154 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 A: Background and accounting policies A1: Nature of operations Prudential plc the Company together with its subsidiaries collectively, the Group or Prudential is an international financial services group with its principal operations in Asia, the US and the UK.
Prudential offers a wide range of retail financial products and services and asset management services throughout these territories.
The retail financial products and services principally include life insurance, pensions and annuities as well as collective investment schemes.
In Asia, the Group has operations in Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and other Asian countries.
The life insurance products offered by the Groups operations in Asia include with-pro ts participating and non-participating term, whole life and endowment and unit-linked policies.
In Asia, unit-linked policies are usually sold with insurance riders such as health covers.
In the US, the Groups principal subsidiary is Jackson National Life Insurance Company Jackson.
The principal products written by Jackson are xed annuities interest-sensitive, xed indexed and immediate annuities, variable annuities VA, life insurance and institutional products.
The Group operates in the UK through its subsidiaries, primarily The Prudential Assurance Company Limited PAC, Prudential Annuities Limited PAL, Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL and M&G Investment Management Limited.
Long-term business products written in the UK are principally with-pro ts deposit administration, other conventional and unitised with-pro ts policies and non-participating pension annuities in the course of payment.
Long-term business written in the UK also includes unit-linked products.
Prudential plc is a public limited company incorporated and registered in England and Wales.
The registered of ce is: Laurence Pountney Hill London EC4R 0HH UK Companies House registered number: 1397169 A2: Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements consolidate the Group and the Groups interest in associates and jointly-controlled entities.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as endorsed by the European Union EU as required by EU law IAS regulation EC 1606 2032.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice GAAP.
These are presented on pages 315 to 323.
A reconciliation to IFRS has also been provided for shareholders equity and pro t for the year of the parent company.
The Group has applied all IFRS standards and interpretations adopted by the EU that are effective for financial years commencing on or before 1 January 2012.
The Group has applied the same accounting policies in preparing the 2012 results as for 2011 except for the adoption of altered US GAAP reporting requirements for Group IFRS reporting, which is described in note A5.
A3: Accounting policies 1 Critical accounting policies Prudentials discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon Prudentials consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and as endorsed by the EU.
EU-endorsed IFRS may differ from IFRS as issued by the IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs have not been endorsed by the EU.
As at 31 December 2012, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the two years ended 31 December 2012 affecting the consolidated financial information of Prudential and there were no differences between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB in terms of their application to Prudential.
Accordingly, Prudentials financial information for the two years ended 31 December 2012 is prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Prudential adopts mandatory requirements of new or altered EU-adopted IFRS standards when required, and may consider earlier adoption where permitted and appropriate in the circumstances.
The preparation of these financial statements requires Prudential to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
On an ongoing basis, Prudential evaluates its estimates, including those related to long-term business provisioning and the fair value of assets.
Critical accounting policies are fide ned as those that are re ective of signi cant judgements and uncertainties, and potentially give rise to different results under different assumptions and conditions.
Prudential believes that its critical accounting policies are limited to those described below.
The critical accounting policies in respect of the items discussed below are critical for those that relate to the Groups shareholdernanced business.
In particular this applies for Jackson which is the largest shareholder-backed business in the Group.
The policies are not critical in respect of the Groups with-pro ts business.
This distinction re ects the basis of recognition of pro t and accounting treatment of unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds as a liability, as described elsewhere in these financial statements.
A: Background and accounting policies Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 155 Insurance contract accounting With the exception of certain contracts described in note D1, the contracts issued by the Groups life assurance business are classi ed as insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participating features.
As permitted by IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts, assets and liabilities of these contracts are accounted for under previously applied GAAP.
Accordingly, except as described below, the modi ed statutory basis MSB of reporting as set out in the revised Statement of Recommended Practice SORP issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI in 2003 has been applied.
A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A With-pro ts funds With-pro ts funds are those in which the policyholder has a contractual right to receive at the discretion of the insurer, additional bene ts based on factors such as the performance of a pool of assets held within the fund as a supplement to any guaranteed bene ts.
A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A UK regulated with-pro ts funds For Group IFRS reporting, UK regulated with-pro ts funds are accounted for by the voluntary application of the UK accounting standard FRS 27, Life Assurance.
Under this standard, for such funds, policyholder liabilities are measured on a realistic basis as discussed in section 2 a of this note.
A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds Unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for the Groups with-pro ts funds that have yet to be appropriated between policyholders and shareholders.
The Group has elected to account for unallocated surplus wholly as a liability with no allocation to equity.
This treatment re ects the fact that shareholders participation in the cost of bonuses arises only on distribution.
The unallocated surplus is shown separately in the statement of financial position.
Overseas operations: For Jackson, applying the MSB as applicable to overseas operations, which permits the application of local GAAP in some circumstances, the assets and liabilities of insurance contracts are accounted for under insurance accounting prescribed by US GAAP.
For the assets and liabilities of insurance contracts of Asian operations, the local GAAP is applied with adjustments, where necessary, to comply with UK GAAP.
For the operations in India, Japan, Taiwan and, until 2012, Vietnam as discussed in note A5, the local GAAP is not appropriate in the context of the previously applied MSB.
For these countries the insurance assets and liabilities are measured principally by reference to US GAAP.
For participating business the liabilities include provisions for the policyholders interest in investment gains and other surpluses that have yet to be declared as bonuses.
The usage of these bases of accounting has varying effects on the way in which product options and guarantees are measured.
For UK regulated with-pro ts funds, options and guarantees are valued on a market consistent basis.
The basis is described in section 2 a below.
For other operations a market consistent basis is not applied under the accounting basis described in section 2 a below.
Details of the guarantees, basis of setting assumptions and sensitivity to altered assumptions are described in notes D3 and D4.
Additional details on the Groups accounting policies for insurance assets and liabilities are shown in section 2 below.
Valuation and accounting presentation of fair value movements of derivatives and debt securities of Jackson These policies are critical because of their signi cance to the volatility of the income statement result and shareholders equity.
Under IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, derivatives are required to be carried at fair value.
Unless net investment hedge accounting is applied, value movements on derivatives are recognised in the income statement.
For derivative instruments of Jackson, the Group has considered whether it is appropriate to undertake the necessary operational changes to qualify for hedge accounting so as to achieve matching of value movements in hedging instruments and hedged items in the performance statements.
In reaching the decision a number of factors were particularly relevant.
These were: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A IAS 39 hedging criteria have been designed primarily in the context of hedging and hedging instruments that are assessable as financial instruments that are either stand-alone or separable from host contracts, rather than, for example, duration characteristics of insurance contracts: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The high hurdle levels under IAS 39 of ensuring hedge effectiveness at the level of individual hedge transactions: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The dif culties in applying the macro hedge provisions under IAS 39 which are more suited to banking arrangements to Jacksons derivative book: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The complexity of asset and liability matching of US life insurers such as those with Jacksons product range: and nally A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Whether it is possible or desirable, without an unacceptable level of costs and constraint on commercial activity, to achieve the accounting hedge effectiveness required under IAS 39.
Taking account of these considerations the Group has decided that, except for occasional circumstances, it is not appropriate to seek to achieve hedge accounting under IAS 39.
As a result of this decision the total income statement results are more volatile as the movements in the value of Jacksons derivatives are re ected within it.
This volatility is re ected in the level of short-term uctuations in investment returns, as shown in note B1.
Under IAS 39, unless carried at amortised cost subject to impairment provisions where appropriate under the held-to-maturity category, debt securities are also carried at fair value.
The Group has chosen not to classify any financial assets as held-to-maturity.
Debt securities of Jackson are designated as available-for-sale with value movements, unless impaired, being recorded as movements within other comprehensive income.
Impairments are recorded in the income statement.
156 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 A: Background and accounting policies continued A3: Accounting policies continued Presentation of results before tax The total tax charge for the Group re ects tax that in addition to relating to shareholders pro ts is also attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds and unit-linked policies.
This is explained in more detail in note F5.
Reported pro t before the total tax charge is not representative of pre-tax pro ts attributable to shareholders.
Accordingly, in order to provide a measure of pre-tax pro ts attributable to shareholders the Group has chosen to adopt an income statement presentation of the tax charge and pre-tax results that distinguishes between policyholder and shareholder components.
Segmental analysis of results and earnings attributable to shareholders The Group uses operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns as the segmental measure of its results.
The basis of calculation is disclosed in section 2 d below.
For shareholder-backed business, with the exception of debt securities held by Jackson and assets classi ed as loans and receivables at amortised cost, all financial investments and investment property are designated as assets at fair value through pro t and loss.
The short-term uctuations affect the result for the year and the Group provides additional analysis of results before and after short-term uctuations in investment returns, together with other items that are of a short-term volatile or one-off nature.
Short-term uctuations in investment returns on such assets held by with-pro ts funds, do not affect directly reported shareholder results.
This is because i the unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds is accounted for as a liability and ii excess or fide cits of income and expenditure of the funds over the required surplus for distribution are transferred to or from unallocated surplus.
2 Other signifi cant accounting policies a Long-term business contracts Income statement treatment Insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participation features DPF Premium and annuity considerations for conventional with-pro ts policies and other protection type insurance policies are recognised as revenue when due.
Premiums and annuity considerations for linked policies, unitised with-pro ts and other investment type policies are recognised as revenue when received or, in the case of unitised or unit-linked policies, when units are issued.
These amounts exclude UK premium taxes and similar duties where Prudential collects and settles taxes borne by the customer.
Policy fees charged on linked and unitised with-pro ts policies for mortality, asset management and policy administration are recognised as revenue when related services are provided.
Claims paid include maturities, annuities, surrenders and deaths.
Maturity claims are recorded as charges on the policy maturity date.
Annuity claims are recorded when each annuity instalment becomes due for payment.
Surrenders are charged to the income statement when paid and death claims are recorded when noti ed.
Acquisition costs are deferred and amortised as described in note A4.
Investment contracts other than those with DPF For investment contracts which do not contain discretionary participating features, the accounting is carried out in accordance with IAS 39 to re ect the deposit nature of the arrangement, with premiums and claims re ected as deposits and withdrawals and taken directly to the statement of financial position as movements in the financial liability balance.
Under IFRS, investment contracts excluding those with discretionary participation features accounted for as financial liabilities in accordance with IAS 39 which also offer investment management services, require the application of IAS 18, Revenue, for the revenue attached to these services.
Incremental, directly attributable acquisition costs relating to the investment management element of these contracts are capitalised and amortised in line with the related revenue.
If the contracts involve up-front charges, this income is also deferred and amortised through the income statement in line with contractual service provision.
UK regulated with-profi ts funds Prudentials long-term business written in the UK comprises predominantly life insurance policies with discretionary participating features under which the policyholders are entitled to participate in the returns of the funds supporting these policies.
Business similar to this type is also written in certain of the Groups Asian operations subject to local market and regulatory conditions.
Such policies are called with-pro ts policies.
Prudential maintains with-pro ts funds within the Groups long-term business funds, which segregate the assets and liabilities and accumulate the returns related to that with-pro ts business.
The amounts accumulated in these with-pro ts funds are available to provide for future policyholder bene t provisions and for bonuses to be distributed to with-pro ts policyholders.
The bonuses, both annual and final, re ect the right of the with-pro ts policyholders to participate in the financial performance of the with-pro ts funds.
Shareholders pro ts with respect to bonuses declared on with-pro ts business correspond to the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses as declared by the Board of directors.
The shareholders share currently represents one-ninth of the cost to the with-pro ts fund of bonuses declared for with-pro ts policies.
Annual bonuses are declared and credited each year to with-pro ts policies.
The annual bonuses increase policy bene ts and, once credited, become guaranteed.
Annual bonuses are charged to the pro t and loss account in the year declared.
Final bonuses are declared each year and accrued for all policies scheduled to mature and for death bene ts expected to be paid during the next financial year.
Final bonuses are not guaranteed and are only paid on policies that result from claims through the death of the policyholder or maturity of the policy within the period of declaration or by concession on surrender.
No policyholder bene t provisions are recorded for future annual or final bonus declarations.
A: Background and accounting policies Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 157 The policyholders liabilities of the regulated with-pro ts funds are accounted for under FRS 27, under which realistic basis liabilities are underpinned by the FSAs Peak 2 basis of reporting.
This Peak 2 basis requires the value of liabilities to be calculated as: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A with-pro ts bene ts reserve WPBR : plus A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Future policy-related liabilities FPRL : plus A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The realistic current liabilities of the fund.
The WPBR is primarily based on the retrospective calculation of accumulated asset shares but is adjusted to re ect future policyholder bene ts and other outgoings.
Asset shares broadly re ect the policyholders share of the with-pro ts fund assets attributable to their policies.
The FPRL must include a market consistent valuation of costs of guarantees, options and smoothing, less any related charges, and this amount is determined using either a stochastic approach, hedging costs or a series of deterministic projections with attributed probabilities.
The assumptions used in the stochastic models are calibrated to produce risk-free returns on each asset class.
Volatilities of, and correlations between, investment returns from different asset classes are as determined by the Groups Portfolio Management Group on a market consistent basis.
The cost of guarantees, options and smoothing is very sensitive to the bonus, market value reduction MVR and investment policies the Group employs and therefore the stochastic modelling incorporates a range of management actions that would help to protect the fund in adverse scenarios.
Substantial exibility has been included in the modelled management actions in order to re ect the discretion that the Group retains in adverse investment conditions, thereby avoiding the creation of unreasonable minimum capital requirements.
The management actions assumed are consistent with managements policy for with-pro ts funds and the disclosures made in the publicly available Principles and Practices of Financial Management.
The realistic basis liabilities representing the Peak 2 basis realistic liabilities for with-pro ts business included in the FSA regulatory returns include the element for the shareholders share of the future bonuses.
For accounting purposes under FRS 27, this latter item is reversed because, consistent with the current basis of financial reporting, shareholder transfers are recognised only on declaration.
Unallocated surplus The unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for the Groups with-pro ts funds.
As allowed under IFRS 4, the Group has opted to continue to record unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds wholly as a liability.
The annual excess shortfall of income over expenditure of the with-pro ts funds, after declaration and attribution of the cost of bonuses to policyholders and shareholders, is transferred to from the unallocated surplus each year through a charge credit to the income statement.
The balance retained in the unallocated surplus represents cumulative income arising on the with-pro ts business that has not been allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
The balance of the unallocated surplus is determined after full provision for deferred tax on unrealised appreciation on investments.
Other insurance contracts ie contracts which contain signifi cant insurance risk as defi ned under IFRS 4 For these contracts grandfathered UK GAAP has been applied, which re ects the MSB.
Under this basis the following approach applies: i Other UK insurance contracts Other UK insurance contracts that contain signi cant insurance risk include unit-linked, annuity and other non-pro t business.
For the purposes of local regulations, segregated accounts are established for linked business for which policyholder bene ts are wholly or partly determined by reference to speci c investments or to an investment-related index.
The interest rates used in establishing policyholder bene t provisions for pension annuities in the course of payment are adjusted each year.
Mortality rates used in establishing policyholder bene ts are based on published mortality tables adjusted to re ect actual experience.
ii Overseas subsidiaries The assets and liabilities of insurance contracts of overseas subsidiaries are determined initially using local GAAP bases of accounting with subsequent adjustments where necessary to comply with the Groups accounting policies.
Jackson The future policyholder bene t provisions for Jacksons conventional protection-type policies are determined under US GAAP principles with the locked in assumptions as to mortality, interest, policy lapses and expenses plus provisions for adverse deviations.
For non-conventional protection-type policies, the policyholder bene t provision included within policyholder liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position is the policyholder account balance.
Acquisition costs are accounted for as explained in note A4.
Jackson accounts for the majority of its investment portfolio on an available-for-sale basis see investment policies above whereby unrealised gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
As permitted by IFRS 4, Jackson has used shadow accounting.
Under shadow accounting, to the extent that recognition of unrealised gains or losses on available-for-sale securities causes adjustments to the carrying value and amortisation patterns of deferred acquisition costs DAC and deferred income, these adjustments are recognised in other comprehensive income to be consistent with the treatment of the gains or losses on the securities.
More precisely, shadow DAC adjustments re ect the change in DAC that would have arisen if the assets held in the statement of financial position had been sold, crystallising unrealised gains or losses, and the proceeds reinvested at the yields currently available in the market.
158 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 A: B ackground and accounting policies continued A3: Accounting policies continued Asia operations Except for the operations in India, Japan, Taiwan and, until 2012, Vietnam, the future policyholder bene t provisions for Asian businesses are determined in accordance with methods prescribed by local GAAP adjusted to comply, where necessary, with UK GAAP.
Re nements to the local reserving methodology are generally treated as change in estimates, dependent on the nature of the change.
For the Asia operations referred to above where local GAAP is not appropriate in the context of the previously applied MSB, accounting for insurance contracts is based on US GAAP.
For these operations the business written is primarily non-participating linked and participating business.
The future policyholder bene t provisions for non-linked business are determined using the net level premium method, with an allowance for surrenders, maintenance and claim expenses.
Rates of interest used in establishing the policyholder bene t provisions vary by operation depending on the circumstances attaching to each block of business.
Where appropriate, liabilities for participating business for these three operations include provisions for the policyholders interest in investment gains and other surpluses that have yet to be declared as bonuses.
Although the basis of valuation of Prudentials overseas operations is in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and ABI SORP, the valuation of policyholder bene t provisions for these businesses may differ from that determined on a UK MSB for UK operations with the same features.
These differences are permitted under IFRS 4.
Liability adequacy The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its insurance provisions to ensure that the carrying amounts of provisions less related DAC and, where relevant, present value of acquired in-force business is suf cient to cover current estimates of future cash ows.
Any fide ciency is immediately charged to the income statement.
Reinsurance The measurement of reinsurance assets is consistent with the measurement of the underlying direct insurance contracts.
The treatment of any gains or losses arising on the purchase of reinsurance contracts is dependent on the underlying accounting basis of the entity concerned amongst other things.
Investment contracts contracts which do not contain signifi cant insurance risk as defi ned under IFRS 4 For investment contracts with discretionary participation features, the accounting basis is consistent with the accounting for similar with-pro ts insurance contracts.
Other investment contracts are accounted for on a basis that re ects the hybrid nature of the arrangements whereby part is accounted for as a financial instrument under IAS 39 and the investment management service component is accounted for under IAS 18, Revenue.
For those investment contracts in the US with xed and guaranteed terms, the Group uses the amortised cost model to measure the liability.
Those investment contracts without xed and guaranteed terms are designated at fair value through pro t and loss because the resulting liabilities are managed and their performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
Where the contract includes a surrender option its carrying value is subject to a minimum carrying value equal to its surrender value.
b Financial instruments other than fi financial instruments classifi ed as long-term business contracts Investment classifi cation Under IAS 39, subject to speci c criteria, financial instruments are required to be accounted for under one of the following categories: financial investments at fair value through pro t and loss, financial investments held on an available-for-sale basis, financial investments held-to-maturity or loans and receivables.
These IAS 39 classi cations have been changed by IFRS 9 Financial Investments: Classi cation and Measurement which is not required to be adopted until 2015 and is still subject to EU endorsement.
In addition, the International Accounting Standards Board IASB continues to consult on future possible changes to IFRS 9.
This standard has not been adopted by the Group in 2012.
The Group holds financial investments on the following bases: i Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through pro t and loss this comprises assets and liabilities designated by management as fair value through pro t and loss on inception and derivatives that are held for trading.
These investments are measured at fair value with all changes thereon being recognised in investment return in the income statement: ii Financial investments on an available-for-sale basis this comprises assets that are designated by management and or do not fall into any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus attributable transaction costs.
For available-for-sale debt securities, the difference between their cost and par value is amortised to the income statement using the effective interest rate.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value.
Interest income is recognised on an effective interest basis in the income statement.
Except for foreign exchange gains and losses on debt securities, not in functional currency, which are included in the income statement, unrealised gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Upon disposal or impairment, accumulated unrealised gains and losses are transferred from other comprehensive income to the income statement as realised gains or losses: and A: Background and accounting policies Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 159 iii Loans and receivables except for those designated as at fair value through pro t and loss or available-for-sale, these instruments comprise non-quoted investments that have xed or determinable payments.
These investments include loans collateralised by mortgages, deposits, loans to policyholders and other unsecured loans and receivables.
These investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Subsequently, these investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
As permitted under IAS 39 the Group has designated certain financial assets as fair value through pro t and loss as these assets are managed and their performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
These assets represent all of the Groups financial assets other than those loans and receivables, carried at amortised cost, and debt securities accounted for on an available-for-sale basis by Jackson.
The use of the fair value option is consistent with the Groups risk management and investment strategies.
The Group uses the trade date method to account for regular purchases and sales of financial assets.
Use of fair values The Group uses current bid prices to value its investments with quoted prices.
Actively traded investments without quoted prices are valued using prices provided by third parties.
If there is no active established market for an investment, the Group applies an appropriate valuation technique such as a discounted cash ow technique.
Additional details are provided in note G1.
Impairments If, in subsequent periods, an impaired debt security held on an available-for-sale basis or an impaired loan or receivable recovers in value in part or in full, and this recovery can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment, then the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through the income statement in part or in full.
Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are used to reduce or manage investment, interest rate and currency exposures, to facilitate ef cient portfolio management and for investment purposes.
The Group may designate certain derivatives as hedges.
For hedges of net investments in foreign operations, the effective portion of any change in fair value of derivatives or other financial instruments designated as net investment hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument is recorded in the income statement.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income while the foreign operation is held.
For fair value hedges, movements in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the income statement.
The Group does not regularly seek to apply fair value or cash ow hedging treatment under IAS 39.
The exceptions, where hedge accounting has been applied in 2012 and 2011, are summarised in note G3.
All derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments are carried at fair value with movements in fair value being recorded in the income statement.
The primary areas of the Groups continuing operations where derivative instruments are held are the UK with-pro ts funds and annuity business, and Jackson.
For UK with-pro ts funds the derivative programme derivatives are used for the purposes of ef cient portfolio management or reduction in investment risk.
For shareholder-backed UK annuity business the derivatives are held to contribute to the matching as far as practical, of asset returns and duration with those of liabilities to policyholders.
The carrying value of these liabilities is sensitive to the return on the matching financial assets including derivatives held.
For Jackson an extensive derivative programme is maintained.
Value movements on the derivatives held can be very signi cant in their effect on shareholder results.
Further details on this aspect of the Groups financial reporting are described in notes B1 and D3.
Embedded derivatives Embedded derivatives are present in host contracts issued by various Group companies, in particular Jackson.
They are embedded within other non-derivative host financial instruments and insurance contracts to create hybrid instruments.
Embedded derivatives meeting the fide nition of an insurance contract are accounted for under IFRS 4.
Where economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivatives are not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host instrument, and where the hybrid instrument is not measured at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised in the income statement, the embedded derivative is bifurcated and carried at fair value as a derivative in accordance with IAS 39.
In addition, the Group applies the option of IFRS 4 to not separate and fair value surrender options embedded in host contracts and with-pro ts investment contracts whose strike price is either a xed amount or a xed amount plus interest.
Further details on the valuation basis for embedded derivatives attaching to Jacksons life assurance contracts are provided in note D3 e. 160 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 A: B ackground and accounting policies continued A3: Accounting policies continued Securities lending including repurchase agreements The Group is party to various securities lending agreements under which securities are loaned to third parties on a short-term basis.
The loaned securities are not derecognised: rather, they continue to be recognised within the appropriate investment classi cation.
The Groups policy is that collateral in excess of 100 per cent of the fair value of securities loaned is required from all securities borrowers and typically consists of cash, debt securities, equity securities or letters of credit.
In cases where the Group takes possession of the collateral under its securities lending programme, the collateral, and corresponding obligation to return such collateral, are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Derecognition of fi financial assets and liabilities The Groups policy is to derecognise financial assets when it is deemed that substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities only when the obligation speci ed in the contract is discharged, cancelled or has expired.
Borrowings Although initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs, borrowings, excluding liabilities of consolidated collateralised debt obligations, are subsequently accounted for on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest method.
Under the effective interest method, the difference between the redemption value of the borrowing and the initial proceeds net of related issue costs is amortised through the income statement to the date of maturity or for hybrid debt, over the expected life of the instrument.
Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profi t and loss Consistent with the Groups risk management and investment strategy and the nature of the products concerned, the Group has designated under IAS 39 classi cation certain financial liabilities at fair value through pro t and loss as these instruments are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis.
These instruments include liabilities related to consolidated collateralised debt obligations and net assets attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds.
c Other assets, liabilities, income and expenditure Basis of consolidation The Group consolidates those entities it is deemed to control.
The degree of control is determined by the ability of the Group to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain bene ts.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date control commences to the date control ceases.
All inter-company transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
Results of asset management activities include those for managing internal funds.
The Group holds investments in internally and externally managed open-ended investment companies OEICs and unit trusts.
These are consolidated where the Groups percentage ownership level is i 50 per cent or greater, and ii where the Groups ownership of internally managed funds declines marginally below 50 per cent and the decline in ownership is expected to be temporary.
Where the Group exercises signi cant in uence or has the power to exercise signi cant in uence over an entity, generally through ownership of 20 per cent or more of the entitys voting rights, but does not control the entity, then this is considered to be an investment in an associate.
With the exception of those referred to below, the Groups investments in associates are recorded at the Groups share of the associates net assets including any goodwill and intangibles arising upon initial acquisition.
The carrying value of investments in associates is adjusted each year for the Groups share of the entities pro t or loss.
This does not apply to investments in associates held by the Groups insurance or investment funds including the venture capital business or mutual funds and unit trusts, which as permitted by IAS 28, Investments in Associates, are carried at fair value through pro t and loss.
The Groups investments in joint ventures are recognised using proportional consolidation whereby the Groups share of an entitys individual balances are combined line-by-line with similar items into the Group financial statements.
Other interests in entities, where signi cant in uence is not exercised, are carried as investments at fair value through pro t and loss.
Investment properties Investments in leasehold and freehold properties not for occupation by the Group, including properties under development for future use as investment properties, are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value included in the income statement.
Properties are valued annually either by the Groups quali ed surveyors or by taking into consideration the advice of professional external valuers using the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors guidelines.
Each property is externally valued at least once every three years.
Fair value is based on active market prices.
If this information is not available, the Group uses alternative valuation methods such as discounted cash ow projections or recent prices in less active markets.
Leases of investment property where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classi ed as finance leases leasehold property.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
A: Background and accounting policies Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 161 Pension schemes For the Groups fide ned bene t schemes, if the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation exceeds the fair value of the scheme assets, then a liability is recorded in the Groups statement of financial position.
By contrast, if the fair value of the assets exceeds the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation then the surplus will only be recognised if the nature of the arrangements under the trust deed, and funding arrangements between the Trustee and the Company support the availability of refunds or recoverability through agreed reductions in future contributions.
In addition, if there is a constructive obligation for the Company to pay fide cit funding, this is also recognised such that the financial position recorded for the scheme re ects the higher of any underlying IAS 19, Employee Bene ts, fide cit and the obligation for fide cit funding.
The Group utilises the projected unit credit method to calculate the fide ned bene t obligation.
This method sees each period of service as giving rise to an additional unit of bene t entitlement and measures each unit separately to build up the final obligation.
Estimated future cash ows are then discounted at a high-quality corporate bond rate, adjusted to allow for the difference in duration between the bond index and the pension liabilities where appropriate, to determine its present value.
These calculations are performed by independent actuaries.
The plan assets of the Groups pension schemes exclude several insurance contracts that have been issued by the Group.
These assets are excluded from plan assets in determining the pension obligation recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The aggregate of the actuarially determined service costs of the currently employed personnel and the unwind of discount on liabilities at the start of the period, less the expected investment return on scheme assets at the start of the period, is charged to the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses as a result of changes in assumptions or experience variances are also charged or credited to the income statement.
Contributions to the Groups fide ned contribution schemes are expensed when due.
Share-based payments The Group offers share award and option plans for certain key employees and a Save As You Earn plan for all UK and certain overseas employees.
Shares held in trust relating to these plans are conditionally gifted to employees.
The compensation expense charged to the income statement is primarily based upon the fair value of the options granted, the vesting period and the vesting conditions.
The Company has established trusts to facilitate the delivery of Prudential plc shares under employee incentive plans and savings-related share option schemes.
The cost to the Company of acquiring these treasury shares held in trusts is shown as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Tax Current tax expense is charged or credited to operations based upon amounts estimated to be payable or recoverable as a result of taxable operations for the current year.
To the extent that losses of an individual UK company are not offset in any one year, they can be carried back for one year or carried forward inde nitely to be offset against pro ts arising from the same company.
Deferred taxes are provided under the liability method for all relevant temporary differences.
IAS 12, Income Taxes does not require all temporary differences to be provided for, in particular, the Group does not provide for deferred tax on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the timing of the distribution and the temporary difference created is not expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised when it is more likely than not, that future taxable pro ts will be available against which these losses can be utilised.
The tax charge for long-term business includes tax expense attributable to both the policyholders and the shareholders.
Different tax rules apply under UK law depending upon whether the business is life insurance or pension business.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or are substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Business acquisitions and disposals Business acquisitions are accounted for by applying the purchase method of accounting, which adjusts the net assets of the acquired company to fair value at the date of purchase.
The excess of the acquisition consideration over the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the acquired entity is recorded as goodwill.
Expenses related to acquiring new subsidiaries are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
Income and expenses of acquired entities are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses is capitalised and carried on the Group statement of financial position as an intangible asset at initial value less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill impairment testing is conducted annually and when there is an indication of impairment.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired on the purchase of a subsidiary or portfolio of contracts are fair valued at acquisition.
Other intangible assets, such as software, are valued at the price paid to acquire them.
Intangible assets are carried at cost less amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation calculated is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets.
162 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 A: B ackground and accounting policies continued A3: Accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other short-term highly liquid investments with less than 90 days maturity from the date of acquisition.
Segments Under IFRS 8, Operating Segments, the Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that is internally provided to the Group Executive Committee which is the Groups chief operating decision maker.
The operating segments identi ed by the Group re ect the Groups organisational structure, which is by both geography Asia, US and UK and by product line insurance operations and asset management.
Insurance operations principally comprise of products that contain both signi cant and insigni cant elements of insurance risk.
The products are managed together and there is no distinction between these two categories other than for accounting purposes.
This segment also includes the commission earned on general insurance business and investment subsidiaries held to support the Groups insurance operations.
Asset management comprises both internal and third-party asset management services, inclusive of portfolio and mutual fund management, where the Group acts as an advisor, and broker-dealer activities.
The nature of the products and the managing of the business differ from the risks inherent in the insurance operations segments, and the regulatory environment of the asset management industry differs from that of the insurance operations segments.
The Groups operating segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8, Operating Segments, are as follows: Insurance operations A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Asia A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A US Jackson A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A UK Asset management operations A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A M&G including Prudential Capital A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Eastspring Investments A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A US broker-dealer and asset management including Curian The Groups operating segments are also its reportable segments with the exception of Prudential Capital PruCap which has been incorporated into the M&G operating segment for the purposes of segment reporting.
The performance measure of operating segments utilised by the Company is IFRS operating pro t attributable to shareholders based on longer-term investment returns, as described below.
This measure excludes the recurrent items of short-term uctuations in investment returns and the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on fide ned bene t pension schemes.
In addition for 2012 this measure excluded a gain arising upon the dilution of the Groups holding in PPM South Africa and the amortisation of the acquisition accounting adjustments arising on the purchase of REALIC as described further in note I1.
Operating earnings per share is based on operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns, after tax and non-controlling interests.
Further details on the determination of the performance measure of operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns is provided below.
Segment results that are reported to the Group Executive Committee include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items are mainly in relation to the Group Head Of ce and the Asia Regional Head Of ce.
d Operating profi t based on longer-term investment returns The Group provides supplementary analysis of pro t before tax attributable to shareholders that distinguishes operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns from other constituent elements of the total pro t. Except in the case of the assets backing the UK annuity business, unit-linked and US variable annuity separate account liabilities, operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns for shareholdernanced business is determined on the basis of expected longer-term investment returns.
In the case of assets backing the UK annuity business, unit-linked and US variable annuity separate account liabilities, the basis of determining operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns is as follows: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Assets backing UK annuity business liabilities.
For UK annuity business, policyholder liabilities are determined by reference to current interest rates.
The value movements of the assets covering liabilities are closely correlated with the related change in liabilities.
Accordingly, asset value movements are recorded within the operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
Policyholder liabilities include a margin for credit risk.
Variations between actual and best estimate expected impairments are recorded as a component of short-term uctuations in investment returns: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Assets backing unit-linked and US variable annuity business separate account liabilities.
For such business, the policyholder unit liabilities are directly re ective of the asset value movements.
Accordingly, the operating results based on longer-term investment returns re ect the current period value movements in unit liabilities and the backing assets.
A: Background and accounting policies Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 163 In the case of other shareholdernanced business, the measurement of operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns re ects the particular features of long-term insurance business where assets and liabilities are held for the long term and for which the accounting basis for insurance liabilities under current IFRS is not generally conducive to demonstrating trends in underlying performance of life businesses exclusive of the effects of short-term uctuations in market conditions.
In determining the pro t on this basis, the following key elements are applied to the results of the Groups shareholdernanced operations as re ected in the segment results shown in note B1.
i Debt, equity-type securities and loans Longer-term investment returns for both debt, equity-type securities and loans comprise longer-term actual income receivable for the period interest dividend income and longer-term capital returns.
In principle, for debt securities and loans, the longer-term capital returns comprise two elements.
The first element is a risk margin reserve RMR based charge for the expected level of defaults for the period, which is determined by reference to the credit quality of the portfolio.
The difference between impairment losses in the reporting period and the RMR charge to the operating result is re ected in short-term uctuations in investment returns.
The second element is for the amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses to operating results based on longer-term investment returns to the date when sold bonds would have otherwise matured.
Jackson is the shareholder-backed operation for which the distinction between impairment losses and interest-related realised gains and losses is in practice relevant to a signi cant extent.
Jackson has used the ratings by Nationally Recognised Statistical Ratings Organisations NRSRO or ratings resulting from the regulatory ratings detail issued by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC developed by external third parties such as PIMCO or BlackRock Solutions to determine the average annual RMR to apply to debt securities held to back general account business.
Debt securities held to back separate account and reinsurance funds withheld are not subject to RMR charge.
Further details of the RMR charge, as well as the amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses, for Jackson are shown in note B1 iv to the consolidated financial statements.
For debt securities backing non-linked shareholdernanced business of the UK insurance operations other than the annuity business and of the Asia insurance operations, the realised gains and losses are principally interest related.
Accordingly, all realised gains and losses to date for these operations are being amortised over the period to the date those securities would otherwise have matured, with no explicit RMR charge.
At 31 December 2012, the level of unamortised interest-related realised gains and losses related to previously sold bonds for the Group was a net gain of 498 million 31 December 2011: 462 million.
For equity-type securities, the longer-term rates of return are estimates of the long-term trend investment return for income and capital having regard to past performance, current trends and future expectations.
Equity-type securities held for shareholdernanced operations other than the UK annuity business, unit-linked and US variable annuity are of signi cance for the US and Asia insurance operations.
Different rates apply to different categories of equity-type securities.
As at 31 December 2012, the equity-type securities for US insurance non-separate account operations amounted to 1,004 million 31 December 2011: 902 million.
For these operations, the longer-term rates of return for income and capital applied in 2012 re ects the combination of risk free rates and appropriate risk premium are as follows: 2012 2011 Equity-type securities such as common and preferred stock and portfolio holdings in mutual funds 5.5% to 6.2% 5.9% to 7.5% Other equity-type securities such as investments in limited partnerships and private equity funds 7.5% to 8.2% 7.9% to 9.5% For Asia insurance operations, investments in equity securities held for non-linked shareholdernanced operations amounted to 659 million as at 31 December 2012 31 December 2011: 590 million.
The rates of return applied in the years 2012 and 2011 ranged from 1.0 per cent to 13.8 per cent, with the rates applied varying by territory.
The investment amounts for 2011 of 590 million included the Groups investment in China Life Insurance Company of Taiwan China Life Taiwan of 88 million which was sold in 2012, as described in note B1.
The longer-term rates of return discussed above for equity-type securities are determined after consideration by the Groups in-house economists of long-term expected real government bond returns, equity risk premium and long-term in ation.
These rates are broadly stable from period to period but may be different between countries re ecting, for example, differing expectations of in ation in each territory.
The assumptions are for returns expected to apply in equilibrium conditions.
The assumed rates of return do not re ect any cyclical variability in economic performance and are not set by reference to prevailing asset valuations.
164 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 A: B ackground and accounting policies continued A3: Accounting policies continued ii US variable and xed index annuity business The following value movements for Jacksons variable and xed index annuity business are excluded from operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Fair value movements for equity-based derivatives: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Fair value movements for embedded derivatives for Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Bene t GMWB not for life and xed index annuity business, and Guaranteed Minimum Income Bene t GMIB reinsurance see note : A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Movements in accounts carrying value of Guaranteed Minimum Death Bene t GMDB and GMWB for life liabilities, for which, under the grandfathered US GAAP applied under IFRS for Jacksons insurance assets and liabilities, the measurement basis gives rise to a muted impact of current period market movements: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Fee assessments and claim payments, in respect of guarantee liabilities: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Related changes to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs for each of the above items.
Note: US operations embedded derivatives for variable annuity guarantee features The GMIB liability, which is fully reinsured, subject to a deductible and annual claim limits, is accounted for in accordance with FASB ASC Subtopic 944-80 Financial Services Insurance Separate Accounts formerly SOP 03-1 under IFRS using grandfathered US GAAP.
As the corresponding reinsurance asset is net settled, it is considered to be a derivative under IAS 39, and the asset is therefore recognised at fair value.
As the GMIB bene t is economically reinsured the mark to market element of the reinsurance asset is included as a component of short-term uctuations in investment returns.
iii Other derivative value movements Generally, derivative value movements are excluded from operating results based on longer-term investment returns unless those derivative value movements broadly offset changes in the accounting value of other assets and liabilities included in operating pro t. The principal example of non-equity based derivatives for example interest rate swaps and swaptions whose value movements are excluded from operating pro t arises in Jackson.
Non-equity based derivatives are primarily held by Jackson as part of a broadly based hedging programme for features of Jacksons bond portfolio for which value movements are booked in the statement of comprehensive income rather than the income statement, product liabilities for which US GAAP accounting as grandfathered under IFRS 4 does not fully re ect the economic features being hedged, and the interest rate exposure attaching to equity-based embedded derivatives.
iv Other liabilities to policyholders and embedded derivatives for product guarantees Under IFRS, the degree to which the carrying values of liabilities to policyholders are sensitive to current market conditions varies between territories depending upon the nature of the grandfathered measurement basis.
In general, in those instances where the liabilities are particularly sensitive to routine changes in market conditions, the accounting basis is such that the impact of market movements on the assets and liabilities is broadly equivalent in the income statement, and operating pro t based on longer-term investments returns is not distorted.
In these circumstances, there is no need for the movement in the liability to be bifurcated between the elements that relate to longer-term market conditions and short-term effects.
However, some types of business movements in liabilities do require bifurcation to ensure that at the net level ie after allocated investment return and change for policyholder bene ts the operating result re ects longer-term market returns.
Examples where such bifurcation is necessary are: Asia i Hong Kong For certain non-participating business, the economic features are more akin to asset management products with policyholder liabilities re ecting asset shares over the contract term.
For these products, the charge for policyholder bene ts in the operating results should re ect the asset share feature rather than volatile movements that would otherwise be re ected if the local regulatory basis which is applied for IFRS balance sheet purposes was used.
For other Hong Kong non-participating business, longer-term interest rates are used to determine the movement in policyholder liabilities for determining operating results.
Similar principles apply for other Asia operations: ii Japan Guaranteed Minimum Death Bene t GMDB product features For unhedged GMDB liabilities accounted for under IFRS using grandfathered US GAAP, such as in the Japanese business, the change in carrying value is determined under FASB ASC subtopic 944-80, Financial Services Insurance Separate Accounts formerly SOP 03-1, which partially re ects changes in market conditions.
Under the Companys segmental basis of reporting the operating pro t re ects the change in liability based on longer-term market conditions with the difference between the charge to the operating result and the movement re ected in the total result included in short-term uctuations in investment returns: A: Background and accounting policies Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 165 UK shareholder-backed annuity business The operating result based on longer-term investment returns re ects the impact of value movements on policyholder liabilities for annuity business in PRIL and the PAC non-pro t sub-fund after adjustments to allocate the following elements of the movement to the category of short-term uctuations in investment returns in the Groups supplementary analysis of pro t: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The impact on credit risk provisioning of actual upgrades and downgrades during the period: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Credit experience compared to assumptions: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Short-term value movements on assets backing the capital of the business.
Credit experience re ects the impact of defaults and other similar experience, such as asset exchanges arising from debt restructuring by issuers that include effectively an element of permanent impairment of the security held.
Negative experience compared to assumptions is included within short-term uctuations in investment returns without further adjustment.
This is to be contrasted with positive experience where surpluses are retained in short-term allowances for credit risk for IFRS reporting purposes.
The effects of other changes to credit risk provisioning are included in the operating result, as is the net effect of changes to the valuation rate of interest due to portfolio rebalancing to align more closely with management benchmark.
v Fund management and other non-insurance businesses For these businesses, the particular features applicable for life assurance noted above do not apply.
For these businesses it is inappropriate to include returns in the operating result on the basis described above.
Instead, it is appropriate to generally include realised gains and losses including impairments in the operating result with unrealised gains and losses being included in short-term uctuations in investment returns.
For this purpose impairments are calculated as the credit loss determined by comparing the projected cash ows discounted at the original effective interest rate to the carrying value.
In some instances it may also be appropriate to amortise realised gains and losses on derivatives and other financial instruments to operating results over a time period that re ects the underlying economic substance of the arrangements.
Shareholders dividends Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends are recorded in the period in which they are approved by shareholders.
Share capital Where there is no obligation to transfer assets, shares are classi ed as equity.
The difference between the proceeds received on issue of the shares, net of share issue costs, and the nominal value of the shares issued, is credited to share premium.
Where the Company purchases shares for the purposes of employee incentive plans, the consideration paid, net of issue costs, is deducted from retained earnings.
Upon issue or sale any consideration received is credited to retained earnings net of related costs.
Foreign exchange The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the Groups presentation currency.
Accordingly, the results and financial position of foreign subsidiaries must be translated into the presentation currency of the Group from their functional currencies, ie the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
All assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are converted at year end exchange rates whilst all income and expenses are converted at average exchange rates where this is a reasonable approximation of the rates prevailing on transaction dates.
The impact of these currency translations is recorded as a separate component in the statement of comprehensive income.
Foreign currency borrowings that are used to provide a hedge against Group equity investments in overseas subsidiaries are translated at year end exchange rates and movements recognised in other comprehensive income.
Other foreign currency monetary items are translated at year end exchange rates with changes recognised in the income statement.
Foreign currency transactions are translated at the spot rate prevailing at the time.
166 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 A: B ackground and accounting policies continued A4: Critical accounting estimates and judgements In determining the measurement of the Groups assets and liabilities estimates and judgements are required.
The critical aspects are described below.
Investments Determining the fair value of fi financial investments when the markets are not active The Group holds certain financial investments for which the markets are not active.
These can include financial investments which are not quoted on active markets and financial investments for which markets are no longer active as a result of market conditions eg market illiquidity.
When the markets are not active, there is generally no or limited observable market data to account for financial investments at fair value.
The determination of whether an active market exists for a financial investment requires managements judgement.
If the market for a financial investment of the Group is not active, the fair value is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group establishes fair value for these financial investments by using quotations from independent third parties, such as brokers or pricing services or by using internally developed pricing models.
Priority is given to publicly available prices from independent sources when available, but overall the source of pricing and or the valuation technique is chosen with the objective of arriving at a fair value measurement which re ects the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants on the measurement date.
The valuation techniques include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash ow analysis, option adjusted spread models and, if applicable, enterprise valuation and may include a number of assumptions relating to variables such as credit risk and interest rates.
Changes in assumptions relating to these variables could positively or negatively impact the reported fair value of these financial investments.
The financial investments measured at fair value are classi ed into the following three level hierarchy on the basis of the lowest level of inputs that is signi cant to the fair value measurement of the financial investment concerned: Level 1: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets and liabilities: Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable either directly or indirectly ie derived from prices : and Level 3: Signi cant inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
At 31 December 2012, 6,660 million 2011: 4,565 million of the financial investments net of derivative liabilities valued at fair value were classi ed as level 3.
Of these 861 million 2011: 800 million are held to back shareholder non-linked business and so changes to these valuations will directly impact shareholders equity.
Further details of the level 3 investments and the classi cation of financial instruments are given in note G1.
Determining impairments relating to fi financial assets i Available-for-sale securities The majority of Jacksons debt securities portfolio are accounted for on available-for-sale basis.
The consideration of evidence of impairment requires managements judgement.
In making this determination the factors considered include, for example: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Whether the decline of the financial investments fair value is substantial: a substantial decline in fair value might be indicative of a credit loss event that would lead to a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash ows: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The impact of the duration of the security on the calculation of the revised estimated cash ows: the duration of a security to maturity helps to inform whether assessments of estimated future cash ows that are higher than market value are reasonable: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The duration and extent to which the amortised cost exceeds fair value: this factor provides an indication of how the contractual cash ows and effective interest rate of a financial asset compares with the implicit market estimate of cash ows and the risk attaching to a fair value measurement.
The length of time for which that level of difference has been in place may also provide further evidence as to whether the market assessment implies an impairment loss has arisen: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The financial condition and prospects of the issuer or other observable conditions that indicate the investment may be impaired.
If a loss event that will have a detrimental effect on cash ows is identi ed an impairment loss in the income statement is recognised.
The loss recognised is determined as the difference between the book cost and the fair value of the relevant impaired securities.
This loss comprises the effect of the expected loss of contractual cash ows and any additional market-price-driven temporary reductions in values.
A: Background and accounting policies Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 167 For Jacksons residential mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, all of which are classi ed as available-for-sale, the model used to analyse cash ows begins with the current delinquency experience of the underlying collateral pool for the structure, by applying assumptions about how much of the currently delinquent loans will eventually default, and multiplying this by an assumed loss severity.
Additional factors are applied to anticipate ageing effects.
After applying a cash ow simulation an indication is obtained as to whether or not the security has suffered, or is anticipated to suffer, contractual principal or interest payment shortfalls.
If a shortfall applies an impairment charge is recorded.
The difference between the fair value and book cost for unimpaired securities designated as available-for-sale, is accounted for as unrealised gains or losses, with the movements in the accounting period being included in other comprehensive income.
The Groups review of fair value involves several criteria, including economic conditions, credit loss experience, other issuer-speci c developments and future cash ows.
These assessments are based on the best available information at the time.
Factors such as market liquidity, the widening of bid ask spreads and a change in cash ow assumptions can contribute to future price volatility.
If actual experience differs negatively from the assumptions and other considerations used in the consolidated financial statements, unrealised losses currently in equity may be recognised in the income statement in future periods.
Additional details on the impairments of the available-for-sale securities of Jackson are described in notes D3 and G5.
ii Assets held at amortised cost Except for certain loans of the UK insurance operations and Jackson National Life, which are accounted for on a fair value through pro t and loss basis, and as described below, financial assets classi ed as loans and receivables under IAS 39 are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The loans and receivables include loans collateralised by mortgages, deposits and loans to policyholders.
In estimating future cash ows, the Group looks at the expected cash ows of the assets and applies historical loss experience of assets with similar credit risks that has been adjusted for conditions in the historical loss experience which no longer exist or for conditions that are expected to arise.
The estimated future cash ows are discounted using the financial assets original or variable effective interest rate and exclude credit losses that have not yet been incurred.
The risks inherent in reviewing the impairment of any investment include: the risk that market results may differ from expectations, facts and circumstances may change in the future and differ from estimates and assumptions, or the Group may later decide to sell the asset as a result of changed circumstances.
Certain mortgage loans of the UK insurance operations and, consequent upon the purchase of REALIC in 2012, policy loans held to back funds withheld under reinsurance arrangements have been designated at fair value through pro t and loss as these loan portfolios are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis.
Insurance contracts Product classifi cation IFRS 4 requires contracts written by insurers to be classi ed as either insurance contracts or investment contracts depending on the level of insurance risk transferred.
Insurance risk is a pre-existing risk, other than financial risk, transferred from the contract holder to the contract issuer.
If signi cant insurance risk is transferred by the contract then it is classi ed as an insurance contract.
Contracts that transfer financial risk but not signi cant insurance risk are termed investment contracts.
Furthermore, some contracts, both insurance and investment, contain discretionary participating features representing the contractual right to receive additional bene ts as a supplement to guaranteed bene ts: a That are likely to be a signi cant portion of the total contract bene ts: b Whose amount or timing is contractually at the discretion of the insurer: and c That are contractually based on asset or fund performance, as discussed in IFRS 4.
IFRS 4 permits the continued usage of previously applied GAAP for insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participating features.
Except for UK regulated with-pro ts funds, as described subsequently in section A3 2 a, this basis has been applied by the Group.
For investment contracts that do not contain discretionary participating features, IAS 39 and, where the contract includes an investment management element, IAS 18, Revenue, apply measurement principles to assets and liabilities attaching to the contract.
Valuation assumptions i Contracts of with-profi ts funds For UK regulated with-pro ts funds, the contract liabilities are valued by reference to the UK Financial Services Authoritys FSA realistic basis as described in section A3 2 a.
This basis has the effect of placing a value on the liabilities of UK with-pro ts contracts, which re ects the amounts expected to be paid based on the current value of investments held by the with-pro ts funds and current circumstances.
An explanation of the basis of liability measurement is contained in section A3 2 a.
The Groups other with-pro ts contracts are written in with-pro ts funds that operate in some of the Groups Asian subsidiaries.
The liabilities for these contracts and those of Prudential Annuities Limited, which is a subsidiary company of the PAC with-pro ts fund, are determined differently.
For these contracts the liabilities are estimated using actuarial methods based on assumptions relating to premiums, interest rates, investment returns, expenses, mortality and surrenders.
The assumptions to which the estimation of these reserves is particularly sensitive are the interest rate used to discount the provision and the assumed future mortality experience of policyholders.
168 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 A: B ackground and accounting policies continued A4: Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued ii Other contracts Contracts, other than those of with-pro ts funds, are written by shareholder-backed operations of the Group.
The signi cant shareholder-backed product groupings and the factors that may signi cantly affect IFRS results due to experience against assumptions or changes of assumptions vary signi cantly between business units.
For some types of business the effect of changes in assumptions may be signi cant, whilst for others, due to the nature of the product, assumption setting may be of less signi cance.
The nature of the products and the signi cance of assumptions are discussed in notes D2, D3 and D4.
UK insurance operations From the perspective of shareholder results the key sensitivity for UK insurance operations are the assumptions for allowance for credit risk and mortality for UK annuity business.
Jackson With the exception of institutional products and an incidental amount of business for annuity certain contracts, which are accounted for as investment contracts under IAS 39, all of Jacksons contracts are accounted for under IFRS 4 as insurance contracts by applying US GAAP, the previous GAAP used before IFRS adoption.
The accounting requirements under these standards and the effect of changes in valuation assumptions are considered below for xed annuity, variable annuity and traditional life insurance contracts.
Fixed annuity contracts, which are investment contracts under US GAAP terminology, are accounted for by applying in the first instance a retrospective deposit method to determine the liability for policyholder bene ts.
This is then augmented by potentially three additional amounts, namely deferred income, any amounts previously assessed against policyholders that are refundable on termination of the contract, and any premium fide ciency, ie any probable future loss on the contract.
These types of contracts contain considerable interest rate guarantee features.
Notwithstanding the accompanying market risk exposure, except in the circumstances of interest rate scenarios where the guarantee rates included in contract terms are higher than crediting rates that can be supported from assets held to cover liabilities, the accounting measurement of Jacksons xed annuity products is not generally sensitive to interest rate risk.
This position derives from the nature of the products and the US GAAP basis of measurement.
Variable annuity contracts written by Jackson may provide for guaranteed minimum death, income or withdrawal bene t features.
In general terms, liabilities for these bene ts are accounted for under US GAAP by using estimates of future bene ts and fees under best estimate assumptions.
For traditional life insurance contracts, provisions for future policy bene ts are determined using assumptions as of the issue date as to mortality, interest, policy lapses and expenses plus provisions for adverse deviation.
Except to the extent of mortality experience, which primarily affects pro ts through variations in claim payments and the guaranteed minimum death bene t reserves, the pro ts of Jackson are relatively insensitive to changes in insurance risk.
This re ects the principally spread and fee-based nature of Jacksons business.
Asia operations The insurance products written in the Groups Asia operations principally cover with-pro ts business, unit-linked business and other non-participating business.
The results of with-pro ts business are relatively insensitive to changes in estimates and assumptions that affect the measurement of policyholder liabilities.
As for the UK business, this feature arises because unallocated surplus is accounted for by the Group as a liability.
The results of Asia unit-linked business are also relatively insensitive to changes in estimates or assumptions due to the matching of asset value and liability movements.
For other Asia non-participating business the degree of sensitivity of results to changes in interest rates depends upon the degree to which the liabilities under the grandfathered IFRS 4 measurement basis re ects market interest rates from period to period for example, for those countries, such as those applying US GAAP, the results can be more sensitive as the effect of interest rate movements on the backing investments may not be offset by liability movements due to the US GAAP basis of measurement of insurance contracts.
A: Background and accounting policies Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 169 Deferred acquisition costs for insurance contracts Except for acquisition costs of with-pro ts contracts of the UK regulated with-pro ts funds, which are accounted for under the realistic FSA regime, costs of acquiring new insurance business are accounted for in a way that is consistent with the principles of the ABI SORP with deferral and amortisation against margins in future revenues on the related insurance policies.
Costs of acquiring new insurance business, principally commissions, marketing and advertising and certain other costs associated with policy insurance and underwriting that are not reimbursed by policy charges, are speci cally identi ed and capitalised as part of deferred acquisition costs DAC.
In general, this deferral is presentationally shown by an explicit carrying value for DAC in the balance sheet.
However, in some Asia operations the deferral is implicit through the reserving methodology.
The recoverability of the explicitly and implicitly deferred acquisition costs is measured and are deemed impaired if the projected margins are less than the carrying value.
To the extent that the future margins differ from those anticipated, then an adjustment to the carrying value will be necessary.
For UK regulated with-pro ts funds where the realistic FSA regime is applied, the basis of setting liabilities is such that it would be inappropriate for acquisition costs to be deferred, therefore these costs are expensed as incurred.
The majority of the UK shareholder-backed business is individual and group annuity business where the incidence of acquisition costs is negligible.
The deferral and amortisation of acquisition costs is of most relevance to the Groups results for Jackson and Asia operations.
The DAC for Jackson and some Asia operations is determined with reference to US GAAP principles.
Jackson Under IFRS 4, the Group applies grandfathered US GAAP for measuring the insurance assets and liabilities of Jackson.
In the case of Jackson term business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected pro ts.
For interest-sensitive business, the key assumption is the long-term spread between the earned rate on investments and the rate credited to policyholders, which is based on an annual spread analysis.
In addition, expected gross pro ts depend on mortality assumptions, assumed unit costs and terminations other than deaths including the related charges, all of which are based on a combination of Jacksons actual industry experience and future expectations.
A detailed analysis of actual mortality, lapse and expenses experience is performed using internally developed experience studies.
For US variable annuity business the key assumption is the investment return from the separate accounts, which for 2012 and 2011 was 8.4 per cent per annum after deduction of external fund management fees determined using a mean reversion methodology.
Under the mean reversion methodology, projected returns over the next five years are exed subject to capping so that, combined with the actual rates of return for the current and the previous two years the 8.4 per cent rate is maintained.
The projected rates of return are capped at no more than 15 per cent for each of the next five years.
Further details are explained in note D3 e. These returns affect the level of future expected pro ts through their effects on the fee income with consequential impact on the amortisation of DAC.
The level of acquisition costs carried in the statement of financial position is also sensitive to unrealised valuation movements on debt securities held to back the liabilities and solvency capital.
Further details are explained in notes D3 e and H1.
As explained in note A5, the Group has adopted the US Financial Accounting Standards Board measurement and recognition requirements in Accounting Standards update No 2010-26 on Accounting for Costs Associated with Acquiring or Renewing Insurance Contracts the Update from 1 January 2012 into its IFRS reporting for the results of Jackson and those Asia operations whose IFRS insurance assets and liabilities are measured principally by reference to US GAAP principles.
Under the Update insurers are required to capitalise only those incremental costs directly relating to acquiring a contract from 1 January 2012.
For Group IFRS reporting Prudential has chosen to apply this new basis retrospectively for the results of these operations.
On adoption of the new DAC policy for Jackson the deferred costs balance for business in force at 31 December 2011 was retrospectively reduced from 3,880 million to 3,095 million 31 December 2010: DAC balance reduced from 3,543 million to 2,829 million.
Asia operations For those territories applying US GAAP to insurance assets and liabilities, as permitted by the ABI SORP, principles similar to those set out in the Jackson paragraph above are applied to the deferral and amortisation of acquisition costs.
For other territories in Asia, the general principles of the ABI SORP are applied with, as described above, deferral of acquisition costs being either explicit or implicit through the reserving basis.
170 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 A: B ackground and accounting policies continued A5: New accounting pronouncements The following standards, interpretations and amendments have either been adopted for the first time in 2012 or have been issued but are not yet effective in 2012, including those which have not yet been adopted in the EU.
This is not intended to be a complete list as only those standards, interpretations and amendments that could have an impact upon the Groups financial statements have been discussed.
a Accounting pronouncements adopted in 2012 Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures Transfers of fi financial assets The amendments introduce new disclosure requirements about transfers of financial assets which include disclosures for financial assets that are not derecognised in their entirety and financial assets that are derecognised in their entirety but for which the entity retains continuing involvement.
The adoption of these amendments did not have a signi cant impact on the Groups disclosures.
Amendments to IAS 12, Income taxes These amendments require the measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities arising from investment properties and plant, property and equipment valued at fair value on the presumption that the carrying amount of the asset will be, normally, recovered through sale.
The adoption of these amendments did not have a material effect on the Groups financial statements.
b Adoption of updated US GAAP reporting requirements for Group IFRS reporting in 2012 Background In October 2010, the Emerging Issues Task Force of the US Financial Accounting Standards Board issued update No 2010-26 on Accounting for Costs Associated with Acquiring or Renewing Insurance Contracts the Update.
The Update was issued to address perceived diversity in practices by companies preparing financial statements in accordance with US GAAP as regards the types of acquisition costs being deferred.
Under US GAAP, costs that can be deferred and amortised are those that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of insurance contracts.
The Update requires insurers to capitalise only those incremental costs directly relating to acquiring a contract for financial statements for reporting periods beginning after 15 December 2011.
All other indirect acquisition expenses are required to be charged to the income statements as incurred expenses.
Accordingly, the main impact of the Update is to disallow insurers from deferring costs that are not directly related to successful sales.
The Groups IFRS accounting policies include that under IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts, insurance assets and liabilities other than those for UK regulated with-pro ts funds, are measured using the GAAP basis applied prior to IFRS adoption in 2005.
On this basis insurance assets and liabilities are measured under the UK Modi ed Statutory Basis MSB which was codi ed by the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP on accounting for insurance business issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI in 2003.
The SORP also permits the use of local GAAP subject to the requirement for adjustments to be made to ensure suf cient consistency of measurement under the UK GAAP framework under which the SORP was developed.
In applying this overarching basis, the Group has chosen to apply US GAAP for measuring the insurance assets and liabilities of Jackson.
In addition, for the Groups operations in India, Japan, Taiwan and, until 2012, Vietnam, where the local GAAP basis would not be appropriate as the start point for deriving MSB insurance asset and liabilities, the measurement has been determined substantially by reference to US GAAP requirements.
For 2012, the Group had the option to either continue with its current basis of measurement or improve its accounting policy under IFRS 4 to acknowledge the issuance of the Update.
Prudential has chosen to improve its accounting policy in 2012 to apply the US GAAP update, on a retrospective basis, to the results of Jackson and the affected Asia operations.
The 2011 comparatives in these consolidated financial statements have been adjusted accordingly for the retrospective application of this Update.
Separately from the DAC change noted above, in Vietnam, the Company has improved its estimation basis for liabilities in 2012 from one determined substantially by reference to US GAAP requirements.
Aft er making this change, the estimation basis for Vietnam is aligned substantially with that used in Singapore, Malaysia and some other Asia operations.
A: Background and accounting policies Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 171 Eff ect of the change in accounting policy a The effect of the change in accounting policy for deferred acquisition costs DAC on the income statement, earnings per share, comprehensive income, changes in equity and statement of financial position is shown in the tables below: Consolidated income statement 2012 m 2011 m As reported Under Under under Under previous Eff ect of new previous Eff ect of new Year ended 31 December policy change policy policy change policy Total revenue, net of reinsurance 55,476 55,476 36,506 36,506 Acquisition costs and other expenditure 5,908 147 6,055 5,005 115 5,120 Total other charges, net of reinsurance 46,233 46,233 29,575 29,575 Pro t before tax being tax attributable to shareholders and policyholders returns 3,335 147 3,188 1,926 115 1,811 Less Add tax charge credit attributable to policyholders returns 378 378 17 17 Pro t before tax attributable to shareholders 2,957 147 2,810 1,943 115 1,828 Total tax charge attributable to policyholders and shareholders 1,039 48 991 432 40 392 Adjustment to remove tax charge credit attributable to policyholders returns 378 378 17 17 Tax charge attributable to shareholders returns 661 48 613 449 40 409 Profi t for the year 2,296 99 2,197 1,494 75 1,419 Profi t for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 2,296 99 2,197 1,490 75 1,415 Earnings per share in pence Based on pro t attributable to the equity holders of the Company: Basic 90.4p 3.9 p 86.5p 58.8p 3.0 p 55.8p Diluted 90.3p 3.9 p 86.4p 58.7p 3.0 p 55.7p 172 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 A: B ackground and accounting policies continued A5: New accounting pronouncements continued Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and statement of changes in equity 2012 m 2011 m As reported Under Under under Under previous Eff ect of new previous Eff ect of new Year ended 31 December policy change policy policy change policy Pro t for the year 2,296 99 2,197 1,494 75 1,419 Exchange movements on foreign operations and net investment hedges, net of related tax 236 20 216 100 5 105 Unrealised valuation movements on securities of US insurance operations classi ed as available-for-sale 862 862 811 811 Related change in amortisation of deferred income and acquisition costs 314 44 270 331 56 275 Related tax 190 15 205 168 19 187 Net unrealised gains 358 29 387 312 37 349 Total comprehensive income for the year 2,418 50 2,368 1,706 43 1,663 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 2,418 50 2,368 1,702 43 1,659 Shareholders equity: Net increase in shareholders equity 1,845 50 1,795 1,086 43 1,043 At beginning of year 9,117 553 8,564 8,031 510 7,521 At end of year 10,962 603 10,359 9,117 553 8,564 Consolidated statement of fi financial position 2012 m 2011 m As reported Under Under under Under previous Eff ect of new previous Eff ect of new Year ended 31 December policy change policy policy change policy Assets Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets attributable to shareholders 5,173 906 4,267 5,069 835 4,234 Total other assets 305,986 305,986 268,511 268,511 Total assets 311,159 906 310,253 273,580 835 272,745 Liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 4,273 303 3,970 4,211 282 3,929 Total other liabilities 295,919 295,919 260,209 260,209 Total liabilities 300,192 303 299,889 264,420 282 264,138 Equity Shareholders equity 10,962 603 10,359 9,117 553 8,564 Non-controlling interests 5 5 43 43 Total equity 10,967 603 10,364 9,160 553 8,607 A: Background and accounting policies Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 173 b The effect of the change in accounting policy for deferred acquisition costs on the Groups supplementary analysis of pro t is shown in the table below: Segment disclosure profi t before tax 2012 m 2011 m As reported Under Under under Under previous Eff ect of new previous Eff ect of new Year ended 31 December policy change policy policy change policy Operating profi t based on longer-term investment returns note i Asia insurance operations 922 9 913 704 704 note ii US insurance operations 1,081 117 964 694 43 651 Other operations 656 656 672 672 Total 2,659 126 2,533 2,070 43 2,027 Short-term uctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 225 21 204 148 72 220 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on fide ned bene t pension schemes 50 50 21 21 Gain on dilution of Groups holdings 42 42 Amortisation of acquisition accounting adjustments arising on the purchase of REALIC 19 19 Profi t before tax attributable to shareholders 2,957 147 2,810 1,943 115 1,828 Basic EPS from operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns after tax and non-controlling interests 80.2p 3.4 p 76.8p 63.9p 1.1 p 62.8p Basic EPS based on total pro t after tax and non-controlling interests 90.4p 3.9 p 86.5p 58.8p 3.0 p 55.8p Notes on the eff ect of the change in the accounting policy on operating profi t based on longer-term investment returns i Asia insurance operations Eff ect of change 2012 m 2011 m New business Acquisition costs on new contracts not deferred under the new policy 14 16 Business in force at beginning of period Reduction in amortisation on reduced DAC balance under the new policy 5 16 Total 9 ii US insurance operations Eff ect of change 2012 m 2011 m New business Acquisition costs on new contracts not deferred under the new policy 174 156 Business in force at beginning of period Reduction in amortisation on reduced DAC balance under the new policy 57 113 Total 117 43 174 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 A: B ackground and accounting policies continued A5: New accounting pronouncements continued c Accounting pronouncements endorsed by the EU but not yet eff ective The following accounting pronouncements potentially relevant to the Group have been issued and endorsed for use in the EU but are not mandatory for adoption for the 31 December 2012 year end.
Amendments to IAS 19, Employee benefi ts In June 2011, the IASB published amendments to IAS 19 on accounting for pensions and other post-employment bene ts effective from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The key revisions to the standard are: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The removal of the corridor option for actuarial gains and losses The Group does not apply the corridor option, therefore, its removal has no impact to the Group: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Presentation of actuarial gains and losses The Group currently presents actuarial gains and losses in the income statement.
Under the revised standard actuarial gains and losses will be presented in other comprehensive income.
Details of the 2012 and 2011 actuarial gains and losses on the current basis are shown in note I3: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The replacement of the expected return on plan assets with an amount based on the liability discount rate in the determination of pension costs This revision alters the pension costs included in the Groups income statement with a corresponding equal and opposite effect on the actuarial gains and losses included in other comprehensive income.
The effect of this change for Prudential is not expected to be signi cant: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Enhanced disclosures, speci cally on risks arising from fide ned bene t plans.
Adoption of the revised IAS 19 standard will have no impact on shareholders equity.
Standards on joint arrangements and disclosures: IFRS 11, Joint arrangements, IFRS 12, Disclosures of interest in other entities and IAS 28, Investments in associates and joint ventures In May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 11, Joint arrangements to replace IAS 31, Interests in Joint Ventures.
The standard also incorporates the guidance contained in related interpretation in SIC 13, Jointly Controlled Entities Non-Monetary Contributions by Venturers.
The standard requires a joint venture to be recognised as an investment and be accounted for using the equity method in accordance with IAS 28.
The attaching changes to disclosure requirements for parties to joint arrangements are speci ed in IFRS 12, Disclosures of interest in other entities, which replaces the disclosure requirements of IAS 28, Investments in associates and joint ventures and IAS 31, Interests in Joint Ventures.
The standards are effective from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 for IFRS as issued by the IASB and 1 January 2014 for IFRS as endorsed by the EU but with early adoption permitted.
The Groups investments in joint ventures are currently accounted for using proportionate consolidation.
At 31 December 2012, this approach gave rise to consolidated gross assets and liabilities for the joint ventures of 3,946 million and 3,595 million respectively.
With the application of IFRS 11, the Groups investments in joint ventures will be accounted for on a single line equity method thus giving rise at 31 December 2012 to a net interest of 351 million included within gross assets.
Similarly, the 2012 gross revenue and charges of 1,040 million and 942 million respectively, which are currently included on a line-by-line basis within the income statement will, after adoption of the standard, be presented as a single net contribution of 98 million.
As a consequence, the standard will also have a small impact on pro t before tax as the tax on the pro ts of the joint ventures will no longer be presented in the tax line, instead the tax charges will be required to be netted against the Groups share of joint ventures income included in pro t before tax.
The tax charges for 2012 for the Groups share of joint ventures income was 19 million.
Adoption of the standard will have no impact on net of tax pro ts or shareholders equity.
Standards on consolidation and disclosures: IFRS 10, Consolidated fi financial statements, IFRS 12, Disclosures of interest in other entities and IAS 27, Separate fi financial statements In May 2011, the IASB issued these three standards to replace IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial statements and SIC 12, Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
The standards are effective from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The standards are expected to have a minor impact on the Groups assessment of its interests in investment funds including OEICs and unit trusts and is likely to increase the number of funds consolidated.
The Group is currently determining those additional funds that will require consolidation under the requirements of IFRS 10 and the effect of retrospective adjustment to comparative results.
The principal effect will be to gross up the consolidated balance sheet for: i The difference between the net value of the newly consolidated assets and liabilities and the previous carrying value for the Groups interest: and ii The equal and opposite liability or minority interest for the external parties interests in the funds.
The grossing up effect on the 2012 statement of financial position is not expected to exceed 1 billion.
Adoption of the standard is expected to have an insigni cant effect on the retrospectively adjusted comparative 2012 pro t and shareholders equity in the 2013 results.
A: Background and accounting policies Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 175 IFRS 13, Fair value measurement In May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 13, Fair value measurement standard which creates a uniform framework to explain how to measure fair value and aims to enhance fair value disclosures, but it does not change when to measure fair value or require additional fair value measurements.
The standard requires additional disclosure on the fair value of nonfinancial assets and liabilities and enhanced disclosures of recurring level 3 fair value measurements.
The standard is effective from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, with no adjustment to comparative results.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the standard but it is not expected to have a material impact on the fair value measurement of the Groups assets and liabilities.
Disclosures will be enhanced in providing detail of the methodology and underlying assumptions used to determine fair value of the Groups assets and liabilities, in line with the new requirements.
Amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of fi financial statements These amendments, effective on or after 1 January 2013, change the requirement for the disclosure of items presented in other comprehensive income, requiring items to be presented separately based on whether or not they may be recycled to pro t or loss in the future.
The Group is expecting the amendments to be purely presentational with no signi cant impact on the Groups results and financial position.
Off setting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation and IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures The two amendments, effective on or after 1 January 2013 and 2014, respectively clari es the offsetting criteria for financial assets and financial liabilities in the statement of financial position.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of these amendments.
d Accounting pronouncements not yet endorsed by the EU The following accounting pronouncement potentially relevant to the Group has been issued but not yet endorsed for use in the EU.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments: Classifi cation and measurement The new standard, effective on or after 1 January 2015, will automatically replace IAS 39, Financial Instruments Recognition and measurement.
Under the new requirements the classi cation and hence measurement of financial assets would be on two bases, either amortised cost or fair value through pro t or loss, rather than the existing four bases of classi cation.
These requirements maintain the existing amortised cost measurement for most liabilities but will require changes in fair value due to changes in the entitys own credit risk to be recognised in the other comprehensive income OCI section of the comprehensive income statement, rather than within pro t or loss for liabilities measured at fair value.
On 28 November 2012, the IASB released an Exposure Draft proposing amendments to IAS 9.
The proposed changes would introduce a fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI category which would include certain financial assets that contain contractual cash ows that are solely payments of principal and interest and are held in a business model in which assets are managed both in order to collect contractual cash ows and for sale.
The Group is still assessing the full impact of this standard.
176 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 B: S ummary of results B1: Segment disclosure profi t before tax The determination of the operating segments and performance measure of the operating segments of the Group are as detailed in note A3 2 d. Further segmentation of the income statement is provided in note F1 of these financial statements.
Note 2012 m 2011 m Asia operations notes i, ii Insurance operations Operating result before gain on sale of stake in China Life of Taiwan 869 709 Gain on sale of stake in China Life of Taiwan 51 Total Asia insurance operations 920 709 Development expenses 7 5 Total Asia insurance operations after development expenses 913 704 Eastspring Investments 75 80 Total Asia operations 988 784 US operations notes i, ii, iii Jackson US insurance operations 964 651 Broker-dealer and asset management 39 24 Total US operations 1,003 675 UK operations notes i, ii UK insurance operations: Long-term business 703 683 note v General insurance commission 33 40 Total UK insurance operations 736 723 M&G 371 357 Total UK operations 1,107 1,080 Total segment profi t 3,098 2,539 Other income and expenditure Investment return and other income 13 22 Interest payable on core structural borrowings 280 286 Corporate expenditure 231 219 Total 498 483 note vi RPI to CPI in ation measure change on fide ned bene t pension schemes 42 Solvency II implementation costs 48 55 note vii Restructuring costs 19 16 Operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns 2,533 2,027 note viii Short-term uctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 204 220 Shareholders' share of actuarial and other gains and losses on fide ned bene t pension note ix schemes 50 21 Gain on dilution of Group's holdings I2 42 Amortisation of acquisition accounting adjustments arising on the purchase of REALIC I1 19 Profi t before tax attributable to shareholders 2,810 1,828 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
Notes i Operating profi t based on longer-term investment returns The Group provides supplementary analysis of IFRS profi t before tax attributable to shareholders so as to distinguish operating profi t based on longer-term investment returns from other elements of total profi t. Operating profi t based on longer-term investment returns is the basis on which management regularly reviews the performance of Prudentials segments as defi ned by IFRS 8.
Further discussion on the determination of operating profi t based on longer-term investment returns is provided in note A3 2 d. B: Summary of results Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 177 ii Eff ect of changes to assumptions, estimates and bases of determining life assurance liabilities The results of the Groups long-term business operations are aff ected by changes to assumptions, estimates and bases of preparation.
These are described in notes D2 g, D3 g and D4 g. iii Jackson operating results based on longer-term investment returns IFRS basis operating profi ts for US operations include the following amounts net of related change in amortisation of deferred acquisition costs, where applicable so as to derive longer-term investment returns.
2012 m 2011 m Debt securities: Amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses 72 67 Risk margin reserve charge for longer-term credit-related losses see note iv below 66 56 Equity type investments: Longer-term returns 54 51 iv The risk margin reserve RMR charge for longer-term credit-related losses included in operating profi t based on longer-term investment returns of Jackson for 2012 is based on an average annual RMR of 26 basis points 2011: 25 basis points on average book values of US$47.6 billion 2011: US$44.4 billion as shown below: 2012 2011 Average Average book book Annual expected loss Annual expected loss Moodys rating category value RMR value RMR or equivalent under NAIC ratings of MBS US$m % US$m m US$m % US$m m A3 or higher 23,129 0.11 26 16 21,255 0.08 17 11 Baa1, 2 or 3 21,892 0.26 56 36 20,688 0.26 54 34 Ba1, 2 or 3 1,604 1.12 18 11 1,788 1.04 19 11 B1, 2 or 3 597 2.82 17 11 474 3.01 14 9 Below B3 342 2.44 8 5 211 3.88 8 5 Total 47,564 0.26 125 79 44,416 0.25 112 70 Related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs see below 21 13 22 14 Risk margin reserve charge to operating pro t for longer-term credit-related losses 104 66 90 56 Consistent with the basis of measurement of insurance assets and liabilities for Jacksons IFRS results, the charges and credits to operating profi ts based on longer-term investment returns are partially off set by related changes to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
v General insurance commission UK operations transferred its general insurance business to Churchill in 2002, with general insurance commission representing the commission received net of expenses for Prudential-branded general insurance products as part of this arrangement.
vi RPI to CPI infl ation measure change During 2011, the Group altered its infl ation measure basis for future statutory increases to pension payments for certain tranches of its UK defi ned benefi t pension schemes.
This refl ected the UK Governments decision to replace the basis of indexation from Retail Prices Index with Consumer Prices Index.
This resulted in a credit to the operating profi t before tax in 2011 of 42 million.
vii Restructuring costs are incurred in the UK and represent one-off expenses incurred in securing expense savings.
viii Short-term fl uctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business.
2012 m 2011 m Insurance operations: Asia 76 92 US 90 167 UK 136 159 Other operations: Economic hedge value movement 32 Other 114 120 Total 204 220 General overview of defaults The Group did not experience any defaults on its shareholder-backed debt securities portfolio in 2012 or 2011.
Asia insurance operations The positive short-term fl uctuations of 76 million in 2012 refl ects unrealised gains on bond assets following a fall in yields in the period.
These gains more than off set the impact of falling interest rates in Hong Kong and the transfer to operating profi t of previously booked unrealised gains on the sale of the Groups stake in China Life of Taiwan.
The realised gain on the sale of the Groups stake in China Life of Taiwan of 51 million is included in the Groups operating profi t based on longer-term investment returns as disclosed above.
The fl uctuations of 92 million in 2011 in part refl ected equity market falls in Taiwan and negative unrealised value movement on the Groups stake in China Life of Taiwan.
178 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 B: S ummary of results continued B1: Segment disclosure profi t before tax continued US insurance operations The short-term fl uctuations in investment returns for US insurance operations comprise the following items: 2012 m 2011 m Short-term uctuations relating to debt securities: Charges in the year: Defaults Losses on sales of impaired and deteriorating bonds 23 32 Bond write downs 37 62 Recoveries reversals 13 42 note a Total charges in the year 47 52 note iii Less: Risk margin charge included in operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns 79 70 32 18 Interest-related realised gains: Arising in the year 94 158 Less: amortisation of gains and losses arising in current and prior years to operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns 91 84 3 74 Related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs 3 3 Total short-term uctuations related to debt securities 32 89 Derivatives other than equity-related : market value movements net of related change to amortisation of deferred note b acquisition costs 135 554 Net equity hedge results principally guarantees and derivatives, net of related change to amortisation of deferred note c acquisition costs 302 788 Equity-type investments: actual less longer-term return net of related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition A3 d i costs 23 Other items net of related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs 22 22 Total 90 167 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
Notes a The charges on the debt securities of Jackson comprise the following: 2012 m 2011 m Residential mortgage-backed securities: Prime including agency 4 25 Alt-A 1 1 Sub-prime 3 Total residential mortgage-backed securities 8 26 Corporate debt securities 14 14 Other 25 12 Total 47 52 b The gain of 135 million 2011: gain of 554 million is principally for the value movement of non-equity free-standing derivatives held to manage interest rate exposures, and for the GMIB reinsurance asset that is considered to be a derivative under IAS 39.
Under IAS 39, unless hedge accounting is applied value movements on derivatives are recognised in the income statement.
For the derivatives programme attaching to the general account business, the Group has continued its approach of not seeking to apply hedge accounting under IAS 39.
This decision refl ects the inherent constraints of IAS 39 for hedge accounting investments and life assurance assets and liabilities under grandfathered US GAAP under IFRS 4. c The amount of 302 million 2011: 788 million relates to the net equity hedge accounting eff ect of the equity-based derivatives and associated guarantee liabilities of Jacksons variable and fi xed index annuity business.
The details of the value movements excluded from operating profi t based on longer-term investment returns are as described in note C. The principal movements are for i value for free-standing and GMWB not for life embedded derivatives, ii accounting values for GMDB and GMWB for life guarantees, iii fee assessments and claim payments in respect of guarantee liabilities and iv related changes to DAC amortisation.
In 2012, the charge of 302 million principally refl ects fair value movements on free-standing futures contracts and short-dated options.
The movements included within the net equity hedge result include the eff ect of lower interest rates for which the movement was particularly signifi cant in 2011.
The value movements on derivatives held to manage this and any other interest rate exposure are included in the 135 million 2011: 554 million described above in note b.
In addition to the items discussed above, for US insurance operations, included within the statement of comprehensive income is an increase in net unrealised gains on debt securities classifi ed as available-for-sale of 862 million 2011: increase in net unrealised gains of 811 million.
Temporary market value movements do not refl ect defaults or impairments.
Additional details on the movement in the value of the Jackson portfolio are included in note D3.
B: Summary of results Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 179 UK Insurance operations The gain on short-term fl uctuations in investment returns for UK insurance operations of 136 million 2011: 159 million principally refl ect net investment gains arising in the year on fi xed income assets backing the capital of the shareholder-backed annuity business.
Economic hedge value movement This item represents the costs on short-dated hedge contracts taken out in the fi first half of 2012 to provide downside protection against severe equity market falls through a period of particular uncertainty with respect to the Eurozone.
The hedge contracts were terminated in the second half of 2012.
Other operations Short-term fl uctuations in investment returns for Other operations in 2012 of 114 million primarily represent unrealised fair value movements on Prudential Capitals bond portfolio.
Short-term fl uctuations in investment returns for Other operations in 2011 of 120 million represent unrealised value movements on investments, including centrally held swaps to manage foreign exchange and certain macroeconomic exposures of the Group.
ix Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defi ned benefi t pension schemes 2012 m 2011 m Actuarial gains and losses Actual less expected return on scheme assets 11 9 Experience gains on scheme liabilities 15 19 Losses gains on changes of assumptions for scheme liabilities 40 12 14 40 Less: amount attributable to the PAC with-pro ts sub-fund 15 18 1 22 Other gains and losses One-off uplift to recognise a portion of PSPS surplus 164 Movement in the provision for fide cit funding of PSPS 4 Less: amount attributable to the PAC with-pro ts sub-fund 115 3 49 1 Total 50 21 The actuarial gains and losses shown in the table above relate to the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS, and the Scottish Amicable and M&G schemes.
The amounts did not include actuarial gains and losses for the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme, for which the Group has not recognised a substantial portion of its interest in the schemes underlying surplus.
For the 2011 comparatives, the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defi ned benefi t pension schemes comprises the aggregate eff ect of actual less expected returns on scheme assets, experience gains and losses, the eff ect of changes in assumptions and altered provisions for defi cit funding, where relevant.
For 2012, these items also apply.
However, the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defi ned benefi t pension schemes also includes 49 million for the eff ect of partial recognition of surplus of the main Prudential Staff Pension Scheme.
This credit arose from an altered funding arrangement following the 5 April 2011 triennial valuation.
Further details on the Groups defi ned benefi t pension schemes are shown in note I3.
B2: Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held in employee share trusts and consolidated unit trusts and open ended investment companies OEICs, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Groups only class of potentially dilutive ordinary shares are those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year.
No adjustment is made if the impact is anti-dilutive overall.
Earnings per share are calculated based on earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders, after related tax and non-controlling interests.
2012 Net of tax Nonand nonBasic Diluted Before controlling controlling earnings earnings Note tax Tax interests interests per share per share note B1 note F5 m m m m pence pence Based on operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns 2,533 582 1,951 76.8p 76.7p Short-term uctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business B1 204 26 178 7.0p 7.0p Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on fide ned bene t pension schemes B1 50 12 38 1.5p 1.5p Gain on dilution of Group's holdings I2 42 42 1.7p 1.7p Amortisation of acquisition accounting adjustments arising on the purchase of REALIC I1 19 7 12 0.5 p 0.5 p Based on pro t for the year 2,810 613 2,197 86.5p 86.4p 180 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 B: S ummary of results continued B2: Earnings per share continued 2011 m Net of tax Nonand nonBasic Diluted Before controlling controlling earnings earnings Note tax Tax interests interests per share per share note B1 note F5 m m m m pence pence Based on operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns 2,027 433 4 1,590 62.8p 62.7p Short-term uctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business B1 220 29 191 7.6 p 7.6 p Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on fide ned bene t pension schemes B1 21 5 16 0.6p 0.6p Based on pro t for the year 1,828 409 4 1,415 55.8p 55.7p The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
Number of shares A reconciliation of the weighted average number of ordinary shares used for calculating basic and diluted earnings per share is set out as below: 2012 2011 millions millions Weighted average shares for calculation of basic earnings per share 2,541 2,533 Shares under option at end of year 9 13 Number of shares that would have been issued at fair value on assumed option exercise 6 8 Weighted average shares for calculation of diluted earnings per share 2,544 2,538 B3: Dividends 2012 m 2011 m Dividends declared and paid in reporting year Parent company: Interim dividend 2012: 8.40p: 2011: 7.95p 215 203 Final dividend for prior period 2012: 17.24p: 2011: 17.24p 440 439 Total 655 642 Dividends paid in cash, as set in the consolidated statement of cash ows for 2012 were 655 million 2011: 642 million.
2012 m 2011 m Parent company dividends relating to reporting year: Interim dividend 2012: 8.40p: 2011: 7.95p 215 203 Final dividend 2012: 20.79p: 2011: 17.24p 532 439 Total 747 642 B: Summary of results Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 181 Dividend per share Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are paid.
The final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 17.24 pence per ordinary share was paid to eligible shareholders on 24 May 2012 and the 2012 interim dividend of 8.4 pence per ordinary share was paid to eligible shareholders on 27 September 2012.
The Board has decided to rebase the full year dividend upwards by 4 pence, re ecting the strong progress made in both the earnings and free surplus generation of the business and in the delivery of our financial objectives.
In line with this, the directors recommend a final dividend of 20.79 pence per share 2011: 17.24 pence, which brings the total dividend for the year to 29.19 pence 2011: 25.19 pence, representing an increase of 15.9 per cent over 2011.
The 2012 final dividend of 20.79 pence per ordinary share will be paid on 23 May 2013 in sterling to shareholders on the principal register and the Irish branch register at 6.00pm BST on Tuesday, 2 April 2013 Record Date, and in Hong Kong dollars to shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register at 4.30pm Hong Kong time on the Record Date HK Shareholders.
Holders of US American Depositary Receipts US Shareholders will be paid their dividends in US dollars on or about 3 June 2013.
The final dividend will be paid on or about 30 May 2013 in Singapore dollars to shareholders with shares standing to the credit of their securities accounts with The Central Depository Pte.
Limited CDP at 5.00pm Singapore time on the Record Date SG Shareholders.
The dividend payable to the HK Shareholders will be translated using the exchange rate quoted by the WM Company at the close of business on 12 March 2013.
The exchange rate at which the dividend payable to the SG Shareholders will be translated into SG$, will be determined by CDP.
The dividend will distribute an estimated 532 million of shareholders funds.
Shareholders on the principal register and Irish branch register will be able to participate in a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
B4: Exchange translation Exchange movement recognised in other comprehensive income 2012 m 2011 m Asia operations 87 28 US operations 187 35 Unallocated to a segment central funds 60 44 214 37 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
The movements for Asia and US operations re ect the application of year end exchange rates to the assets and liabilities, and average exchange rates to the income statement on translation of these operations into the presentation currency of the Group.
The movement unallocated to a segment mainly re ects the translation of currency borrowings and forward contracts which have been designated as a net investment hedge against the currency risk of the net investment in Jackson.
The exchange rates applied were: Closing Closing rate at Average rate at Average Local currency: 31 Dec 2012 for 2012 31 Dec 2011 for 2011 Hong Kong 12.60 12.29 12.07 12.48 Indonesia 15,665.76 14,842.01 14,091.80 14,049.41 Malaysia 4.97 4.89 4.93 4.90 Singapore 1.99 1.98 2.02 2.02 India 89.06 84.70 82.53 74.80 Vietnam 33,875.42 33,083.59 33,688.16 33,139.22 US 1.63 1.58 1.55 1.60 182 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 B: S ummary of results continued B5: Group statement of fi financial position To explain more comprehensively the assets, liabilities and capital of the Groups businesses, it is appropriate to provide analyses of the Groups statement of financial position by operating segment and type of business.
The tables below aggregate the three asset management segments for ease of presentation and hence should be read in conjunction with the associated tables on asset management in note E2.
a Group statement of fi financial position by operating segment i Position at 31 December 2012 2012 m UnalloAsset cated to a IntraInsurance operations Total managesegment group 31 Dec insurance ment central eliminaGroup UK US Asia operations operations operations tions total By operating segment D2 D3 D4 E2 Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Goodwill 239 239 1,230 1,469 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 105 3,222 908 4,235 14 18 4,267 Total 105 3,222 1,147 4,474 1,244 18 5,736 Intangible assets attributable to with-pro ts funds: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 178 178 178 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 6 72 78 78 H1 Total 184 72 256 256 Total intangible assets 289 3,222 1,219 4,730 1,244 18 5,992 H4 Deferred tax assets 183 1,889 83 2,155 107 52 2,314 H3, H6 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 5,424 6,792 1,117 13,333 1,051 3,766 6,113 12,037 Investments of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 10,852 24 4 10,880 10,880 Investments accounted for using the equity method 72 72 41 113 Financial investments: Loans 3,373 6,235 1,014 10,622 1,199 11,821 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 36,027 49,551 14,310 99,888 70 99,958 B5 c Debt securities 83,862 32,993 21,402 138,257 1,846 140,103 Other investments 4,576 2,296 957 7,829 44 27 7,900 Deposits 11,131 211 1,227 12,569 84 12,653 G1, H7, H8 Total investments 149,893 91,310 38,914 280,117 3,284 27 283,428 H9 Properties held for sale 98 98 98 H10 Cash and cash equivalents 2,638 513 1,668 4,819 1,083 482 6,384 Total assets 158,525 103,726 43,001 305,252 6,769 4,345 6,113 310,253 Note Further segmental analysis: The non-current assets of the Group comprise goodwill, intangible assets other than DAC and present value of acquired in-force business and property, plant and equipment included within Other non-investment and non-cash assets.
Items defi ned as fi financial instruments or related to insurance contracts are excluded.
The Groups total non-current assets at 31 December comprise: 2012 m 2011 m UK including insurance operations, M&G and central operations 1,927 1,906 US 152 144 Asia 640 681 Total 2,719 2,731 No individual country in Asia held non-current assets at the end of the year which exceeds 10 per cent of the Group total.
B: Summary of results Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 183 2012 m UnalloAsset cated to a IntraInsurance operations Total managesegment group 31 Dec insurance ment central eliminaGroup UK US Asia operations operations operations tions total By operating segment D2 D3 D4 E2 Equity and liabilities Equity H11 Shareholders equity 3,033 4,343 2,529 9,905 1,937 1,483 10,359 Non-controlling interests 1 4 5 5 Total equity 3,034 4,343 2,533 9,910 1,937 1,483 10,364 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds: H12 Insurance contract liabilities 84,266 90,192 34,126 208,584 208,584 Investment contract liabilities with G1 discretionary participation features 33,464 348 33,812 33,812 Investment contract liabilities without G1 discretionary participation features 16,182 2,069 127 18,378 18,378 Unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds re ecting application of realistic basis provisions for UK regulated with-pro ts D2, H12 funds 10,526 63 10,589 10,589 Total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds 144,438 92,261 34,664 271,363 271,363 Core structural borrowings of H13 shareholdernanced operations: Subordinated debt 2,577 2,577 Other 153 153 275 549 977 Total 153 153 275 3,126 3,554 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholdernanced operations 127 26 7 160 1 2,084 2,245 Borrowings attributable to with-pro ts operations 1,033 1,033 1,033 Other non-insurance liabilities: Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 1,461 920 55 2,436 2,436 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 2,307 25 1,851 4,183 162 4,345 Deferred tax liabilities 1,185 2,168 588 3,941 13 16 3,970 Current tax liabilities 237 49 286 8 151 445 Accruals and deferred income 429 110 539 266 28 833 Other creditors 2,766 611 1,601 4,978 3,771 145 6,113 2,781 Provisions 291 20 66 377 149 75 601 Derivative liabilities 1,007 645 837 2,489 150 190 2,829 Other liabilities 210 2,554 640 3,404 37 13 3,454 Total 9,893 6,943 5,797 22,633 4,556 618 6,113 21,694 Total liabilities 155,491 99,383 40,468 295,342 4,832 5,828 6,113 299,889 Total equity and liabilities 158,525 103,726 43,001 305,252 6,769 4,345 6,113 310,253 184 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 B: S ummary of results continued B5: Group statement of fi financial position continued i Position at 31 December 2011 2011 m UnalloAsset cated to a IntraInsurance operations Total managesegment group 31 Dec insurance ment central eliminaGroup UK US Asia operations operations operations tions total By operating segment D2 D3 D4 E2 Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Goodwill 235 235 1,230 1,465 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 113 3,115 977 4,205 16 13 4,234 H1 Total 113 3,115 1,212 4,440 1,246 13 5,699 Intangible assets attributable to with-pro ts funds: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 178 178 178 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 6 83 89 89 H2 Total 184 83 267 267 Total intangible assets 297 3,115 1,295 4,707 1,246 13 5,966 Deferred tax assets 231 1,392 115 1,738 129 409 2,276 H3, H6 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 4,771 1,542 1,024 7,337 1,000 4,532 6,231 6,638 Investments of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 10,712 35 10 10,757 10,757 Investments accounted for using the equity method 70 70 70 Financial investments: Loans 3,115 4,110 1,233 8,458 1,256 9,714 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 36,722 38,036 11,997 86,755 594 87,349 B5 c Debt securities 77,953 27,022 17,681 122,656 1,842 124,498 Other investments 4,568 2,376 470 7,414 78 17 7,509 Deposits 9,287 167 1,165 10,619 89 10,708 G1, H7, H8 Total investments 142,427 71,746 32,556 246,729 3,859 17 250,605 H9 Properties held for sale 3 3 3 H10 Cash and cash equivalents 2,965 271 1,977 5,213 1,735 309 7,257 Total assets 150,691 78,069 36,967 265,727 7,969 5,280 6,231 272,745 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
B: Summary of results Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 185 2011 m UnalloAsset cated to a IntraInsurance operations Total managesegment group 31 Dec insurance ment central eliminaGroup UK US Asia operations operations operations tions total By operating segment D2 D3 D4 E2 Equity and liabilities Equity H11 Shareholders equity 2,581 3,761 2,306 8,648 1,783 1,867 8,564 Non-controlling interests 33 5 38 5 43 Total equity 2,614 3,761 2,311 8,686 1,788 1,867 8,607 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds: H12 Insurance contract liabilities 82,732 67,278 30,353 180,363 180,363 Investment contract liabilities with G1 discretionary participation features 29,348 397 29,745 29,745 Investment contract liabilities without G1 discretionary participation features 14,944 1,911 112 16,967 16,967 Unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds re ecting application of realistic basis provisions for UK regulated with-pro ts D2, H12 funds 9,165 50 9,215 9,215 Total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds 136,189 69,189 30,912 236,290 236,290 Core structural borrowings of G1, H13 shareholdernanced operations: Subordinated debt 2,652 2,652 Other 160 160 250 549 959 Total 160 160 250 3,201 3,611 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholdernanced operations 103 127 141 371 13 2,956 3,340 Borrowings attributable to with-pro ts operations 972 972 972 Other non-insurance liabilities: Obligations under funding, securities lending H4, H14, H15 and sale and repurchase agreements 1,945 1,169 3,114 3,114 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 2,043 18 1,101 3,162 678 3,840 Deferred tax liabilities 1,349 1,818 506 3,673 5 251 3,929 Current tax liabilities 553 116 669 106 155 930 Accruals and deferred income 321 103 424 290 22 736 Other creditors 2,829 548 660 4,037 4,493 245 6,231 2,544 Provisions 266 13 47 326 133 70 529 Derivative liabilities 1,298 887 480 2,665 182 207 3,054 Other liabilities 209 379 590 1,178 31 40 1,249 Total 10,813 4,832 3,603 19,248 5,918 990 6,231 19,925 Total liabilities 148,077 74,308 34,656 257,041 6,181 7,147 6,231 264,138 Total equity and liabilities 150,691 78,069 36,967 265,727 7,969 5,280 6,231 272,745 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
186 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 B: S ummary of results continued B5: Group statement of fi financial position continued ii Group statement of fi financial position additional analysis by business type 2012 m 2011 m Shareholder-backed business UnitUnallolinked Asset cated to a IntraParticiand Nonmanagesegment group 31 Dec 31 Dec pating variable linked ment central eliminaGroup Group funds annuity business operations operations tions total total E2 Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Goodwill 239 1,230 1,469 1,465 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 4,235 14 18 4,267 4,234 Total 4,474 1,244 18 5,736 5,699 Intangible assets attributable to with-pro ts funds: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 178 178 178 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 78 78 89 Total 256 256 267 Total intangible assets 256 4,474 1,244 18 5,992 5,966 Deferred tax assets 114 2,041 107 52 2,314 2,276 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 3,133 508 9,692 1,051 3,766 6,113 12,037 6,638 Investments of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 8,659 622 1,599 10,880 10,757 Investments accounted for using the equity method 72 41 113 70 Financial investments: Loans 2,709 7,913 1,199 11,821 9,714 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 25,105 73,860 923 70 99,958 87,349 Debt securities 62,002 9,504 66,751 1,846 140,103 124,498 Other investments 4,745 57 3,027 44 27 7,900 7,509 Deposits 9,470 1,396 1,703 84 12,653 10,708 Total investments 112,690 85,439 81,988 3,284 27 283,428 250,605 Properties held for sale 98 98 3 Cash and cash equivalents 1,721 1,310 1,788 1,083 482 6,384 7,257 Total assets 118,012 87,257 99,983 6,769 4,345 6,113 310,253 272,745 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
B: Summary of results Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 187 2012 m 2011 m Shareholder-backed business UnitUnallolinked Asset cated to a IntraParticiand Nonmanagesegment group 31 Dec 31 Dec pating variable linked ment central eliminaGroup Group funds annuity business operations operations tions total total E2 Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 9,905 1,937 1,483 10,359 8,564 Non-controlling interests 1 4 5 43 Total equity 1 9,909 1,937 1,483 10,364 8,607 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds: Contract liabilities including amounts in respect of contracts classi ed as investment contracts under IFRS 4 97,795 85,523 77,456 260,774 227,075 Unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds 10,589 10,589 9,215 Total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds 108,384 85,523 77,456 271,363 236,290 Core structural borrowings of shareholdernanced operations: Subordinated debt 2,577 2,577 2,652 Other 153 275 549 977 959 Total 153 275 3,126 3,554 3,611 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholdernanced operations 1 159 1 2,084 2,245 3,340 Borrowings attributable to with-pro ts operations 1,033 1,033 972 Deferred tax liabilities 1,086 46 2,809 13 16 3,970 3,929 Other non-insurance liabilities 7,508 1,687 9,497 4,543 602 6,113 17,724 15,996 Total liabilities 118,011 87,257 90,074 4,832 5,828 6,113 299,889 264,138 Total equity and liabilities 118,012 87,257 99,983 6,769 4,345 6,113 310,253 272,745 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
188 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 B: S ummary of results continued B5: Group statement of fi financial position continued b Reconciliation of movement in policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profi ts funds A reconciliation of the total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds of the Group from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Insurance operations m Note UK US Asia Total At 1 January 2011 135,717 60,523 28,740 224,980 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 125,530 60,523 28,674 214,727 Unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds 10,187 66 10,253 Premiums 6,988 12,914 5,079 24,981 Surrenders 4,255 4,270 2,237 10,762 Maturities deaths 7,813 820 664 9,297 Net ows 5,080 7,824 2,178 4,922 Shareholders' transfers post-tax 216 30 246 Investment-related items and other movements 5,862 136 365 6,363 Foreign exchange translation differences 94 706 341 271 As at 31 December 2011 136,189 69,189 30,912 236,290 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 127,024 69,189 30,862 227,075 Unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds 9,165 50 9,215 At 1 January 2012 136,189 69,189 30,912 236,290 Premiums 8,340 14,907 5,620 28,867 Surrenders 4,785 4,356 2,541 11,682 Maturities deaths 8,009 954 658 9,621 Net ows 4,454 9,597 2,421 7,564 Shareholders' transfers post-tax 205 31 236 Investment-related items and other movements 13,006 4,241 2,178 19,425 Foreign exchange translation differences 98 3,678 816 4,592 Acquisition of REALIC I1 12,912 12,912 At 31 December 2012 144,438 92,261 34,664 271,363 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 133,912 92,261 34,601 260,774 Unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds 10,526 63 10,589 Average policyholder liability balances 2012 130,468 77,497 32,732 240,697 2011 126,277 64,856 29,768 220,901 Averages have been based on opening and closing balances and adjusted for acquisitions and disposals in the period and exclude unallocated surplus of with-profi ts funds.
The items above represent the amount attributable to changes in policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds as a result of each of the components listed.
The policyholder liabilities shown include investment contracts without discretionary participation features as fide ned in IFRS 4 and their full movement in the year.
The items above are shown gross of reinsurance.
The analysis includes the impact of premiums, claims and investment movements on policyholders liabilities.
The impact does not represent premiums, claims and investment movements as reported in the income statement.
For example, the premiums shown above will exclude any deductions for fees charges and claims represent the policyholder liabilities provision released rather than the claim amount paid to the policyholder.
For securities where S&P ratings are not immediately available, those produced by Moodys and then Fitch have been used as an alternative.
For some mortgage-backed securities within Jackson, the table above includes these securities using the regulatory ratings detail issued by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC.
These regulatory ratings levels were established by external third parties PIMCO for residential mortgage-backed securities and BlackRock Solutions for commercial mortgage-backed securities.
Notes D2 c, D3 c, D4 c and E2 provide further details on the credit risks of debt securities by segment.
190 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 B: S ummary of results continued B5: Group statement of fi financial position continued ii Groups exposure to holdings in asset-backed securities The Groups exposure to holdings in asset-backed securities ABS, which comprise residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS, commercial mortgage-backed securities CMBS, collateralised debt obligations CDO funds and other asset-backed securities, at 31 December 2012 is as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Shareholder-backed operations: note i UK insurance operations 2012: 34% AAA, 17% AA 1,408 1,358 D3 US insurance operations 5,626 5,380 note ii Asia insurance operations 144 176 note iii Asset management operations 566 594 7,744 7,508 With-profi ts operations: note i UK insurance operations 2012: 60% AAA, 9% AA 5,850 5,351 note ii Asia insurance operations 241 454 6,091 5,805 Total 13,835 13,313 Notes i UK insurance operations All of the exposure of the shareholder-backed business relates to the UK market and primarily relates to investments held by PRIL.
Of the 5,850 million 2011: 5,351 million relating to with-profi ts business, 1,697 million 2011: 1,314 million relates to exposure to the US and with the remaining exposure being primarily to the UK market.
ii Asia insurance operations The Asia insurance operations exposure to asset-backed securities is primarily held by the with-profi ts operations.
Of the 241 million, 63 per cent 2011: 454 million, 75 per cent are investment grade.
iii Asset management operations Asset management operations exposure to asset-backed securities is held by Prudential Capital with no sub-prime exposure.
Of the 566 million, 77 per cent 2011: 595 million, 77 per cent are graded AAA.
iii Group sovereign debt exposure The exposures held by the shareholder-backed business and with-pro ts funds in sovereign debts and bank debt securities at 31 December 2012 are given within the Risk and capital management section of the Business review under Credit risk.
iv Loans Information on the credit quality of the portfolio of loans, which almost wholly is for amounts which are neither past due or impaired is shown in notes D2, D3, D4 and E2.
Details of allowances for loans, losses and amounts past due are shown in notes G1 and G2.
No additional analysis is provided of the element of loans and receivables that were neither past due nor impaired from those of the total portfolio on the grounds of the immateriality of the difference between the neither past due nor impaired element and the total portfolio.
C: Group risk management Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 191 C: Gr oup risk management C: Group risk management Disclosures concerning the Groups risk framework and the management of the risk attached to the Groups financial instruments and insurance liabilities, together with the inter-relationship with the management of capital have been included in the audited sections of the Risk and capital management disclosure in the Business review.
Additional disclosures are shown in section D1.
192 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business D1: Group overview a Products and classifi cation for IFRS reporting The measurement basis of assets and liabilities of long-term business contracts is dependent upon the classi cation of the contracts under IFRS.
Under IFRS 4, contracts are initially classi ed as being either insurance contracts, if the level of insurance risk in the contracts is signi cant, or investment contracts, if the risk is insigni cant.
Insurance contracts Insurance contracts are permitted to be accounted for under previously applied GAAP.
The Group has chosen to adopt this approach.
However, as an improvement to accounting policy, permitted by IFRS 4, the Group has applied the measurement principles for with-pro ts contracts of UK regulated entities and disclosures of the UK Standard FRS 27 from 1 January 2005.
An explanation of the provisions under FRS 27 is provided in note D2.
Under the previously applied GAAP, UK GAAP, the assets and liabilities of contracts are reported in accordance with the Modi ed Statutory Basis MSB of reporting as set out in the ABI SORP.
The insurance contracts of the Groups shareholder-backed business fall broadly into the following categories: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A UK insurance operations bulk and individual annuity business, and other categories of non participating UK business: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Jackson xed and variable annuity business and life insurance: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Prudential Corporation Asia non-participating term, whole life, and unit-linked policies, together with accident and health policies.
Investment contracts Investment contracts are further delineated under IFRS 4 between those with and without discretionary participation features.
For those contracts with discretionary participation features, IFRS 4 also permits the continued application of previously applied GAAP.
The Group has adopted this approach, again subject to the FRS 27 improvement.
For investment contracts that do not contain discretionary participation features, IAS 39 and, where the contract includes an investment management element, IAS 18, apply measurement principles to assets and liabilities attaching to the contract that may diverge from those previously applied.
Contracts of the Group, which are classi ed as investment contracts that do not contain discretionary participation features, can be summarised as: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A UK certain unit-linked savings and similar contracts: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Jackson Guaranteed Investment Contracts GICs and funding agreements minor amounts of annuity certain contracts: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Prudential Corporation Asia minor amounts for a number of small categories of business.
b Concentration of risk i Business accepted The Groups exposure to life assurance risks is well diversi ed.
This is achieved through the geographical spread of the Groups operations and, within those operations, through a broad mix of product types.
As part of the risk management framework, the Group regularly monitors concentration of risk using a variety of risk monitoring tools, including scenario testing and sensitivity analysis of the Groups capital and pro tability metrics involving IGD, Group economic capital, EEV and IFRS, to help identify concentrations of risks by risk types, products and business units, as well as the bene ts of diversi cation of risks.
An example of the diversi cation bene ts for Prudential is that adverse scenarios do not affect all business units in the same way, providing natural hedges within the Group.
For example, the Groups US business is sensitive to increasing interest rates, whereas, in contrast, several business units in Asia bene t from increasing rates.
Conversely, these Asian business units are sensitive towards low interest rates, whereas certain products in the US bene t from falling interest rates.
The economic capital framework also takes into account situations where factors are correlated, for example, the extent of correlation between UK and US economies.
Business units are also required to disclose to the Group risk function all material risks, along with information on their severity and likelihood, and mitigating actions taken or planned.
Credit risk remains one of the largest risk exposures.
This re ects the relative size of exposure in Jackson and the UK shareholder annuities business.
The Group manages concentration of credit risks by setting limits on the maximum exposure to each counterparty based on their credit ratings.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 193 ii Ceded business The Group cedes certain business to other insurance companies.
Although the ceding of insurance does not relieve the Group of liability to its policyholders, the Group participates in such agreements for the purpose of managing its loss exposure.
The Group evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers and monitors concentration of credit risk from similar geographic regions, activities or economic characteristics of the reinsurers to minimise its exposure from reinsurer insolvencies.
At 31 December 2012 the reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities was 6,859 million 2011: 1,344 million.
The increase arises from the acquisition of REALIC.
Further details are shown in note D3 f and I1.
At 31 December 2012, 97 per cent 2011: 91 per cent of the reinsurance recoverable insurance assets were ceded by the Groups UK and US operations, of which 92 per cent 2011: 94 per cent of the balance were from reinsurers with Standard & Poors rating Aand above.
c Guarantees Notes D2 d, D3 d and D4 d provide details of guarantee features of the Groups life assurance products.
In the UK, guarantees of the with-pro ts products are valued for accounting purposes on a market consistent basis for 2012 as described in section D2 e ii.
The UK business also has products with guaranteed annuity option features, mostly within Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF, as described in section D2 d. There is little exposure to financial options and guarantees in the shareholder-backed business of the UK operations.
The US business annuity products have a variety of option and guarantee features as described in section D3 d. Jacksons derivative programme seeks to manage the exposures as described in section D3 h. d Sensitivity of EEV shareholders basis profi t and equity to market and other risks The Group prepares supplementary EEV basis financial statements for half-yearly and annual publication.
These statements include sensitivity disclosures which are part of the market risk information provided to key management.
e Sensitivity of IFRS basis profi t or loss and shareholders equity to market and other risks i Overview of risks by business unit The financial and insurance assets and liabilities attaching to the Groups life assurance business are, to varying degrees, subject to market and insurance risk and other changes of experience assumptions that may have a material effect on IFRS basis pro t or loss and shareholders equity.
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash ows of a financial instrument or, in the case of liabilities of insurance contracts, their carrying value, will uctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises three types of risk, namely: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Currency risk: due to changes in foreign exchange rates: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Interest rate risk: due to changes in market interest rates: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Other price risk: due to uctuations in market prices other than those arising from interest rate risk or currency risk.
Policyholder liabilities relating to the Groups life assurance businesses are also sensitive to the effects of other changes in experience, or expected future experience, such as for mortality, other insurance risk and lapse risk.
Three key points are to be noted, namely: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The Groups with-pro ts and unit-linked funds absorb most market risk attaching to the funds investments.
Except for second order effects, for example, on asset management fees and shareholders share of cost of bonuses for with-pro ts business, shareholder results are not directly affected by market value movements on the assets of these funds: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The Groups shareholder results are most sensitive to market risks for assets of the shareholder-backed business: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The main exposures of the Groups IFRS basis results to market risk for its life assurance operations on investments of the shareholder-backed business are for debt securities.
The most signi cant items for which the IFRS shareholders pro t or loss and shareholders equity for the Groups life assurance business is sensitive to these variables are shown in the following tables.
The distinction between direct and indirect exposure is not intended to indicate the relative size of the sensitivity.
194 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D1: Group overview continued Type of business Market and credit risk Insurance and lapse risk Investments derivatives Liabilities unallocated surplus Other exposure UK insurance operations see also section D2 h With-pro ts business Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Investment Persistency risk to including Prudential performance subject to future shareholder Annuities Limited smoothing through transfers declared bonuses SAIF sub-fund Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Asset management fees earned by M&G Unit-linked business Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Investment Persistency risk performance through asset management fees Asset liability mismatch risk Shareholder-backed Credit risk for assets Mortality experience annuity business covering liabilities and and assumptions for shareholder capital longevity Interest rate risk for assets in excess of liabilities ie assets representing shareholder capital US insurance operations see also section D3 h All business Currency risk Persistency risk Variable annuity Net effect of market risk arising from incidence of business guarantee features and variability of asset management fees offset by derivative hedging programme Fixed indexed annuity Derivative hedge Incidence of equity business programme to the extent participation features not fully hedged against liability and fund performance Fixed indexed annuities, Credit risk Spread difference Lapse risk, but the Fixed annuities and Interest rate risk between earned effects of extreme GIC business rate and events are mitigated rate credited by the application of to policyholders market value adjustments and by the use of swaption contracts Pro t and loss and shareholders equity are volatile for these risks as they affect the values of derivatives and embedded derivatives and impairment losses.
In addition, shareholders equity is volatile for the incidence of these risks on unrealised appreciation of xed income securities classi ed as available-for-sale under IAS 39 D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 195 Type of business Market and credit risk Insurance and lapse risk Investments derivatives Liabilities unallocated surplus Other exposure Asia insurance operations see also section D4 h All business Currency risk Mortality and morbidity risk Persistency risk With-pro ts business Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Investment performance subject to smoothing through declared bonuses Unit-linked business Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Investment performance through asset management fees Asset liability mismatch risk Non-participating Credit risk Interest rates for those business Interest rate and operations where the price risk basis of insurance liabilities is sensitive to current market movements.
ii IFRS shareholder results Exposures for market and other risk Key Group exposures Detailed analyses of sensitivity of IFRS basis pro t or loss and shareholders equity to key market and other risks are provided in notes D2 h, D3 h, D4 h and E4.
The sensitivity analyses provided show the effect on pro t or loss and shareholders equity to changes in the relevant risk variables, all of which are reasonably possible at the relevant balance sheet date.
Other features to note are as follows.
UK The IFRS operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns for UK insurance operations has high potential sensitivity for changes to longevity assumptions affecting the carrying value of liabilities to policyholders for UK shareholder-backed annuity business.
At the total IFRS pro t level, the result is particularly sensitive to temporary value movements on assets backing US and Asia policyholder liabilities which in general are measured on a basis that is insensitive to current market movements and shareholder equity.
US For Jackson, at the level of operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns, the results are sensitive to market conditions to the extent of income earned on spread-based products and second order equity-based exposure in respect of variable annuity asset management fees.
Further information is given below in note D3h iv.
Jacksons derivative programme is used to manage interest rate risk associated with a broad range of products and equity market risk attaching to its equity-based products.
Movements in equity markets, interest rates and credit spreads materially affect the carrying value of derivatives which are used to manage the liabilities to policyholders and backing investment assets.
Combined with the use of US GAAP measurement as grandfathered under IFRS 4 for the insurance contracts assets and liabilities which is largely insensitive to current period market movements, the Jackson total pro t ie including short-term uctuations in investment returns is very sensitive to market movements.
In addition to these effects the Jackson shareholders equity is sensitive to the impact of interest rate and credit spread movements on the value of xed income securities.
Movements in unrealised appreciation on these securities are included as movement in shareholders equity ie outside the income statement.
See D3 h for details of the hedging.
196 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D1: Group overview continued Asia For Asia operations, the operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns is mainly affected by the impact of market levels on unit-linked business persistency, and other insurance risks.
At the total IFRS pro t level the Asia result is affected by short-term value movements on the asset portfolio for non-linked shareholder-backed business.
Impact of diversi cation on risk exposure The Group enjoys signi cant diversi cation bene ts.
This arises because not all risk scenarios will happen at the same time and across all geographic regions.
Relevant correlation factors include: Correlation across geographic regions A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Financial risk factors A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Nonfinancial risk factors Correlation across risk factors A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Longevity risk A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Expenses A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Persistency A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Other risks The effect of Group diversi cation across the Groups life businesses is to signi cantly reduce the aggregate standalone volatility risk to IFRS operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns.
The effect is almost wholly explained by the correlations across risk types, in particular longevity risk.
f Duration of liabilities Under the terms of the Groups contracts, as for life assurance contracts generally, the contractual maturity date is the earlier of the end of the contract term, death, other insurable events or surrender.
The Group has therefore chosen to provide details of liability duration that re ect the actuarially determined best estimate of the likely incidence of these factors on contract duration.
Details are shown in sections D2 i, D3 i and D4 i.
In the years 2008 to 2012, claims paid on the Groups life assurance contracts, including those classi ed as investment contracts under IFRS 4, ranged from 17 billion to 21 billion.
Indicatively, it is to be expected that, of the Groups policyholder liabilities excluding unallocated surplus at 31 December 2012 of 260.8 billion, the amounts likely to be paid in 2013 will be of a similar magnitude.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 197 D2: UK insurance operations a Summary statement of fi financial position In order to show the statement of financial position by reference to the differing degrees of policyholder and shareholder economic interest of the different types of fund and business, the analysis below is structured to show separately assets and liabilities of the Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF, the PAC with-pro ts sub-fund WPSF, unit-linked assets and liabilities and annuity principally PRIL and other long-term business.
97 billion of the 150 billion of investments are held by SAIF and the PAC WPSF.
Shareholders are exposed only indirectly to value movements on these assets.
31 Dec 31 Dec 2012 m 2011 m Other funds and subsidiaries UnitScottish linked Annuity UK UK Amicable PAC withassets and other insurance insurance Insurance profi ts and long-term operations operations Fund fund liabilities business Total Total Total By operating segment note iii notes i, ii Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 105 105 105 113 Total 105 105 105 113 Intangible assets attributable to with-pro ts funds: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 178 178 178 Deferred acquisition costs 6 6 6 Total 184 184 184 Total intangible assets 184 105 105 289 297 Deferred tax assets 1 113 69 69 183 231 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 369 2,440 385 2,230 2,615 5,424 4,771 Investments of long-term business and other operations: note iv Investment properties 500 8,159 622 1,571 2,193 10,852 10,712 Associate investments accounted for using the equity method 72 72 72 70 Financial investments: note v Loans 116 1,993 1,264 1,264 3,373 3,115 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 2,070 19,875 14,071 11 14,082 36,027 36,722 Debt securities 3,864 46,643 6,310 27,045 33,355 83,862 77,953 note vi Other investments 283 3,958 10 325 335 4,576 4,568 Deposits 910 8,395 822 1,004 1,826 11,131 9,287 Total investments 7,743 89,023 21,835 31,292 53,127 149,893 142,427 Properties held for sale 98 98 Cash and cash equivalents 120 1,077 889 552 1,441 2,638 2,965 Total assets 8,233 92,935 23,109 34,248 57,357 158,525 150,691 198 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D2: UK insurance operations continued 31 Dec 31 Dec 2012 m 2011 m Other funds and subsidiaries UnitScottish linked Annuity UK UK Amicable PAC withassets and other insurance insurance Insurance profi ts and long-term operations operations Fund fund liabilities business Total Total Total By operating segment note iii notes i, ii Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 3,033 3,033 3,033 2,581 Non-controlling interests 1 1 33 Total equity 1 3,033 3,033 3,034 2,614 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds: Contract liabilities including amounts in respect of contracts classi ed as investment contracts under IFRS 4 7,878 76,529 22,197 27,308 49,505 133,912 127,024 Unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds re ecting application of realistic basis provisions for UK regulated with-pro ts funds 10,526 10,526 9,165 Total 7,878 87,055 22,197 27,308 49,505 144,438 136,189 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholdernanced operations 1 126 127 127 103 Borrowings attributable to with-pro ts funds 17 1,016 1,033 972 Deferred tax liabilities 39 663 483 483 1,185 1,349 Other non-insurance liabilities 299 4,200 911 3,298 4,209 8,708 9,464 Total liabilities 8,233 92,934 23,109 31,215 54,324 155,491 148,077 Total equity and liabilities 8,233 92,935 23,109 34,248 57,357 158,525 150,691 Notes i For the purposes of this table and subsequent explanation, references to the WPSF also include, for convenience, the amounts attaching to the Defi ned Charges Participating Sub-fund which comprises 3.3 per cent of the total assets of the WPSF and includes the with-profi ts annuity business transferred to Prudential from the Equitable Life Assurance Society on 1 December 2007 with assets of approximately 1.7 billion.
Profi ts to shareholders on this with-profi ts annuity business emerge on a charges less expenses basis and policyholders are entitled to 100 per cent of the investment earnings.
Included in the PAC with-profi ts fund is 13.3 billion 2011: 12.6 billion of non-profi ts annuities liabilities.
ii Excluding policyholder liabilities of the Hong Kong branch of PAC.
iii SAIF is a separate sub-fund within the PAC long-term business fund.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 199 iv Investment properties At 31 December 2012, the Groups UK insurance operations had 10,852 million 2011: 10,712 million of investment properties.
The following table shows the property portfolio by type of investment.
The properties are shown at market value below in accordance with the policies described in note A3.
2012 2011 m % m % Of ce buildings 4,195 38.7 4,443 41.5 Shopping centres commercial 4,389 40.4 4,315 40.3 Retail warehouses industrial 1,624 15.0 1,406 13.1 Development 465 4.3 383 3.6 Other 179 1.6 165 1.5 Total 10,852 100.0 10,712 100.0 47.6 per cent 2011: 42.9 per cent of the UK held investment property is located in London and Southeast England with 35.4 per cent 2011: 41.1 per cent located throughout the rest of the UK and the remaining 17.0 per cent 2011: 16.0 per cent located overseas.
v Loans The loans of the Groups UK insurance operations comprise: 2012 m 2011 m SAIF and PAC WPSF: Mortgage loans 1,311 1,036 Policy loans 16 20 Other loans 782 917 Total SAIF and PAC WPSF loans 2,109 1,973 Shareholder-backed: Mortgage loans 1,259 1,137 Other loans 5 5 Total shareholder-backed loans 1,264 1,142 Total UK insurance operations loans 3,373 3,115 The mortgage loans are collateralised by properties.
By carrying value, 86 per cent of the 1,259 million held for shareholder-backed business relates to lifetime equity release mortgage business which has an average loan to property value of 29 per cent.
Other loans held by the PAC with-profi ts fund are all commercial loans and comprise mainly syndicated loans.
vi Other investments comprise: 2012 m 2011 m Derivative assets 1,349 1,461 Partnerships in investment pools and other 3,227 3,107 4,576 4,568 Aft er including derivative liabilities of 1,007 million 2011: 1,298 million, which are also included in the statement of fi financial position, the overall derivative position was a net asset of 342 million 2011: 163 million.
Partnerships in investment pools and other comprise mainly investments held by the PAC with-profi ts fund.
These investments are primarily investments in limited partnerships and additionally, investments in property funds.
200 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D2: UK insurance operations continued b Reconciliation of movement in policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profi ts funds A reconciliation of the total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds of UK insurance operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Other shareholder-backed funds and subsidiaries Annuity SAIF and PAC and other with-profi ts Unit-linked long-term sub-fund liabilities business Total m m m m At 1 January 2011 91,773 21,671 22,273 135,717 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 81,586 21,671 22,273 125,530 Unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds 10,187 10,187 Premiums 3,413 1,854 1,721 6,988 Surrenders 2,285 1,851 119 4,255 Maturities Deaths 5,551 655 1,607 7,813 note a Net ows 4,423 652 5 5,080 Shareholders transfers post tax 216 216 Switches 237 237 note b Investment-related items and other movements 3,338 25 2,499 5,862 Foreign exchange translation differences 94 94 At 31 December 2011 1 January 2012 90,141 21,281 24,767 136,189 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 80,976 21,281 24,767 127,024 Unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds 9,165 9,165 Premiums 4,539 1,775 2,026 8,340 Surrenders 2,200 2,378 207 4,785 Maturities Deaths 5,664 658 1,687 8,009 note a Net ows 3,325 1,261 132 4,454 Shareholders transfers post tax 205 205 Switches 236 236 note b Investment-related items and other movements 8,656 1,941 2,409 13,006 Foreign exchange translation differences 98 98 At 31 December 2012 94,933 22,197 27,308 144,438 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 84,407 22,197 27,308 133,912 Unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds 10,526 10,526 Average policyholder liability balances 2012 82,691 21,739 26,038 130,468 2011 81,281 21,476 23,520 126,277 Averages have been based on opening and closing balances and exclude unallocated surplus of with-profi ts funds.
Notes a Net outfl ows decreased from 5,080 million in 2011 to 4,454 million in 2012.
An improvement in the net outfl ows of the with-profi ts business, following increased sales of with-profi ts bonds in the year, has been greater than the increase in outfl ows in the unit-linked business.
The levels of infl ows outfl ows for unit-linked business is driven by the activity of corporate pension schemes with transfers in or out from only one or two schemes infl uencing the level of fl ows in the year.
The net fl ows of negative 1,261 million in unit-linked business was a result of lower single premiums in and higher transfers out of this business in 2012. b Investment-related items and other movements of 13,006 million across fund types refl ected the continued strong performance of UK equity markets in 2012, as well as investment gains from debt securities following falling bond yields, and other asset classes.
The 8,264 million total debt securities held at 31 December 2012 2011: 7,615 million which are not externally rated are either internally rated or unrated.
These are analysed as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Internal ratings or unrated: AAA to A- 3,150 2,726 BBB to B- 3,752 3,773 Below Bor unrated 1,362 1,116 Total 8,264 7,615 The majority of unrated debt security investments were held in SAIF and the PAC with-pro ts sub-fund and relate to convertible debt and other investments which are not covered by ratings analysts, nor have an internal rating attributed to them.
Of the 2,296 million PRIL and other annuity and long-term business investments which are not externally rated, 6 million were internally rated AAA, 429 million AA, 737 million A, 895 million BBB, 115 million BB and 114 million were internally rated B and below or unrated.
During 2011 Standard & Poors withdrew its ratings of debt securities issued by a number of sovereigns.
Where these are no longer available Moodys ratings have been used.
This primarily impacts the UK and Asia insurance operations.
As detailed in note D2 h below, the primary sensitivity of IFRS basis pro t or loss and shareholders equity relates to non-linked shareholder-backed business which is represented by PRIL and other annuity and long-term business in the table above.
202 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D2: UK insurance operations continued d Products and guarantees Prudentials long-term products in the UK consist of life insurance, pension products and pension annuities.
These products are written primarily in: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A One of three separate sub-funds of the PAC long-term fund, namely the with-pro ts sub-fund WPSF, SAIF, and the non-pro t sub-fund: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Prudential Annuities Limited PAL, which is owned by the PAC with-pro ts sub-fund: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL, a shareholder-owned subsidiary: or A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Other shareholder-backed subsidiaries writing mainly non-pro t unit-linked business.
i With-profi ts products and PAC with-profi ts sub-fund Within the statement of financial position of UK insurance operations at 31 December 2012, as shown in note D2 a, there are policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of 87.1 billion 2011: 81.6 billion that relate to the WPSF.
These amounts include the liabilities and capital of Prudential Annuities Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the fund.
The WPSF mainly contains with-pro ts business but it also contains some non-pro t business unit-linked, term assurances and annuities.
The WPSFs pro ts are apportioned 90 per cent to its policyholders and 10 per cent to shareholders as surplus for distribution is determined via the annual actuarial valuation.
The WPSF held a provision of 47 million at 31 December 2012 2011: 90 million to honour guarantees on a small amount of guaranteed annuity products.
SAIFs exposure to guaranteed annuities is described below.
With-pro ts products provide returns to policyholders through bonuses that are smoothed.
There are two types of bonuses: annual and final.
Annual bonuses are declared once a year, and once credited, are guaranteed in accordance with the terms of the particular product.
Unlike annual bonuses, final bonuses are guaranteed only until the next bonus declaration.
The main factors that in uence the determination of bonus rates are the return on the investments of the with-pro ts fund, in ation, taxation, the expenses of the fund chargeable to policyholders and the degree to which investment returns are smoothed.
The overall rate of return earned on investments and the expectation of future investment returns are the most important in uences on bonus rates.
A high proportion of the assets backing the with-pro ts business are invested in equities and real estate.
If the financial strength of the with-pro ts business is affected, then a higher proportion of xed interest or similar assets might be held by the fund.
Further details on the determination of the two types of the bonuses: regular and final, the application of signi cant judgement, key assumptions and the degree of smoothing of investment returns in determining the bonus rates are provided below.
Regular bonus rates For regular bonuses, the bonus rates are determined for each type of policy primarily by targeting the bonus level at a prudent proportion of the long-term expected future investment return on underlying assets.
The expected future investment return is reduced as appropriate for each type of policy to allow for items such as expenses, charges, tax and shareholders transfers.
However, the rates declared may differ by product type, or by the date of payment of the premium, or date of issue of the policy, or if the accumulated annual bonuses are particularly high or low, relative to a prudent proportion of the achieved investment return.
When target bonus levels change the PAC board of directors PAC Board has regard to the overall strength of the long-term fund when determining the length of time over which it will seek to achieve the amended prudent target bonus level.
In normal investment conditions, PAC expects changes in regular bonus rates to be gradual over time.
However, the PAC Directors retain the discretion whether or not to declare a regular bonus each year, and there is no limit on the amount by which regular bonus rates can change.
Final bonus rates A final bonus which is normally declared yearly, may be added when a claim is paid or when units of a unitised product are realised.
The rates of final bonus usually vary by type of policy and by reference to the period, usually a year, in which the policy commences or each premium is paid.
These rates are determined by reference to the asset shares for the sample policies but subject to the smoothing approach as explained below.
In general, the same final bonus scale applies to maturity, death and surrender claims except that: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The total surrender value may be impacted by the application of a Market Value Reduction for accumulating with-pro ts policies and is the surrender bases for conventional with-pro ts business: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A For the SAIF and Scottish Amicable, the final bonus rates applicable on surrender may be adjusted to re ect expected future bonus rates.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 203 Application of signifi cant judgement The application of the above method for determining bonuses requires the PAC Board to apply signi cant judgement in many respects, including in particular the following: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Determining what constitutes fair treatment of customers: Prudential is required by UK law and regulation to consider the fair treatment of its customers in setting bonus levels.
The concept of determining what constitutes fair treatment, while established by statute, is not fide ned: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Smoothing of investment returns: This is an important feature of with-pro ts products.
Determining when particular circumstances, such as a signi cant rise or fall in market values, warrant variations in the standard bonus smoothing limits that apply in normal circumstances requires the PAC Board to exercise signi cant judgement: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Determining at what level to set bonuses to ensure that they are competitive: The overall return to policyholders is an important competitive measure for attracting new business.
Key assumptions As noted above, the overall rate of return on investments and the expectation of future investment returns are the most important in uences in bonus rates, subject to the smoothing described below.
Prudential determines the assumptions to apply in respect of these factors, including the effects of reasonably likely changes in key assumptions, in the context of the overarching discretionary and smoothing framework that applies to its with-pro ts business as described above.
As such, it is not possible to speci cally quantify the effects of each of these assumptions, or of reasonably likely changes in these assumptions.
Prudentials approach, in applying signi cant judgement and discretion in relation to determining bonus rates, is consistent conceptually with the approach adopted by other rms that manage a with-pro ts business.
It is also consistent with the requirements of UK law, which require all UK rms that carry out a with-pro ts business to fide ne, and make publicly available, the Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM that are applied in the management of their with-pro ts funds.
Accordingly, Prudentials PPFM contains an explanation of how it determines regular and final bonus rates within the discretionary framework that applies to all with-pro ts policies, subject to the general legislative requirements applicable.
The purpose of Prudentials PPFM is therefore to: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Explain the nature and extent of the discretion available: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Show how competing or con icting interests or expectations of different groups and generations of policyholders, and policyholders and shareholders are managed so that all policyholders and shareholders are treated fairly: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Provide a knowledgeable observer eg a financial adviser with an understanding of the material risks and rewards from starting and continuing to invest in a with-pro ts policy with Prudential.
Furthermore, in accordance with industry-wide regulatory requirements, the PAC Board has appointed: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A An Actuarial Function Holder who provides the PAC Board with all actuarial advice: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A With-Pro ts Actuary whose speci c duty is to advise the PAC Board on the reasonableness and proportionality of the manner in which its discretion has been exercised in applying the PPFM and the manner in which any con icting interests have been addressed: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A With-Pro ts Committee of independent individuals, which assesses the degree of compliance with the PPFM and the manner in which con icting rights have been addressed.
Smoothing of investment return In determining bonus rates for the UK with-pro ts policies, smoothing is applied to the allocation of the overall earnings of the UK with-pro ts fund of which the investment return is a signi cant element.
The smoothing approach differs between accumulating and conventional with-pro ts policies to re ect the different contract features.
In normal circumstances, Prudential does not expect most payout values on policies of the same duration to change by more than 10 per cent up or down from one year to the next, although some larger changes may occur to balance payout values between different policies.
Greater exibility may be required in certain circumstances, for example, following a signi cant rise or fall in market values, and in such situations the PAC Board may decide to vary the standard bonus smoothing limits in order to protect the overall interests of policyholders.
204 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D2: UK insurance operations continued The degree of smoothing is illustrated numerically by comparing in the following table the relatively smoothed level of policyholder bonuses declared as part of the surplus for distribution, with the more volatile movement in investment return and other items of income and expenditure of the UK component of the PAC with-pro ts fund for each year presented.
2012 m 2011 m Net income of the fund: Investment return 8,350 4,094 Claims incurred 6,857 6,411 Movement in policyholder liabilities 3,989 614 Add back policyholder bonuses for the year as shown below 1,865 1,945 Claims incurred and movement in policyholder liabilities including charge for provision for asset shares and excluding policyholder bonuses 8,981 5,080 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 4,558 3,404 Other income 39 17 Acquisition costs and other expenditure 740 696 Tax charge 292 63 Net income of the fund before movement in unallocated surplus 2,934 1,676 Movement in unallocated surplus 863 485 Surplus for distribution 2,071 2,161 Surplus for distribution allocated as follows: 90% policyholders bonus as shown above 1,865 1,945 10% shareholders transfers 206 216 2,071 2,161 ii Annuity business Prudentials conventional annuities include level, xed-increase and in ation-linked annuities, the link being to the Retail Prices Index RPI in the majority of cases.
They are mainly written within the subsidiaries PAL, PRIL, the PAC non-pro t sub-fund and the PAC with-pro ts sub-fund, but there are some annuity liabilities in Prudential Pensions Limited and SAIF.
Prudentials xed-increase annuities incorporate automatic increases in annuity payments by xed amounts over the policyholders life.
The RPI annuities that Prudential offers provide for a regular annuity payment to which an additional amount is added periodically based on the increase in the UK RPI.
Prudentials with-pro ts annuities, which are written in the WPSF, combine the income features of annuity products with the investment smoothing features of with-pro ts products and enable policyholders to obtain exposure to investment return on the WPSFs equity shares, property and other investment categories over time.
Policyholders select a required smoothed return bonus from the speci c range Prudential offers for the particular product.
The amount of the annuity payment each year depends upon the relationship between the required smoothed return bonus rate selected by the policyholder when the product is purchased and the smoothed return bonus rates Prudential subsequently declares each year during the term of the product.
If the total bonus rates fall below the anticipated rate, then the annuity income falls.
At 31 December 2012, 41.7 billion 2011: 38.3 billion of investments relate to non-pro t annuity business of the PAC WPSF including PAL and the annuity business of PRIL.
These investments are predominantly in debt securities including retail price index-linked bonds to match retail price index-linked annuities, loans, deposits and property, and are duration matched with the estimated duration of the liabilities they support.
iii SAIF SAIF is a ring-fenced sub-fund of the PAC long-term fund formed following the acquisition of the mutually owned Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society in 1997.
No new business may be written in SAIF, although regular premiums are still being paid on policies in force at the time of the acquisition and incremental premiums are permitted on these policies.
The fund is solely for the bene t of policyholders of SAIF.
Shareholders have no interest in the pro ts of this fund although they are entitled to asset management fees on this business.
The process for determining policyholder bonuses of SAIF with-pro ts policies, which constitute the vast majority of obligations of the funds, is similar to that for the with-pro ts policies of the WPSF.
However, in addition, the surplus assets in SAIF are allocated to policies in an orderly and equitable distribution over time as enhancements to policyholder bene ts ie in excess of those based on asset share.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 205 Provision is made for the risks attaching to some SAIF unitised with-pro ts policies that have Market Value Reduction MVR-free dates and for those SAIF products which have a guaranteed minimum bene t on death or maturity of premiums accumulated at 4 per cent per annum.
The Groups main exposure to guaranteed annuities in the UK is through SAIF and a provision of 371 million was held in SAIF at 31 December 2012 2011: 370 million to honour the guarantees.
As SAIF is a separate sub-fund solely for the bene t of policyholders of SAIF, this provision has no impact on the financial position of the Groups shareholders equity.
iv Unit-linked non-annuity and other non-profi t business Prudential UK insurance operations also have an extensive book of unit-linked policies of varying types and provide a range of other non-pro t business such as credit life and protection contracts.
These contracts do not contain signi cant financial guarantees.
There are no guaranteed maturity values or guaranteed annuity options on unit-linked policies except for minor amounts for certain policies linked to cash units within SAIF.
e Process for setting assumptions and determining contract liabilities i Overview The calculation of the contract liabilities involves the setting of assumptions for future experience.
This is done following detailed review of the relevant experience including in particular mortality, expenses, tax, economic assumptions and, where applicable, persistency.
For with-pro ts business written in the WPSF or SAIF, a market consistent valuation is performed as described in section ii below.
Additional assumptions required are for persistency and the management actions under which the fund is managed.
Assumptions used for a market-consistent valuation typically do not contain margins, whereas those used for the valuation of other classes of business do.
Mortality assumptions are set based on the results of the most recent experience analysis looking at the experience over recent years of the relevant business.
For non-pro t business, a margin for adverse deviation is added.
Different assumptions are applied for different product groups.
For annuitant mortality, assumptions for current mortality rates are based on recent experience investigations and expected future improvements in mortality.
The expected future improvements are based on recent experience and projections of the business and industry experience generally.
Maintenance and, for some classes of business, termination expense assumptions are expressed as per policy amounts.
They are set based on the expenses incurred during the year, including an allowance for ongoing investment expenditure and allocated between entities and product groups in accordance with the operations internal cost allocation model.
For non-pro t business a margin for adverse deviation is added to this amount.
Expense in ation assumptions are set consistent with the economic basis and based on the difference between yields on nominal gilts and index-linked gilts.
The actual renewal expenses incurred on behalf of SAIF by other Group companies are recharged in full to SAIF.
The assumptions for asset management expenses are based on the charges speci ed in agreements with the Groups asset management operations, plus a margin for adverse deviation for non-pro t business.
Tax assumptions are set equal to current rates of taxation.
For non-pro t business excluding unit-linked business, the valuation interest rates used to discount the liabilities are based on the yields as at the valuation date on the assets backing the technical provisions.
For xed interest securities the gross redemption yield is used, except for the PAL including the business recaptured by PAC WPSF in 2011 and PRIL annuity business, where the internal rate of return of the assets backing the liabilities is used.
Properties are valued using the rental yield, and for equities it is the greater of the dividend yield and the average of the dividend yield and the earnings yield.
An adjustment is made to the yield on non risk-free xed interest securities and property to re ect credit risk.
To calculate the non-unit reserves for linked business, assumptions have been set for the gross unit growth rate and the rate of in ation of maintenance expenses, as well as for the valuation interest rate as described above.
ii WPSF and SAIF The policyholder liabilities reported for the WPSF are primarily for two broad types of business.
These are accumulating and conventional with-pro ts contracts.
The policyholder liabilities of the WPSF are accounted for under FRS 27.
The provisions have been determined on a basis consistent with the detailed methodology included in regulations contained in the FSAs rules for the determination of reserves on the FSAs realistic Peak 2 basis.
In aggregate, the regime has the effect of placing a value on the liabilities of UK with-pro ts contracts, which re ects the amounts expected to be paid based on the current value of investments held by the with-pro ts funds and current circumstances.
These contracts are a combination of insurance and investment contracts with discretionary participation features, as fide ned by IFRS 4.
The FSAs Peak 2 calculation under the realistic regime requirement is explained further in note A3 2 a under the UK regulated with-pro ts section.
The contract liabilities for with-pro ts business also require assumptions for persistency.
These are set based on the results of recent experience analysis.
206 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D2: UK insurance operations continued iii Annuity business Credit risk provisions For IFRS reporting, the results for UK shareholder-backed annuity business are particularly sensitive to the allowances made for credit risk.
The allowance is re ected in the deduction from the valuation rate of interest for discounting projected future annuity payments to policyholders that would have otherwise applied.
Since mid-2007 there has been a signi cant increase in the actual and perceived credit risk associated with corporate bonds as re ected in the signi cant widening that has occurred in corporate bond spreads.
Although bond spreads over swap rates have narrowed from their peak in March 2009, they are still high compared with the levels seen in the years immediately preceding the start of the dislocated markets in 2007.
The allowance that should therefore be made for credit risk remains a particular area of judgement.
The additional yield received on corporate bonds relative to swaps can be broken into the following constituent parts: a The expected level of future defaults: b The credit risk premium that is required to compensate for the potential volatility in default levels: c The liquidity premium that is required to compensate for the lower liquidity of corporate bonds relative to swaps: and d The mark to market risk premium that is required to compensate for the potential volatility in corporate bond spreads and hence market values at the time of sale.
The sum of c and d is often referred to as liquidity premium.
The allowance for credit risk comprises i an amount for long-term best estimate defaults, and ii additional provisions for credit risk premium, downgrade resilience and short-term defaults.
The weighted components of the bond spread over swap rates for shareholder-backed xed and linked annuity business for PRIL at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, based on the asset mix at the relevant balance sheet date are shown below.
Adjustment Pillar 1 from regulatory regulatory to basis IFRS basis IFRS 31 December 2012 bps bps bps note i Bond spread over swap rates 161 161 Credit risk allowance note ii Long-term expected defaults 15 15 note iii Additional provisions 50 23 27 Total credit risk allowance 65 23 42 Liquidity premium 96 23 119 Adjustment Pillar 1 from regulatory regulatory to basis IFRS basis IFRS 31 December 2011 bps bps bps note i Bond spread over swap rates 201 201 Credit risk allowance note ii Long-term expected defaults 15 15 note iii Additional provisions 51 24 27 Total credit risk allowance 66 24 42 Liquidity premium 135 24 159 Notes i Bond spread over swap rates refl ect market observed data.
ii Long-term expected defaults are derived by applying Moodys data from 1970 to 2009 and the defi nition of the credit rating used is the second highest credit rating published by Moodys, Standard & Poors and Fitch.
iii Additional provisions comprise credit risk premium, which is derived from Moodys data from 1970 to 2009, an allowance for a one-notch downgrade of the portfolio subject to credit risk and an additional allowance for short-term defaults.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 207 The prudent Pillar 1 regulatory basis re ects the overriding objective of maintaining suf cient provisions and capital to ensure payments to policyholders can be made.
The approach for IFRS aims to establish liabilities that are closer to best estimate.
Movement in the credit risk allowance for PRIL for the year ended 31 December 2012 The movement during 2012 of the average basis points allowance for PRIL on Pillar 1 regulatory and IFRS bases are as follows: Pillar 1 regulatory basis IFRS bps bps Total Total Total allowance for credit risk at 31 December 2011 66 42 Credit rating changes 3 2 Asset trading 1 1 New business and other 5 3 Total allowance for credit risk at 31 December 2012 65 42 For periods prior to full year 2011, favourable credit experience was retained in short-term allowances for credit risk on both the Pillar 1 and IFRS bases.
From full year 2011 onwards, the methodology applied is to continue to retain such surplus experience in the IFRS credit provisions but not for Pillar 1.
Overall the movement has led to the credit allowance for Pillar 1 purposes to be 40 per cent 2011: 33 per cent of the bond spread over swap rates.
For IFRS purposes it represents 26 per cent 2011: 20 per cent of the bond spread over swap rates.
The reserves for credit risk allowance at 31 December 2012 for the UK shareholder annuity fund were as follows: Pillar 1 regulatory basis IFRS bn bn Total Total PRIL 1.9 1.2 PAC non-pro t sub-fund 0.2 0.1 Total 31 December 2012 2.1 1.3 Total 31 December 2011 2.0 1.3 Mortality The mortality assumptions are set in light of recent population and internal experience.
The assumptions used are percentages of standard actuarial mortality tables with an allowance for future mortality improvements.
Where annuities have been sold on an enhanced basis to impaired lives an additional age adjustment is made.
The percentages of the standard table used are selected according to the source of business.
In 2009, Prudentials annuity business liabilities were determined using the Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI medium cohort projections with a oor.
Since 2009, new mortality projection models have been released annually by the CMI.
The CMI 2009 model was used to produce the 2010 and 2011 results, with calibration to re ect an appropriate view of future mortality improvements.
The CMI 2011 model was used to produce the 2012 results, again with calibration to re ect an appropriate view of future mortality improvements.
208 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D2: UK insurance operations continued The tables and range of percentages used are set out in the following tables: Non-profi t annuities within the WPSF including PAL PRIL 2012 Males Females Males Females In payment 93% 99% PCMA00 89% 101% PCFA00 92% 96% PCMA00 84% 97% PCFA00 with future with future with future with future improvements in line improvements in line improvements in line improvements in line with Prudentials own with Prudentials own with Prudentials own with Prudentials own calibration of the CMI calibration of the CMI calibration of the CMI calibration of the CMI 2011 mortality model, 2011 mortality model, 2011 mortality model, 2011 mortality model, with a long-term with a long-term with a long-term with a long-term improvement rate improvement rate improvement rate improvement rate of 2.25%.
In deferment AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years Non-profi t annuities within the WPSF including PAL PRIL 2011 Males Females Males Females In payment 92% 98% PCMA00 with 88% 100% PCFA00 with 93% 94% PCMA00 with 86% 96% PCFA00 with future improvements in future improvements in future improvements in future improvements in line with Prudentials line with Prudentials line with Prudentials line with Prudentials own calibration of the own calibration of the own calibration of the own calibration of the CMI 2009 mortality CMI 2009 mortality CMI 2009 mortality CMI 2009 mortality model, with a long-term model, with a long-term model, with a long-term model, with a long-term improvement rate improvement rate improvement rate improvement rate of 2.25%.
In deferment AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years Non-profi t annuities within the WPSF including PAL PRIL 2010 Males Females Males Females In payment 92% 98% PCMA00 with 88% 100% PCFA00 with 94% 95% PCMA00 with 86% 97% PCFA00 with future improvements in future improvements in future improvements in future improvements in line with Prudentials line with Prudentials line with Prudentials line with Prudentials own calibration of the own calibration of the own calibration of the own calibration of the CMI 2009 mortality CMI 2009 mortality CMI 2009 mortality CMI 2009 mortality model, with a long-term model, with a long-term model, with a long-term model, with a long-term improvement rate improvement rate improvement rate improvement rate of 2.25%.
In deferment AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 209 iv Unit-linked non-annuity and other non-profi t business The majority of other long-term business written in the UK insurance operations is unit-linked business or other business with similar features.
For these contracts, the attaching liability re ects the unit value obligation and provision for expenses and mortality risk.
The latter component is determined by applying mortality assumptions on a basis that is appropriate for the policyholder pro le.
For unit-linked business, the assets covering unit liabilities are exposed to market risk, but the residual risk when considering the unit-linked liabilities and assets together is limited to the effect on fund-based charges.
For those contracts where the level of insurance risk is insigni cant, the assets and liabilities arising under the contracts are distinguished between those that relate to the financial instrument liability and acquisition costs and deferred income that relate to the component of the contract that relates to investment management.
Acquisition costs and deferred income are recognised consistent with the level of service provision in line with the requirements of IAS 18. f Reinsurance The Groups UK insurance business cedes only minor amounts of business outside the Group.
During 2012, reinsurance premiums for externally ceded business were 135 million 2011: 132 million and reinsurance recoverable assets were 608 million 2011: 589 million in aggregate.
The gains and losses recognised in pro t and loss for the 2012 and 2011 contracts were immaterial.
g Eff ect of changes in assumptions used to measure insurance assets and liabilities Credit risk There has been no change of approach in the setting of assumption levels.
However, changes in the portfolio have given rise to altered levels of credit risk allowance as set out in note D2 e iii.
2012 Other operating assumption changes In 2012, for the shareholder-backed business, the net effect of assumption changes, other than the allowance for credit risk described above was a charge to shareholder results of 17 million.
This comprises the aggregate effect of strengthening of mortality assumptions for the annuity business, offsetting releases of margins and altered expenses and other assumptions.
For the with-pro ts sub-fund, the aggregate effect of assumption changes in 2012 was a net charge to unallocated surplus of 90 million, relating to changes in mortality and offsetting releases of margins, expense, persistency and economic assumptions.
2011 Other operating assumption changes In 2011, for the shareholder-backed business, the aggregate effect of assumption changes other than the allowance for credit risk described above, was a net charge to the shareholder results of 9 million, comprising a number of individually small assumption changes.
For the with-pro ts sub-fund, the aggregate effect of assumption changes in 2011 was a net charge to unallocated surplus of 59 million, relating to changes in mortality, expense, persistency and economic assumptions.
h Exposure and sensitivity of IFRS basis profi t or loss and shareholders equity to market and other risks i With-profi ts business SAIF Shareholders have no interest in the pro ts of the ring-fenced fund of SAIF but are entitled to the asset management fees paid on the assets of the fund.
With-profi ts sub-fund business Shareholder UK results of UK with-pro ts business including non-participating annuity business of the WPSF and of Prudential Annuities Limited PAL, which is owned by the WPSF are only sensitive to market risk through the indirect effect of investment performance on declared policyholder bonuses.
The investment assets of PAC with-pro ts funds are subject to market risk.
Changes in their carrying value, net of related changes to asset-share liabilities of with-pro t contracts, affect the level of unallocated surplus of the fund.
Therefore, the level of unallocated surplus is particularly sensitive to the level of investment returns on the portion of the assets that represents surplus.
The effects for 2012 and 2011 are demonstrated in note D5.
However, as unallocated surplus is accounted for as a liability under IFRS, movements in its value do not affect shareholders pro t and equity.
210 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D2: UK insurance operations continued The shareholder results of the UK with-pro ts fund correspond to the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses declared on the with-pro ts business which is currently one-ninth of the cost of bonuses declared.
Investment performance is a key driver of bonuses, and hence the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses.
Due to the smoothed basis of bonus declaration, the sensitivity to investment performance in a single year is low relative to movements in the period to period performance.
However, over multiple periods, it is important.
Mortality and other insurance risk are relatively minor factors in the determination of the bonus rates.
Adverse persistency experience can affect the level of pro tability from with-pro ts but in any given one year, the shareholders share of cost of bonus may only be marginally affected.
However, altered persistency trends may affect future expected shareholder transfers.
ii Shareholder-backed annuity business The principal items affecting the IFRS results of the UK shareholder-backed annuity business are mortality experience and assumptions, and credit risk.
The assets covering the liabilities are principally debt securities and other investments that are held to match the expected duration and payment characteristics of the policyholder liabilities.
These liabilities are valued for IFRS reporting purposes by applying discount rates that re ect the market rates of return attaching to the covering assets.
Asset liability duration matching is reviewed regularly.
Except to the extent of any asset liability duration mismatch and exposure to credit risk, the sensitivity of the Groups results to market risk for movements in the carrying value of the liabilities and covering assets is broadly neutral on a net basis.
The main market risk sensitivity for the UK shareholder-backed annuity business arises from interest rate risk on the debt securities which substantially represent shareholders equity.
This shareholders equity comprises the net assets held within the long-term fund of the company that cover regulatory basis liabilities that are not recognised for IFRS reporting purposes, for example, contingency reserves and shareholder capital held outside the long-term fund.
In summary, pro ts from shareholder-backed annuity business are most sensitive to: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The extent to which the duration of the assets held closely matches the expected duration of the liabilities under the contracts: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Actual versus expected default rates on assets held: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The difference between long-term rates of return on corporate bonds and risk-free rates: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The variance between actual and expected mortality experience: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The extent to which changes to the assumed rate of improvements in mortality give rise to changes in the measurement of liabilities: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Changes in renewal expense levels.
A decrease in assumed mortality rates of 1 per cent would decrease gross pro ts by approximately 74 million 2011: 64 million.
A decrease in credit default assumptions of five basis points would increase gross pro ts by 157 million 2011: 137 million.
A decrease in renewal expenses excluding asset management expenses of 5 per cent would increase gross pro ts by 25 million 2011: 25 million.
The effect on pro ts would be approximately symmetrical for changes in assumptions that are directionally opposite to those explained above.
iii Unit-linked and other business Unit-linked and other business represents a comparatively small proportion of the in-force business of the UK insurance operations.
Due to the matching of policyholder liabilities to attaching asset value movements, the UK unit-linked business is not directly affected by market or credit risk liabilities of other business and are also broadly insensitive to market risk.
Pro ts from unit-linked and similar contracts primarily arise from the excess of charges to policyholders for management of assets under the Companys stewardship, over expenses incurred.
The former is most sensitive to the net accretion of funds under management as a function of new business and lapse and timing of death.
The accounting impact of the latter is dependent upon the amortisation of acquisition costs in line with the emergence of margins for insurance contracts and amortisation in line with service provision for the investment management component of investment contracts.
By virtue of the design features of most of the contracts which provide low levels of mortality cover, the pro ts are relatively insensitive to changes in mortality experience.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 211 iv Shareholder exposure to interest rate risk and other market risk By virtue of the fund structure, product features and basis of accounting, the policyholder liabilities of the UK insurance operations are, except for pension annuity business, not generally exposed to interest rate risk.
At 31 December 2012, pension annuity liabilities accounted for 98 per cent 2011: 98 per cent of UK shareholder-backed business liabilities.
For pension annuity business, liabilities are exposed to interest rate risk.
However, the net exposure to the PAC WPSF for PAL and shareholders for annuity liabilities of PRIL and the non-pro t sub-fund is very substantially ameliorated by virtue of the close matching of assets with appropriate duration.
The level of matching from period to period can vary depending on management actions and economic factors so it is possible for a degree of mis-matching pro ts or losses to arise.
The close matching by the Group of assets of appropriate duration to annuity liabilities is based on maintaining economic and regulatory capital.
The measurement of liabilities under capital reporting requirements and IFRS is not the same with contingency reserves and some other margins for prudence within the assumptions required under the FSA regulatory solvency basis not included for IFRS reporting purposes.
As a result, IFRS equity is higher than regulatory capital and therefore, more sensitive to interest rate and credit risk.
The estimated sensitivity of the UK non-linked shareholder-backed business principally pension annuities business to a movement in interest rates is as follows: 2012 m 2011 m A A An An A A An An decrease decrease increase increase decrease decrease increase increase of 2% of 1% of 1% of 2% of 2% of 1% of 1% of 2% Carrying value of debt securities and derivatives 9,006 3,993 3,265 5,983 7,676 3,426 2,820 5,178 Policyholder liabilities 7,878 3,513 2,867 5,235 6,842 3,060 2,510 4,593 Related deferred tax effects 259 110 91 172 208 91 77 146 Net sensitivity of pro t after tax and shareholders equity 869 370 307 576 626 275 233 439 In addition the shareholder-backed portfolio of UK non-linked insurance operations covering liabilities and shareholders equity includes equity securities and investment property.
Excluding any second order effects on the measurement of the liabilities for future cash ows to the policyholder, a fall in their value would have given rise to the following effects on pre-tax pro t, pro t after tax and shareholders equity.
2012 m 2011 m A decrease A decrease A decrease A decrease of 20% of 10% of 20% of 10% Pre-tax pro t 316 158 319 160 Related deferred tax effects 73 36 80 40 Net sensitivity of pro t after tax and shareholders equity 243 122 239 120 A 10 or 20 per cent increase in their value would have an approximately equal and opposite effect on pro t and shareholders equity to the sensitivities shown above.
The market risk sensitivities shown above re ect the impact of temporary market movements and therefore, the primary effect of such movements would, in the Groups segmental analysis of pro ts, be included within the short-term uctuations in investment returns.
In the equity risk sensitivity analysis shown above, the Group has considered the impact of an instantaneous 20 per cent fall in equity markets.
If equity markets were to fall by more than 20 per cent, the Group believes that this would not be an instantaneous fall, but rather, this would be expected to occur over a period of time during which the Group would be able to put in place mitigating management actions.
212 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D2: UK insurance operations continued i Duration of liabilities With the exception of most unitised with-pro ts bonds and other whole of life contracts the majority of the contracts of the UK insurance operations have a contract term.
However, in effect, the maturity term of contracts re ects the earlier of death, maturity, or lapsation.
In addition, with-pro ts contract liabilities as noted in note D2 e include projected future bonuses based on current investment values.
The actual amounts payable will vary with future investment performance of SAIF and the WPSF.
The tables above show the carrying value of the policyholder liabilities.
The tables in the accompanying notes below show the maturity pro le of the cash ows for insurance contracts, as fide ned by IFRS, ie those containing signi cant insurance risk, and investment contracts, which do not.
2012 m Annuity business With-profi ts business insurance contracts Other Non-profi t annuities within WPSF Insurance In vestment including Insurance In vestment contractscontracts Total PAL PRIL Total contracts contracts Total T OTAL Policyholders liabilities 37,698 33,486 71,184 13,223 20,114 33,337 13,231 16,160 29,391 133,912 2012 % Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 45 39 42 30 26 27 35 28 31 36 5 to 10 years 24 25 24 24 22 22 25 23 24 24 10 to 15 years 13 17 15 18 17 18 17 17 17 16 15 to 20 years 8 11 10 12 13 13 10 12 11 11 20 to 25 years 5 6 5 8 9 9 6 9 8 7 over 25 years 5 2 4 8 13 11 7 11 9 6 2011 m Annuity business With-profi ts business insurance contracts Other Non-profi t annuities within WPSF Insurance In vestment including Insurance In vestment contractscontracts Total PAL PRIL Total contracts contracts Total T OTAL Policyholder liabilities 38,974 29,365 68,339 12,637 18,236 30,873 12,885 14,927 27,812 127,024 2011 % Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 47 32 41 29 25 27 34 28 31 35 5 to 10 years 24 26 25 24 22 22 25 22 24 24 10 to 15 years 13 19 16 18 18 18 18 18 18 17 15 to 20 years 8 14 10 12 13 13 11 12 11 11 20 to 25 years 5 7 6 8 10 9 7 9 7 7 over 25 years 3 2 2 9 12 11 5 11 9 6 Notes i The cash fl ow projections of expected benefi t payments used in the maturity profi le table above are from value of in-force business and exclude the value of future new business, including future vesting of internal pension contracts.
ii Benefi t payments do not refl ect the pattern of bonuses and shareholder transfers in respect of the with-profi ts business.
iii Investment contracts under Other comprise certain unit-linked and similar contracts accounted for under IAS 39 and IAS 18. iv For business with no maturity term included within the contracts, for example with-profi ts investment bonds such as Prudence Bonds, an assumption is made as to likely duration based on prior experience.
v The maturity tables shown above have been prepared on a discounted basis.
Details of undiscounted cash fl ow for investment contracts are shown in note G2.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 213 D3: US insurance operations a Summary results and statement of fi financial position i Results and movements in shareholders equity 2012 m 2011 m Operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns 964 651 Short-term uctuations in investment returns 90 167 I1 Amortisation of acquisition accounting adjustments arising on the purchase of REALIC 19 Pro t before shareholder tax 855 484 Tax 234 127 Pro t for the year 621 357 2012 m 2011 m Pro t for the year as above 621 357 Items recognised in other comprehensive income: Exchange movements 181 35 Unrealised valuation movements on securities classi ed as available-for-sale: Unrealised holding gains arising during the year 930 912 Deduct net gains included in the income statement 68 101 Total unrealised valuation movements 862 811 Related change in amortisation of deferred acquisition costs 270 275 Related tax 205 187 Total other comprehensive income 206 384 Total comprehensive income for the year 827 741 Dividends, interest payments to central companies and other movements 245 330 Net increase in equity 582 411 Shareholders equity at beginning of year: As previously reported 4,271 3,815 Effect of change in accounting policy for deferred acquisition costs 510 465 After effect of change 3,761 3,350 Shareholders equity at end of year 4,343 3,761 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
Included within the movements in shareholders equity is a net increase in value of Jacksons debt securities classi ed as available-for-sale under IAS 39 of 862 million 2011: 811 million.
With the exception of debt securities for US insurance operations classi ed as available-for-sale under IAS 39, unrealised value movements on the Groups investments are booked within the income statement.
However, for debt securities classi ed as available-for-sale, unless impaired, fair value movements are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Realised gains and losses, including impairments, are recorded in the income statement.
This classi cation is applied for most of the debt securities of the Groups US operations.
In 2012, Jackson recorded 37 million 2011: 62 million of impairment losses arising from: 2012 m 2011 m Residential mortgage-backed securities 8 21 Public xed income 2 Other 27 41 37 62 214 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D3: US insurance operations continued Jacksons portfolio of debt securities is managed proactively with credit analysts closely monitoring and reporting on the credit quality of its holdings.
Jackson continues to review its investments on a case-by-case basis to determine whether any decline in fair value represents an impairment.
In addition, investments in structured securities are subject to a rigorous review of their future estimated cash ows, including expected and stress case scenarios, to identify potential shortfalls in contractual payments both interest and principal.
Impairment charges are recorded on structured securities when the Company forecasts a contractual payment shortfall.
Situations where such a shortfall would not lead to a recognition of a loss are rare.
However, some structured securities do not have a single determined set of future cash ows and instead, there can be a reasonable range of estimates that could potentially emerge.
With this variability, there could be instances where the projected cash ow shortfall under managements base case set of assumptions is so minor that relatively small and justi able changes to the base case assumptions would eliminate the need for an impairment loss to be recognised.
The impairment loss re ects the difference between the fair value and book value.
In 2012, there was a movement in the statement of financial position value for debt securities classi ed as available-for-sale from a net unrealised gain of 2,057 million to a net unrealised gain of 2,807 million.
The gross unrealised gain in the statement of financial position increased from 2,303 million at 31 December 2011 to 2,985 million at 31 December 2012, while the gross unrealised loss decreased from 246 million at 31 December 2011 to 178 million at 31 December 2012.
Available for sale securities 2012 m 2011 m Changes in Foreign unrealised exchange appreciation translation Refl ected as part of movement in consolidated statement of comprehensive income Assets fair valued at below book value Book value 4,551 2,455 Unrealised loss gain 178 59 9 246 Fair value as included in statement of financial position 4,373 2,209 Assets fair valued at or above book value Book value 25,467 22,504 Unrealised gain loss 2,985 803 121 2,303 Fair value as included in statement of financial position 28,452 24,807 Total Book value 30,018 24,959 Net unrealised gain loss 2,807 862 112 2,057 Fair value as included in statement of financial position 32,825 27,016 Book value represents cost amortised cost of the debt securities.
Translated at the average rate of US$1.5849: 1.00 Debt securities for US operations included in the statement of fi financial position at 31 December 2012 comprise: 2012 m 2011 m Available-for-sale 32,825 27,016 Fair value through pro t and loss: Securities of consolidated investment funds 6 Securities held to back liabilities for funds withheld under reinsurance arrangement 168 32,993 27,022 Included within the movement in gross unrealised losses for the debt securities of Jackson of 59 million 2011: 122 million as shown above was a net decrease in value of 33 million 2011: 12 million increase relating to the sub-prime and Alt-A securities as referred to in section B5.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 215 ii Statement of fi financial position 31 Dec 2012 m 31 Dec 2011 m Variable annuity separate account Fixed annuity, assets and GIC and other liabilities business Total Total note i note i Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Deferred acquisition costs and other intangibles 3,222 3,222 3,115 Total 3,222 3,222 3,115 Deferred tax assets 1,889 1,889 1,392 note vi Other non-investment and non-cash assets 6,792 6,792 1,542 Investments of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 24 24 35 Financial investments: note ii Loans 6,235 6,235 4,110 note v Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 49,298 253 49,551 38,036 Debt securities 32,993 32,993 27,022 note iii Other investments 2,296 2,296 2,376 Deposits 211 211 167 Total investments 49,298 42,012 91,310 71,746 Properties held for sale 3 Cash and cash equivalents 513 513 271 Total assets 49,298 54,428 103,726 78,069 Equity and liabilities Equity note iii Shareholders equity 4,343 4,343 3,761 Total equity 4,343 4,343 3,761 Liabilities Policyholder: Contract liabilities including amounts in respect of contracts note iv classi ed as investment contracts under IFRS 4 49,298 42,963 92,261 69,189 Total 49,298 42,963 92,261 69,189 Core structural borrowings of shareholdernanced operations 153 153 160 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholdernanced operations 26 26 127 Deferred tax liabilities 2,168 2,168 1,818 note vi Other non-insurance liabilities 4,775 4,775 3,014 Total liabilities 49,298 50,085 99,383 74,308 Total equity and liabilities 49,298 54,428 103,726 78,069 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
The statement of fi financial position at 31 December 2012 includes the assets and liabilities of the acquired REALIC business.
Details of the acquisition are described in note I1.
216 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D3: US insurance operations continued Notes i Assets and liabilities attaching to variable annuity business that are not held in the separate account are shown within other business.
ii Loans The loans of the Groups US insurance operations comprise: 2012 m 2011 m Mortgage loans 3,543 3,559 Policy loans 2,692 551 Total US insurance operations loans 6,235 4,110 All of the mortgage loans are commercial mortgage loans which are collateralised by properties.
The property types are industrial, multi-family residential, suburban offi ce, retail and hotel.
The breakdown by property type is as follows: 2012 % 2011 % Industrial 29 28 Multi-family residential 25 23 Of ce 19 19 Retail 17 19 Hotels 10 11 100 100 The US insurance operations commercial mortgage loan portfolio does not include any single-family residential mortgage loans and is therefore, not exposed to the risk of defaults associated with residential sub-prime mortgage loans.
The average loan size is 6.3 million 2011: 6.6 million.
The portfolio has a current estimated average loan to value of 65 per cent 2011: 68 per cent which provides signifi cant cushion to withstand substantial declines in value.
At 31 December 2012, Jackson had mortgage loans with a carrying value of 78 million where the contractual terms of the agreements had been restructured.
In addition to the regular impairment review aff orded all loans in the portfolio, restructured loans are also reviewed for impairment.
An impairment will be recorded if the expected cash fl ows under the newly restructured terms discounted at the original yield the pre-structured interest rate are below the carrying value of the loan.
The policy loans are fully secured by individual life insurance policies or annuity policies.
The increase in 2012 refl ects the purchase of REALIC as explained in note I1.
The policy loans from the purchase of REALIC amounted to 1,842 million at 31 December 2012, and are accounted for at fair value through profi t and loss as described above.
All other policy loans are accounted for at amortised cost, less any impairment.
iii Other investments comprise: 2012 m 2011 m G3 Derivative assets 1,546 1,677 Partnerships in investment pools and other 750 699 2,296 2,376 In the US, Prudential uses derivatives: To reduce interest rate risk: To facilitate effi cient portfolio management to match liabilities under annuity policies: and For certain equity-based product management activities.
Aft er taking account of the derivative liabilities of 645 million 2011: 887 million, which are also included in Other non-insurance liabilities, the derivative position for US operations is a net asset of 901 million 2011: 790 million.
Partnerships in investment pools and other comprise primarily investments in limited partnerships.
These include interests in the PPM America Private Equity Fund and diversifi ed investments in 167 2011: 167 other partnerships by independent money managers that generally invest in various equities and fi xed income loans and securities.
iv Summary policyholder liabilities net of reinsurance and reserves at 31 December 2012 The policyholder liabilities, net of reinsurers share of 6,076 million 2011: 907 million, refl ect balances in respect of the following: 2012 m 2011 m Policy reserves and liabilities on non-linked business: Reserves for future policyholder bene ts and claims payable 7,663 518 Deposits on investment contracts as fide ned under IFRS grandfathered US GAAP 27,425 28,314 Guaranteed investment contracts 1,799 1,617 Unit-linked variable annuity business 49,298 37,833 86,185 68,282 In addition to the policyholder liabilities above, Jackson has entered into a programme of funding arrangements under contracts which, in substance, are almost identical to GICs.
The liabilities under these funding arrangements totalled 825 million 2011: 1,070 million and are included in Other non-insurance liabilities in the statement of fi financial position above.
v Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts includes investments in mutual funds, the majority of which are equity based.
vi Reinsurance balances relating to REALIC Included within Other non-investment and non-cash assets of 6,792 million 2011: 1,542 million were balances of 6,076 million 2011: 907 million for reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities.
Of the 6,076 million as at 31 December 2012, 5,234 million related to the reinsurance ceded by the newly acquired REALIC business.
REALIC holds collateral for certain of these reinsurance arrangements with a corresponding funds withheld liability.
As of 31 December 2012, the funds withheld liability of 2,021 million was recorded within Other non-insurance liabilities.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 217 b Reconciliation of movement in policyholder liabilities A reconciliation of the total policyholder liabilities of US insurance operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: US insurance operations Variable annuity separate Fixed annuity, account GIC and other liabilities business Total m m m At 1 January 2011 31,203 29,320 60,523 Premiums 9,176 3,738 12,914 Surrenders 1,898 2,372 4,270 Maturities Deaths 300 520 820 note b Net ows 6,978 846 7,824 Transfers from general to separate account 957 957 Investment-related items and other movements 1,735 1,871 136 note a Foreign exchange translation differences 430 276 706 At 31 December 2011 1 January 2012 37,833 31,356 69,189 Premiums 10,361 4,546 14,907 Surrenders 2,149 2,207 4,356 Maturities Deaths 404 550 954 note b Net ows 7,808 1,789 9,597 Transfers from general to separate account 1,577 1,577 note c Investment-related items and other movements 4,014 227 4,241 note a Foreign exchange translation differences 1,998 1,680 3,678 notes d, I1 Acquisition of REALIC 64 12,848 12,912 At 31 December 2012 49,298 42,963 92,261 Average policyholder liability balances 2012 43,549 33,948 77,497 2011 34,518 30,338 64,856 Averages have been based on opening and closing balances, and adjusted for acquisitions and disposals in the period.
Notes a Movements in the year have been translated at an average rate of US$1.58 1.00 2011: US$1.60 1.00.
The closing balances have been translated at closing rate of US$1.63 1.00 2011: US$1.55 1.00.
Diff erences upon retranslation are included in foreign exchange translation diff erences.
b Net fl ows for the year were 9,597 million compared with 7,824 million in 2011 driven largely by increased new business volumes.
c Positive investment-related items and other movements in variable annuity separate account liabilities of 4,014 million for 2012 refl ects the increase in the US equity market during the year with the S&P index increasing by 13.4 per cent.
Fixed annuity, GIC and other business investment and other movements primarily refl ects the interest credited to policyholder account in the year, net of falls in the technical provisions held for the guarantees issued with variable annuity business.
d The acquisition of REALIC refl ects the liabilities, before reduction for reinsurances ceded, acquired at the date of acquisition.
218 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D3: US insurance operations continued c Information on credit risks of debt securities Summary 2012 m 2011 m Corporate and government security and commercial loans: Government 4,126 2,163 Publicly traded and SEC Rule 144A securities 19,699 16,281 Non-SEC Rule 144A securities 3,542 3,198 Total 27,367 21,642 Residential mortgage-backed securities 2,400 2,591 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 2,639 2,169 Other debt securities 587 620 Total US debt securities 32,993 27,022 A 1990 SEC rule that facilitates the resale of privately placed securities that are without SEC registration to qualifi ed institutional investors.
The rule was designed to develop a more liquid and effi cient institutional resale market for unregistered securities.
i Credit quality The following table summarises by rating the debt securities, as at 31 December 2012 and 2011 using Standard & Poors S&P, Moodys, Fitch and implicit ratings of mortgage-backed securities MBS based on NAIC valuations.
2012 m 2011 m S&P AAA 187 133 S&P AA to AA- 6,343 4,476 S&P A to A- 7,728 6,382 S&P BBB to BBB- 10,230 8,446 S&P Other 1,173 999 25,661 20,436 Moodys Aaa 55 62 Moodys Aa1 to Aa3 18 15 Moodys A1 to A3 21 29 Moodys Baa1 to Baa3 56 67 Moodys Other 13 17 163 190 Implicit ratings of MBS based on NAIC valuations see below NAIC 1 2,934 2,577 NAIC 2 207 147 NAIC 3-6 321 368 3,462 3,092 Fitch 184 184 Other 3,523 3,120 Total debt securities 32,993 27,022 The Securities Valuation Offi ce of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC classifi es debt securities into six quality categories ranging from Class 1 the highest to Class 6 the lowest.
Performing securities are designated as Classes 1 to 5 and securities in or near default are designated Class 6.
The amounts within Other which are not rated by S&P, Moodys nor Fitch, nor are MBS securities using the revised regulatory ratings, have the following NAIC classifi cations: 2012 m 2011 m NAIC 1 1,453 1,258 NAIC 2 2,022 1,792 NAIC 3-6 48 70 3,523 3,120 For some mortgage-backed securities within Jackson, the table above includes these securities using the regulatory ratings detail issued by the NAIC.
These regulatory ratings levels were established by external third parties PIMCO for residential mortgage-backed securities and BlackRock Solutions for commercial mortgage-backed securities based on Jacksons carrying value.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 219 ii Determining the fair value of debt securities when the markets are not active Under IAS 39, unless categorised as held to maturity or loans and receivables debt securities are required to be fair valued.
Where available, quoted market prices are used.
However, where securities do not have an externally quoted price based on regular trades, or where markets for the securities are no longer active as a result of market conditions, IAS 39 requires that valuation techniques be applied.
IFRS 7 requires classi cation of the fair values applied by the Group into a three level hierarchy.
Note G1 sets out further details of the Groups approach to determining fair value and classi es these fair values into a three level hierarchy as required by IFRS 7.
At 31 December 2012, 0.1 per cent of Jacksons debt securities were classi ed as level 3 31 December 2011: 0.1 per cent comprising of fair values where there are signi cant inputs which are not based on observable market data.
iii Asset-backed securities funds exposures Included within the debt securities of Jackson at 31 December 2012, are exposures to asset-backed securities as follows: 2012 m 2011 m RMBS: Sub-prime 2012: 15% AAA, 6% AA 261 207 Alt-A 2012: 4% AAA, 1% AA 323 310 Prime including agency 2012: 0% AAA, 75% AA 1,816 2,074 CMBS 2012: 40% AAA, 24% AA 2,639 2,169 CDO funds 2012: 0% AAA, 27% AA, including nil exposure to sub-prime 44 44 Other ABS 2012: 24% AAA, 15% AA, including nil exposure to sub-prime 543 576 Total 5,626 5,380 Including Groups economic interest in Piedmont and other consolidated CDO funds.
Jackson fide fines its exposure to sub-prime mortgages as investments in residential mortgage-backed securities in which the underlying borrowers have a US Fair Isaac Credit Organisation FICO credit score of 680 or lower.
iv Debt securities classifi ed as available-for-sale in an unrealised loss position The following table shows the fair value of those securities that are in a gross unrealised loss position for various percentages of book value at 31 December: 2012 m 2011 m Unrealised Unrealised Fair value loss Fair value loss Between 90% and 100% 4,214 112 1,829 60 Between 80% and 90% 85 13 172 28 Below 80% 74 53 208 158 Total 4,373 178 2,209 246 The unrealised losses as at 31 December 2012 include 77 million 2011: 183 million relating to mortgage-backed and other debt securities.
The unrealised losses in the portfolio by reference to the length of time of three years or more as at 31 December 2012 are 36 million 2011: 105 million in the investment grade and 31 million 2011: 61 million in non-investment grade.
220 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D3: US insurance operations continued d Products and guarantees Jackson provides long-term savings and retirement products to retail and institutional customers throughout the US.
Jackson offers xed annuities interest-sensitive, xed indexed and immediate annuities, variable annuities VA, life insurance and institutional products.
i Fixed annuities Interest-sensitive annuities At 31 December 2012, interest-sensitive xed annuities accounted for 13 per cent 2011: 16 per cent of policy and contract liabilities of Jackson.
Interest-sensitive xed annuities are primarily deferred annuity products that are used for asset accumulation in retirement planning and for providing income in retirement.
They permit tax-deferred accumulation of funds and exible payout options.
The policyholder of an interest-sensitive xed annuity pays Jackson a premium, which is credited to the policyholders account.
Periodically, interest is credited to the policyholders account and in some cases administrative charges are deducted from the policyholders account.
Jackson makes bene t payments at a future date as speci ed in the policy based on the value of the policyholders account at that date.
The policy provides that at Jacksons discretion it may reset the interest rate, subject to a guaranteed minimum.
At 31 December 2012, Jackson had xed interest rate annuities totalling 11.7 billion US$19.0 billion 2011: 11.5 billion US$17.8 billion in account value with minimum guaranteed rates ranging from 1.0 per cent to 5.5 per cent and a 3.09 per cent average guaranteed rate 2011: 1.0 per cent to 5.5 per cent and a 3.08 per cent average guaranteed rate.
Approximately 50 per cent 2011: 48 per cent of the interest-sensitive xed annuities Jackson wrote in 2012 provide for a market value adjustment that could be positive or negative, on surrenders in the surrender period of the policy.
This formula-based adjustment approximates the change in value that assets supporting the product would realise as interest rates move up or down.
The minimum guaranteed rate is not affected by this adjustment.
Fixed indexed annuities Fixed indexed annuities FIA accounted for 8 per cent 2011: 9 per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities at 31 December 2012.
Fixed indexed annuities vary in structure, but generally are deferred annuities that enable policyholders to obtain a portion of an equity-linked return based on participation rates and caps but provide a guaranteed minimum return.
These guaranteed minimum rates are generally set between 1.0 per cent and 3.0 per cent.
Jackson had xed indexed annuities allocated to indexed funds totalling 5.6 billion US$9.2 billion 2011: 5.0 billion US$7.8 billion in account value with minimum guaranteed rates on indexed accounts ranging from 1.0 per cent to 3.0 per cent and a 1.82 per cent average guaranteed rate 2011: 1.0 per cent to 3.0 per cent and a 1.76 per cent average guarantee rate.
Jackson also offers xed interest accounts on some xed indexed annuity products.
Fixed interest accounts of xed indexed annuities totalled 1.5 billion US$2.3 billion 2011: 1.4 billion US$2.1 billion in account value with minimum guaranteed rates ranging from 1.0 per cent to 3.0 per cent and a 2.53 per cent average guaranteed rate 2011: 1.0 per cent to 3.0 per cent and a 2.50 per cent average guarantee rate.
Jackson hedges the equity return risk on xed indexed products using futures and options linked to the relevant index as well as through offsetting equity exposure in the VA product.
The cost of these hedges is taken into account in setting the index participation rates or caps.
Jackson bears the investment and surrender risk on these products.
Immediate annuities At 31 December 2012, immediate annuities accounted for 1 per cent 2011: 1 per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities.
Immediate annuities guarantee a series of payments beginning within a year of purchase and continuing over either a xed period of years and or the life of the policyholder.
If the term is for the life of the policyholder, then Jacksons primary risk is mortality risk.
The implicit interest rate on these products is based on the market conditions that exist at the time the policy is issued and is guaranteed for the term of the annuity.
ii Variable annuities At 31 December 2012, VAs accounted for 60 per cent 2011: 63 per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities.
VAs are deferred annuities that have the same tax advantages and payout options as interest-sensitive and xed indexed annuities.
The primary differences between VAs and interest-sensitive or xed indexed annuities are investment risk and return.
If a policyholder chooses a VA, the rate of return depends upon the performance of the selected fund portfolio.
Policyholders may allocate their investment to either the xed or a selection of variable accounts.
Investment risk on the variable account is borne by the policyholder, while investment risk on the xed account is borne by Jackson through guaranteed minimum xed rates of return.
At 31 December 2012, approximately 8 per cent 2011: approximately 10 per cent of VA funds were in xed accounts.
Jackson had xed interest rate accounts in variable annuities totalling 4.3 billion US$7.0 billion 2011: 4.3 billion US$6.7 billion in account value with minimum guaranteed rates ranging from 1.0 per cent to 3.0 per cent and a 1.89 per cent average guaranteed rate 2011: 1.0 per cent to 3.0 per cent and a 1.99 per cent average guarantee rate.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 221 Jackson issues VA contracts where it contractually guarantees to the contractholder either a return of no less than total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals, b total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return, or c the highest contract value on a speci ed anniversary date adjusted for any withdrawals following the contract anniversary.
These guarantees include bene ts that are payable in the event of death guaranteed minimum death bene t GMDB, annuitisation guaranteed minimum income bene t GMIB, or at speci ed dates during the accumulation period guaranteed minimum withdrawal bene t GMWB and guaranteed minimum accumulation bene t GMAB.
Jackson hedges these risks using equity options and futures contracts as described in note D3 h. The GMAB was eliminated from Jacksons product offerings in 2011.
The GMIB is no longer offered, with existing coverage being reinsured.
In March 2012, Jackson launched a new variable annuity product, Elite Access, which has no guaranteed bene ts and provides tax ef cient access to alternative investments.
Single premium sales in the period since launch were 849 million.
iii Aggregate distribution of account values The table below shows the distribution of account values for xed annuities interest sensitive and xed indexed and variable annuities within the range of minimum guaranteed interest rates as described in notes i and ii above as at 31 December 2012 and 2011: Account value Minimum guaranteed interest rate 2012 m 2011 m 1.0% 2,534 1,988 1.0% 2.0% 8,374 8,321 2.0% 3.0% 9,174 9,352 3.0% 4.0% 1,236 841 4.0% 5.0% 1,518 1,425 5.0% 209 167 Total 23,045 22,094 iv Life insurance Jacksons life insurance products accounted for 15 per cent 2011: 7 per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities at 31 December 2012.
The increase from 2011 was a result of the acquisition of REALIC.
Jackson discontinued new sales of life insurance products effective 1 August 2012.
The life products included term life, universal life and variable universal life.
Term life provides protection for a fide ned period and a bene t that is payable to a designated bene ciary upon death of the insured.
Universal life provides permanent individual life insurance for the life of the insured and includes a savings element.
Variable universal life is a type of life insurance policy that combines death bene t protection with the ability for the policyholder account to be invested in separate account funds.
At 31 December 2012, Jackson including the newly acquired REALIC had interest sensitive life business in force with total account value of 6.0 billion US$9.7 billion 2011: 3.3 billion US$5.1 billion, with minimum guaranteed interest rates ranging from 2.5 per cent to 6.0 per cent with a 4.67 per cent average guaranteed rate 2011: 3.0 per cent to 6.0 per cent with a 4.88 per cent average guaranteed rate.
The table below shows the distribution of the interest-sensitive life business account values within this range of minimum guaranteed interest rates as at 31 December 2012 and 2011: Account value Minimum guaranteed interest rate 2012 m 2011 m 1.0% 1.0% 2.0% 2.0% 3.0% 183 130 3.0% 4.0% 2,141 1,145 4.0% 5.0% 2,097 686 5.0% 1,550 1,317 Total 5,971 3,278 222 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D3: US insurance operations continued v Institutional products Jacksons institutional products consist of GICs, funding agreements including agreements issued in conjunction with Jacksons participation in the US Federal Home Loan Bank programme and medium-term note funding agreements.
At 31 December 2012, institutional products accounted for 3 per cent of policy and contract liabilities 2011: 4 per cent.
Under a traditional GIC, the policyholder makes a lump sum deposit.
The interest rate paid is xed and established when the contract is issued.
If deposited funds are withdrawn earlier than the speci ed term of the contract, an adjustment is made that approximates a market value adjustment.
Under a funding agreement, the policyholder either makes a lump sum deposit or makes speci ed periodic deposits.
Jackson agrees to pay a rate of interest, which may be xed but which is usually a oating short-term interest rate linked to an external index.
The average term of the funding arrangements is one to two years.
In 2012 and 2011, there were no funding agreements terminable by the policyholder with less than 90 days notice.
Medium-term note funding agreements are generally issued to support trust instruments issued on non-US exchanges or to quali ed investors as fide ned by SEC Rule 144A.
Through the funding agreements, Jackson agrees to pay a rate of interest, which may be xed or oating, to the holders of the trust instruments.
e Process for setting assumptions and determining contract liabilities Under the MSB of reporting applied under IFRS 4 for insurance contracts, providing the requirements of the Companies Act, UK GAAP standards and the ABI SORP are met, it is permissible to re ect the previously applied UK GAAP basis.
Accordingly, and consistent with the basis explained in note A3, in the case of Jackson the carrying values of insurance assets and liabilities are consolidated into the Group accounts based on US GAAP.
Under US GAAP, investment contracts as fide ned for US GAAP purposes are accounted for by applying, in the first instance, a retrospective deposit method to determine the liability for policyholder bene ts.
This is then augmented by potentially three additional amounts.
These amounts are for: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Any amounts that have been assessed to compensate the insurer for services to be performed over future periods ie deferred income : A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Any amounts previously assessed against policyholders that are refundable on termination of the contract: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Any probable future loss on the contract ie premium fide ciency.
Capitalised acquisition costs and deferred income for these contracts are amortised over the life of the book of contracts.
The present value of the estimated gross pro ts is generally computed using the rate of interest that accrues to policyholder balances sometimes referred to as the contract rate.
Estimated gross pro ts include estimates of the following elements, each of which will be determined based on the best estimate of amounts of the following individual elements over the life of the book of contracts without provision for adverse deviation for: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Amounts expected to be assessed for mortality less bene t claims in excess of related policyholder balances: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Amounts expected to be assessed for contract administration less costs incurred for contract administration: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Amounts expected to be earned from the investment of policyholder balances less interest credited to policyholder balances: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Amounts expected to be assessed against policyholder balances upon termination of contracts sometimes referred to as surrender charges : and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Other expected assessments and credits.
VA contracts written by Jackson may, as described above, provide for GMDB, GMIB, GMWB and GMAB features.
In general terms, liabilities for these bene ts are accounted for under US GAAP by using estimates of future bene ts and fees under best estimate persistency assumptions.
In accordance with US GAAP, the grandfathered basis for IFRS, which speci es how certain guarantee features should be accounted for, the GMDB and the for life portion of GMWB liabilities are not fair valued but are instead determined each period end by estimating the expected value of bene ts in excess of the projected account balance and recognising the excess ratably over the life of the contract based on total expected assessments.
At 31 December 2012, these liabilities were valued using a series of deterministic investment performance scenarios, a mean investment return of 8.4 per cent 2011: 8.4 per cent and assumptions for lapse, mortality and expense that are the same as those used in amortising the capitalised acquisition costs.
The direct GMIB liability is determined by estimating the expected value of the annuitisation bene ts in excess of the projected account balance at the date of annuitisation and recognising the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments.
GMIB bene ts are essentially fully reinsured, subject to annual claim limits.
As this reinsurance bene t is net settled, it is considered to be a derivative under IAS 39, and is therefore recognised at fair value with the change in fair value included as a component of short-term derivative uctuations.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 223 The assumptions used for calculating the direct GMIB liability at 31 December 2012 and 2011, are consistent with those used for calculating the GMDB and for life GMWB liabilities.
The change in these reserves, along with claim payments and associated fees included in reserves, are included along with the hedge results in short-term uctuations, resulting in removal of the market impact from the operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns.
Jackson regularly evaluates, estimates used and adjusts the additional GMDB, GMIB and GMWB for life liability balances, with a related charge or credit to bene t expense, if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised.
GMWB not for life features are considered to be embedded derivatives under IAS 39.
Therefore, provisions for these bene ts are recognised at fair value, with the change in fair value included in short-term uctuations.
For GMWB and GMIB reinsurance embedded derivatives that are fair valued under IAS 39, Jackson bases its volatility assumptions solely on implied market volatility with no reference to historical volatility levels and explicitly incorporates Jacksons own credit risk in determining discount rates.
Volatility assumptions are based on a weighting of available market data on implied volatility for durations up to ten years, at which point the projected volatility is held constant.
Non-performance risk is incorporated into the calculation through the use of discount interest rates sourced from a AA corporate credit curve.
Other risk margins, particularly for market illiquidity and policyholder behaviour, are also incorporated into the model through the use of explicitly conservative assumptions.
On a periodic basis, Jackson rationalises the resulting fair values based on comparisons to other models and market movements.
With the exception of the GMDB, GMIB, GMWB and GMAB features of VA contracts, the financial guarantee features of Jacksons contracts are in most circumstances not explicitly valued, but the impact of any interest guarantees would be re ected as they are earned in the current account value ie the US GAAP liability.
For traditional life insurance contracts, provisions for future policy bene ts are determined under US GAAP using the net level premium method and assumptions as of the issue date as to mortality, interest, policy lapses and expenses plus provisions for adverse deviation.
Institutional products are accounted for as investment contracts under IFRS with the liability classi ed as being in respect of financial instruments rather than insurance contracts, as fide ned by IFRS 4.
In practice, there is no material difference between the IFRS and US GAAP basis of recognition and measurement for these contracts.
Certain institutional products representing obligations issued in currencies other than US dollars have been hedged for changes in exchange rates using cross-currency swaps.
The fair value of derivatives embedded in funding agreements, as well as foreign currency transaction gains and losses, are included in the carrying value of the trust instruments supported by funding agreements recorded in other non-insurance liabilities.
Deferred acquisition costs Under IFRS 4, the Group applies grandfathered US GAAP for measuring the insurance assets and liabilities of Jackson.
In the case of Jackson term business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected premiums.
For annuity and interest-sensitive life business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with a combination of historical and future expected gross pro ts on the relevant contracts.
For xed and indexed annuity and interest-sensitive life business, the key assumption is the long-term spread between the earned rate on investments and the rate credited to policyholders, which is based on an annual spread analysis.
Expected gross pro ts also depend on mortality assumptions, assumed unit costs and terminations other than deaths including the related charges, all of which are based on a combination of actual experience of Jackson, industry experience and future expectations.
A detailed analysis of actual mortality, lapse and expense experience is performed using internally developed experience studies.
As with xed and indexed annuity and interest-sensitive life business, acquisition costs for Jacksons variable annuity products are amortised in line with the emergence of pro ts.
The measurement of the amortisation, in part, re ects current period fees including those for guaranteed minimum death, income, or withdrawal bene ts earned on assets covering liabilities to policyholders, and the historical and expected level of future gross pro ts which depends on the assumed level of future fees, as well as components related to mortality, lapse and expense.
Change of accounting policy As explained in note A5, the Company has adopted the US Financial Accounting Standards Board requirements in the Emerging Issues Task Force EITF Update No.
2010-26 on Accounting for Costs Associated with Acquiring or Renewing Insurance Contracts from 1 January 2012 into Prudentials Group IFRS reporting for the results of Jackson and those Asia operations whose IFRS insurance assets and liabilities are measured principally by reference to US GAAP principles.
Under the Update, insurers are required to capitalise only those incremental costs directly relating to successfully acquiring a contract from 1 January 2012.
For Group IFRS reporting, the Company has chosen to apply this new basis retrospectively for the results of these operations.
On application of the new policy for Jackson, the deferred costs balance for business in force at 31 December 2011, was retrospectively reduced from 3,880 million to 3,095 million.
224 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D3: US insurance operations continued Mean reversion technique For variable annuity products, under US GAAP as grandfathered under IFRS 4 the projected gross pro ts, against which acquisition costs are amortised, re ect an assumed long-term level of equity return which, for Jackson, is 8.4 per cent after deduction of net external fund management fees.
This is applied to the period end level of separate account assets after application of a mean reversion technique that removes a portion of the effect of levels of short-term variability in current market returns.
Under the mean reversion technique applied by Jackson, the projected level of return for each of the next five years is adjusted from period to period, so that in combination with the actual rates of return for the preceding two years and the current year, the 8.4 per cent annual return is realised on average over the entire eight year period.
Projected returns after the mean reversion period revert back to the 8.4 per cent assumption.
However, to ensure that the methodology does not over anticipate a reversion to trend following adverse markets, the mean reversion technique has a cap and oor feature whereby the projected returns in each of the next five years can be no more than 15 per cent per annum and no less than 0 per cent per annum both gross of asset management fees in each year.
The capping feature was relevant in late 2008, 2009 and 2010 due to the very sharp market falls in 2008.
Notwithstanding this capping feature, the mean reversion technique gave rise to a bene t in 2008 of 110 million.
This bene t was effectively paid back under the mean reversion technique through charges for accelerated amortisation in 2011, as discussed below.
At 31 December 2012, the projected rate of return for the next five years is materially the same as the long-term assumption of 8.4 per cent, and so the mean reversion technique had little effect at that date.
Sensitivity of amortisation charge The amortisation charge to the income statement is re ected in operating pro t and short-term uctuations in investment returns.
The amortisation charge to the operating pro t in a reporting period comprises: i A core amount that re ects a relatively stable proportion of underlying pro t: and ii An element of acceleration or deceleration arising from market movements differing from expectations.
In periods where the cap and oor feature of the mean reversion technique are not relevant, the technique operates to dampen the second element above.
Nevertheless, extreme market movements can cause material acceleration or deceleration of amortisation in spite of this dampening effect.
Furthermore, in those periods where the cap or oor is relevant, the mean reversion technique provides no further dampening and additional volatility may result.
2011 In 2011, the DAC amortisation charge to operating pro t included 190 million of accelerated amortisation.
This amount re ected the combined effect of: a The separate account performance in the year of negative 4 per cent, net of all fees as it compared with the assumed level for the year: and b The reduction in the previously assumed future rates of return for the upcoming five years from 15 per cent, to a level nearer the middle of the corridor of 0 per cent and 15 per cent, so that, in combination with the historical returns, the eight-year average in the mean reversion calculation was the 8.4 per cent assumption.
The reduction in assumed future rates re ected, in large part, the elimination from the calculation in 2011 of the 2008 negative returns.
Setting aside other complications and the growth in the book, the 2011 accelerated amortisation can be broadly equated as paying back the bene t experienced in 2008.
2012 In 2012, the DAC amortisation charge to operating pro t of 356 million was determined after taking credit for decelerated amortisation of 56 million.
This amount primarily re ects the separate account performance of 11 per cent, net of all fees, over the assumed level for the year.
2013 The application of the mean reversion formula has the effect of dampening the impact of equity market movements on DAC amortisation while the mean reversion assumption lies within the corridor.
It would take a very signi cant movement in equity markets in 2013 outside the range of negative 20 per cent to positive 50 per cent for the mean reversion assumption to move outside the corridor.
Statement of changes in equity shadow DAC adjustments Consequent upon the positive unrealised valuation movement in 2012 of 862 million 2011: positive 811 million, there is a debit of 270 million 2011: 275 million debit for altered shadow DAC amortisation booked within other comprehensive income.
These adjustments re ect movement from period to period, in the changes to the pattern of reported gross pro ts that would have happened if the assets re ected in the statement of financial position had been sold, crystallising the unrealised gains or losses, and the proceeds reinvested at the yields currently available in the market.
At 31 December 2012, the cumulative shadow DAC balance was negative 952 million 2011: negative 720 million.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 225 f Reinsurance The reinsurance asset for business ceded outside the Group was 6,076 million 2011: 907 million.
The increase from 2011 is due to the acquisition of REALIC as described in note I1, whereby certain former REALIC business was retained by Swiss Re through 100 per cent reinsurance agreements.
Apart from the reinsurance acquired through the purchase of REALIC, the principal reinsurance ceded by Jackson outside the Group is on term life insurance, direct and assumed accident and health business and GMIB variable annuity guarantees.
In 2012, the premiums for such ceded business amounted to 193 million 2011: 72 million.
Net commissions received on ceded business and claims incurred ceded to external reinsurers totalled 24 million and 123 million respectively during 2012 2011: 9 million and 84 million respectively.
There were no deferred gains or losses on reinsurance contracts in either 2012 or 2011. g Eff ect of changes in assumptions used to measure insurance assets and liabilities In 2012 and 2011, there were no changes of assumptions that had a material impact on the results of US insurance operations.
h Exposure and sensitivity of IFRS basis profi t and shareholders equity to market and other risks Jacksons main exposures are to market risk through its exposure to interest rate risk and equity risk.
Approximately 94 per cent 2011: 92 per cent of its general account investments support interest-sensitive and xed indexed annuities, life business and surplus and 6 per cent 2011: 8 per cent support institutional business.
All of these types of business contain considerable interest rate guarantee features and, consequently, require that the assets that support them are primarily xed income or xed maturity.
Jackson is exposed primarily to the following risks in the US arising from uctuations in interest rates: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The risk of loss related to meeting guaranteed rates of accumulation following a sharp and sustained fall in interest rates: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The risk of loss related to policyholder withdrawals following a sharp and sustained increase in interest rates: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The risk of mismatch between the expected duration of certain annuity liabilities and prepayment risk and extension risk inherent in mortgage-backed securities.
Jackson is also exposed to the following risks in the US arising from equity market movements: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The risk of loss related to the incidence of bene ts related to guarantees issued in connection with its VA contracts: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The risk of loss related to meeting contractual accumulation requirements in FIA contracts.
Jackson enters into financial derivative transactions, including those noted below, to reduce and manage business risks.
These transactions manage the risk of a change in the value, yield, price, cash ows or quantity of, or a degree of exposure with respect to assets, liabilities or future cash ows, which Jackson has acquired or incurred.
Jackson uses free-standing derivative instruments for hedging purposes.
Additionally, certain liabilities, primarily trust instruments supported by funding agreements, xed indexed annuities, certain GMWB variable annuity features and reinsured GMIB variable annuity features, contain embedded derivatives as fide ned by IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Jackson does not account for such derivatives as either fair value or cash ow hedges as might be permitted if the speci c hedge documentation requirements of IAS 39 were followed.
Financial derivatives, including derivatives embedded in certain host liabilities that have been separated for accounting and financial reporting purposes, are carried at fair value.
Value movements on the derivatives are reported within the income statement.
In preparing Jacksons segment pro t as shown in note B1, value movements on Jacksons derivative contracts, are included within short-term uctuations in investment returns and excluded from operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
The types of derivatives used by Jackson and their purpose are as follows: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Interest rate swaps generally involve the exchange of xed and oating payments over the period for which Jackson holds the instrument without an exchange of the underlying principal amount.
These agreements are used for hedging purposes: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Put-swaption contracts provide the purchaser with the right, but not the obligation, to require the writer to pay the present value of a long-duration interest rate swap at future exercise dates.
Jackson purchases and writes put-swaptions with maturities up to 10 years.
Put-swaptions hedge against signi cant movements in interest rates: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Equity index futures contracts and equity index options including various call, put options and put spreads are used to hedge Jacksons obligations associated with its issuance of xed indexed immediate and deferred annuities and certain VA guarantees.
These annuities and guarantees contain embedded options which are fair valued for financial reporting purposes: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Total return swaps in which Jackson receives equity returns or returns based on reference pools of assets in exchange for short-term oating rate payments based on notional amounts, are held for both hedging and investment purposes: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Cross-currency swaps, which embody spot and forward currency swaps and additionally, in some cases, interest rate swaps and equity index swaps, are entered into for the purpose of hedging Jacksons foreign currency denominated funding agreements supporting trust instrument obligations: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Credit default swaps represent agreements under which Jackson has purchased default protection on certain underlying corporate bonds held in its portfolio.
These contracts allow Jackson to sell the protected bonds at par value to the counterparty if a default event occurs in exchange for periodic payments made by Jackson for the life of the agreement.
Jackson does not write default protection using credit derivatives.
The estimated sensitivity of Jacksons pro t and shareholders equity to equity and interest rate risks provided below is net of the related changes in amortisation of DAC.
The effect on the related changes in amortisation of DAC provided is based on the current grandfathered US GAAP DAC basis but does not include any effect from an acceleration or deceleration of amortisation of DAC.
Note A5 provides explanation of the new US GAAP DAC basis adopted by the Company from 1 January 2012.
Note D3 e above provides an explanation of the dynamics that affect the amortisation charge.
226 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D3: US insurance operations continued i Sensitivity to equity risk Variable annuity contract related At 31 December 2012 and 2011, Jackson had variable annuity contracts with guarantees, for which the net amount at risk NAR is generally the amount of guaranteed bene t in excess of current account value, as follows: Period Net Weighted until Minimum Account amount average expected return value at risk attained age annuitisation 31 December 2012 m m Return of net deposits plus a minimum return GMDB 0-6% 40,964 1,839 64.4 years GMWB Premium only 0% 2,213 91 GMWB 0-5% 3,359 88 GMAB Premium only 0% 53 Highest speci ed anniversary account value minus withdrawals post-anniversary GMDB 4,554 324 64.0 years GMWB Highest anniversary only 1,880 245 GMWB 697 137 Combination net deposits plus minimum return, highest speci ed anniversary account value minus withdrawals post-anniversary GMDB 0-6% 2,705 348 66.4 years GMIB 0-6% 1,588 469 3.3 years GMWB 0-8% 31,167 1,918 Period Net Weighted until Minimum Account amount average expected return value at risk attained age annuitisation 31 December 2011 m m Return of net deposits plus a minimum return GMDB 0-6% 31,571 2,914 64.2 years GMWB Premium only 0% 2,325 195 GMWB 0-5% 2,582 582 GMAB Premium only 0% 54 2 Highest speci ed anniversary account value minus withdrawals post-anniversary GMDB 4,002 678 63.7 years GMWB Highest anniversary only 1,855 423 GMWB 735 217 Combination net deposits plus minimum return, highest speci ed anniversary account value minus withdrawals post-anniversary GMDB 0-6% 2,098 479 66.1 years GMIB 0-6% 1,661 575 4.2 years GMWB 0-8% 21,902 2,263 Amounts shown for GMWB comprise sums for the not for life portion where the guaranteed withdrawal base less the account value equals to the net amount at risk NAR, and a for life portion where the NAR has been estimated as the present value of future expected benefi t payment remaining aft er the amount of the not for life guaranteed benefi ts is zero.
Ranges shown based on simple interest.
The upper limits of 5 per cent, or 8 per cent simple interest are approximately equal to 4.1 per cent and 6 per cent respectively, on a compound interest basis over a typical ten year bonus period.
For example 1 10 x 0.05 is similar to 1.041 growing at a compound rate of 4.01 per cent for a further nine years.
The GMIB reinsurance guarantees are fully reinsured.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 227 Account balances of contracts with guarantees were invested in variable separate accounts as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Mutual fund type: Equity 38,092 28,902 Bond 5,673 4,251 Balanced 4,601 3,846 Money market 766 677 Total 49,132 37,676 As noted above, Jackson is exposed to equity risk through the options embedded in the xed indexed liabilities and GMDB and GMWB guarantees included in certain VA bene ts.
This risk is managed using an equity hedging programme to minimise the risk of a signi cant economic impact as a result of increases or decreases in equity market levels while taking advantage of naturally offsetting exposures in Jacksons operations.
Jackson purchases external futures and options that hedge the risks inherent in these products, while also considering the impact of rising and falling separate account fees.
As a result of this hedging programme, if the equity markets were to increase further in the future, the net effect on Jacksons free-standing derivatives would decrease in value.
However, over time, this movement would be broadly offset by increased separate account fees and reserve decreases, net of the related changes to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
Due to the nature of the free-standing and embedded derivatives, this hedge, while highly effective on an economic basis, may not completely mute in the financial reporting the immediate impact of equity market movements as the free-standing derivatives reset immediately, while the hedged liabilities reset more slowly and fees are recognised prospectively.
The opposite impact would be observed if the equity markets were to decrease.
At 31 December 2012, the estimated sensitivity of Jacksons pro t for VA business, and shareholders equity to immediate increases and decreases in equity markets is shown below.
The sensitivities are shown net of related changes in DAC amortisation.
2012 m 2011 m Decrease Decrease Increase Increase Decrease Decrease Increase Increase of 20% of 10% of 10% of 20% of 20% of 10% of 10% of 20% Pre-tax pro t, net of related changes in amortisation of DAC excluding impact on future separate account fees 326 120 86 215 373 196 242 539 Related deferred tax effects 114 42 30 75 130 69 85 189 Net sensitivity of pro t after tax and shareholders equity 212 78 56 140 243 127 157 350 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
The above table provides sensitivity movements as at a point in time, while the actual impact on financial results would vary contingent upon the volume of new product sales and lapses, changes to the derivative portfolio, correlation of market returns and various other factors including volatility, interest rates and elapsed time.
The directional movements in the sensitivities re ect the hedging programme in place at 31 December 2012.
Other sensitivity to equity risk In addition to the exposure explained above, Jackson is also exposed to equity risk from its holding of equity securities, partnerships in investment pools and other financial derivatives.
A range of reasonably possible movements in the value of equity securities, partnerships in investment pools and other financial derivatives have been applied to Jacksons holdings at 31 December 2012 and 2011.
The table below shows the sensitivity to a 10 per cent and 20 per cent fall in value, and the impact that this would have on pre-tax pro t, net of related changes in amortisation of DAC, pro t after tax and shareholders equity.
2012 m 2011 m Decrease Decrease Decrease Decrease of 20% of 10% of 20% of 10% Pre-tax pro t, net of related changes in amortisation of DAC 143 72 129 64 Related deferred tax effects 50 25 45 23 Net sensitivity of pro t after tax and shareholders equity 93 47 84 41 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
228 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D3: US insurance operations continued A 10 or 20 per cent increase in their value is estimated to have an approximately equal and opposite effect on pro t and shareholders equity to the sensitivities shown above.
If equity markets were to fall by more than 20 per cent, the Group believes that this would not be an instantaneous fall, but rather this would be expected to occur over a period of time during which the Group would be able to put in place mitigating management actions.
ii Sensitivity to interest rate risk Notwithstanding the market risk exposure previously described, except in the circumstances of interest rate scenarios where the guarantee rates included in contract terms are higher than crediting rates that can be supported from assets held to cover liabilities, the accounting measurement of xed annuity liabilities of Jackson products is not generally sensitive to interest rate risk.
The GMWB features attaching to variable annuity business other than for-life are accounted for as embedded derivatives which are fair valued and so will be sensitive to changes in interest rate.
Debt securities and related derivatives are marked to fair value.
Value movements on derivatives, again net of related changes to amortisation of DAC and deferred tax, are recorded within pro t and loss.
Fair value movements on debt securities, net of related changes to amortisation of DAC and deferred tax, are recorded within other comprehensive income.
The estimated sensitivity of these items and policyholder liabilities to a 1 per cent and 2 per cent decrease subject to a oor of zero and increase in interest rates at 31 December 2012 and 2011 is as follows: 2012 m 2011 m A 2% A 1% A 1% A 2% A 2% A 1% A 1% A 2% decrease decrease increase increase decrease decrease increase increase Pro t and loss Direct effect Derivatives value change 1,525 778 625 1,142 1,549 736 592 1,078 Policyholder liabilities 2,021 871 610 970 925 446 395 753 Related effect on amortisation of DAC 309 93 39 14 132 61 33 46 Pre-tax pro t effect 187 54 186 492 229 164 279 Related effect on charge for deferred tax 65 19 65 172 80 57 98 Net pro t effect 122 35 121 320 149 107 181 Other comprehensive income Direct effect on carrying value of debt securities 3,873 2,175 2,175 3,873 2,679 1,513 1,513 2,679 Related effect on amortisation of DAC 1,332 748 748 1,332 954 539 539 954 Related effect on movement in deferred tax 889 499 499 889 604 341 341 604 Net effect 1,652 928 928 1,652 1,121 633 633 1,121 Total net effect on shareholders equity 1,530 928 963 1,773 1,441 782 740 1,302 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
These sensitivities are shown only for interest rates in isolation and do not include other movements in credit risk that may affect credit spreads and valuations of debt securities.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 229 iii Currency translation risk Consistent with the Groups accounting policies, the pro ts of the Groups US operations are translated at average exchange rates and shareholders equity at the closing rate for the reporting period.
A 10 per cent increase or decrease in these rates would reduce or increase pro t before tax attributable to shareholders, pro t for the year and shareholders equity attributable to US insurance operations respectively as follows: A 10% increase in US$: A 10% decrease in US$: exchange rates exchange rates 2012 m 2011 m 2012 m 2011 m note Pro t before tax attributable to shareholders 78 44 95 53 Pro t for the year 56 32 69 39 Shareholders equity attributable to US insurance operations 395 342 483 418 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
Note Sensitivity on profi t before tax ie aggregate of the operating profi t based on longer-term investment returns and short-term fl uctuations in investment returns.
In addition, the total pro t for Jackson is affected by the level of impairment losses on the debt securities portfolio, net effect of market risk arising from the incidence and valuation of guarantee features, guaranteed bene t payments and equity index participation features, offset by variability of bene t related fees and equity derivative hedging performance, short-term value movements on derivatives held to manage the xed annuity and other general account business, and other temporary value movements on portfolio investments classi ed as fair value through pro t and loss.
iv Other sensitivities As noted in section D1, total pro t is very sensitive to market risk on the assets covering liabilities other than variable annuity business segregated in the separate accounts.
As with other shareholder-backed business the pro t or loss for Jackson is presented by distinguishing the result for the year between an operating result based on longer-term investment returns and short-term uctuations in investment returns.
In this way, the most signi cant direct effect of market changes that have taken place to the Jackson result are separately identi ed.
The principal determinants of variations in operating pro t based on longer-term returns are: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Growth in the size of assets under management covering the liabilities for the contracts in force: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Variations in fees and other income, offset by variations in market value adjustment payments and, where necessary, strengthening of liabilities: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Spread returns for the difference between investment returns and rates credited to policyholders: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
For term business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected premiums.
For annuity and interest sensitive life business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected gross pro ts on the relevant contracts.
For interest-sensitive business, the key assumption is the expected long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders, which is based on an annual spread analysis.
In addition, expected gross pro ts depend on mortality assumptions, assumed unit costs and terminations other than deaths including the related charges, all of which are based on a combination of actual experience of Jackson, industry experience and future expectations.
A detailed analysis of actual experience is measured by internally developed expense, mortality and persistency studies.
Except to the extent of mortality experience, which primarily affects pro ts through variations in claim payments and GMDB reserves, the pro ts of Jackson are relatively insensitive to changes in insurance risk.
Jackson is sensitive to lapse risk.
However, Jackson uses swaption derivatives to ameliorate the effect of a sharp rise in interest rates, which would be the most likely cause of a sudden change in policyholder behaviour.
For variable annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term level of separate account returns, which for 2012 and 2011 was 8.4 per cent.
The impact of using this return is re ected in two principal ways, namely: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Through the projected expected gross pro ts which are used to determine the amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
This is applied through the use of a mean reversion technique which is described in more detail in note D3 e above: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The required level of provision for guaranteed minimum death bene t claims.
230 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D3: US insurance operations continued i Duration of liabilities The table below shows the carrying value of policyholder liabilities.
The table below also shows the maturity pro le of the cash ows for 2012 and 2011: 2012 m 2011 m Fixed Fixed annuity and annuity and other business other business including including GICs and GICs and similar Variable similar Variable contracts annuity Total contracts annuity Total Policyholder liabilities 42,963 49,298 92,261 31,356 37,833 69,189 2012 % 2011 % Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 45 46 46 47 47 47 5 to 10 years 27 31 29 27 30 29 10 to 15 years 12 13 13 11 13 12 15 to 20 years 7 6 6 6 6 6 20 to 25 years 5 2 3 5 2 3 Over 25 years 4 2 3 4 2 3 The maturity tables shown above have been prepared on a discounted basis.
Details of undiscounted cash ows for investment contracts are shown in note G2.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 231 D4: Asia insurance operations a Summary statement of fi financial position 2012 m 2011 m Unit-linked With-profi ts assets and Other business liabilities business Total Total 31 December note i Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Goodwill 239 239 235 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 908 908 977 Total 1,147 1,147 1,212 Intangible assets attributable to with-pro ts funds: Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 72 72 83 Deferred tax assets 83 83 115 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 324 123 670 1,117 1,024 Investments of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 4 4 10 Financial investments: note iii Loans 600 414 1,014 1,233 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 3,160 10,491 659 14,310 11,997 Debt securities 11,495 3,194 6,713 21,402 17,681 Other investments 504 47 406 957 470 Deposits 165 574 488 1,227 1,165 Total investments 15,924 14,306 8,684 38,914 32,556 Cash and cash equivalents 524 421 723 1,668 1,977 Total assets 16,844 14,850 11,307 43,001 36,967 Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 2,529 2,529 2,306 Non-controlling interests 4 4 5 Total equity 2,533 2,533 2,311 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds: Contract liabilities including amounts in respect of contracts classi ed as investment contracts under IFRS 4 13,388 14,028 7,185 34,601 30,862 note ii Unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds 63 63 50 Total 13,451 14,028 7,185 34,664 30,912 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholdernanced operations 7 7 141 Deferred tax liabilities 384 46 158 588 506 Other non-insurance liabilities 3,009 776 1,424 5,209 3,097 Total liabilities 16,844 14,850 8,774 40,468 34,656 Total equity and liabilities 16,844 14,850 11,307 43,001 36,967 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
Notes i The statement of fi financial position for with-profi ts business comprises the with-profi ts assets and liabilities of the Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore with-profi ts operations.
Assets and liabilities of other participating business are included in the column for Other business.
ii For the purposes of the presentation of unallocated surplus of with-profi ts within the statement of fi financial position, the Hong Kong branch balance is reported within the unallocated surplus of the PAC with-profi ts sub-fund of the UK insurance operations.
232 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D4: Asia insurance operations continued iii Asia insurance operations The loans of the Groups Asia insurance operations comprise: 2012 m 2011 m Mortgage loans 43 31 Policy loans 610 572 Other loans 361 630 Total Asia insurance operations loans 1,014 1,233 The mortgage and policy loans are secured by properties and life insurance policies respectively.
The majority of the other loans are commercial loans held by the Malaysia operation and which are all investment graded by two local rating agencies.
Summary policyholder liabilities net of reinsurance and unallocated surplus At 31 December 2012, the policyholder liabilities net of reinsurance of 175 million 2011: 151 million and unallocated surplus for Asia operations of 34.5 billion 2011: 30.8 billion comprised the following: 2012 m 2011 m Singapore 10,731 9,323 Hong Kong 8,610 8,279 Malaysia 3,336 2,829 Indonesia 2,110 1,809 Korea 2,131 1,852 Taiwan 1,931 1,429 Other countries 5,640 5,240 Total Asia operations 34,489 30,761 D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 233 b Reconciliation of movement in policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profi ts funds A reconciliation of the total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds of Asia insurance operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: With-profi ts Unit-linked Other business liabilities business Total m m m m At 1 January 2011 11,024 12,724 4,992 28,740 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 10,958 12,724 4,992 28,674 Unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds 66 66 Premiums: New business 162 1,136 723 2,021 In-force 1,110 1,163 785 3,058 1,272 2,299 1,508 5,079 note c Surrenders 502 1,490 245 2,237 Maturities Deaths 431 39 194 664 note b Net ows 339 770 1,069 2,178 Shareholders transfers post tax 30 30 Investment-related items and other movements 1,274 1,154 245 365 note a Foreign exchange translation differences 36 325 52 341 At 31 December 2011 1 January 2012 12,643 12,015 6,254 30,912 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 12,593 12,015 6,254 30,862 Unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds 50 50 Premiums: New business 216 1,336 636 2,188 In-force 1,263 1,292 877 3,432 1,479 2,628 1,513 5,620 note c Surrenders 608 1,675 258 2,541 Maturities Deaths 432 30 196 658 note b Net ows 439 923 1,059 2,421 Shareholders transfers post tax 31 31 note d Investment-related items and other movements 639 1,451 88 2,178 note a Foreign exchange translation differences 239 361 216 816 At 31 December 2012 13,451 14,028 7,185 34,664 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 13,388 14,028 7,185 34,601 Unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds 63 63 Average policyholder liability balances 2012 12,990 13,022 6,720 32,732 2011 11,775 12,370 5,623 29,768 Averages have been based on opening and closing balances and exclude unallocated surplus of with-profi ts funds.
Notes a Movements in the year have been translated at the average exchange rates for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The closing balance has been translated at the closing spot rates as at 31 December 2012.
b Net fl ows have increased by 243 million to 2,421 million in 2012, compared with 2,178 million in 2011, refl ecting increased fl ows from new business and growth in the in-force books.
c In 2012 the rate of surrenders for shareholder-backed business expressed as a percentage of opening liabilities was 10.6 per cent 2011: 9.8 per cent.
Excluding India where the market has been going through a signifi cant period of change following regulatory changes in 2010, the surrender rate in 2012 was at 9.7 per cent 2011: 9.6 per cent.
For with-profi ts business, surrenders have increased from 502 million in 2011 to 608 million in 2012, primarily as a result of certain products in Hong Kong reaching their fi five year anniversary, the point at which some product features trigger.
d Positive investment-related items and other movements of 2,178 million in 2012 primarily refl ects improvements in the Asia equity market.
234 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D4: Asia insurance operations continued c Information on credit risks of debt securities The following table summarises the credit quality of the debt securities of the Asia insurance operations as at 31 December 2012 by rating agency ratings: 2012 m 2011 m With-profi ts Unit-linked Other business assets business Total Total S&P AAA 675 19 91 785 1,423 S&P AA to AA- 2,960 466 2,097 5,523 3,843 S&P A to A- 2,059 279 944 3,282 3,055 S&P BBB to BBB- 1,377 112 417 1,906 1,451 S&P Other 1,443 815 874 3,132 2,137 8,514 1,691 4,423 14,628 11,909 Moodys Aaa 700 215 474 1,389 1,489 Moodys Aa1 to Aa3 139 34 98 271 128 Moodys A1 to A3 93 14 62 169 304 Moodys Baa1 to Baa3 196 122 57 375 131 Moodys Other 98 12 2 112 59 1,226 397 693 2,316 2,111 Fitch 322 93 118 533 351 Other 1,433 1,013 1,479 3,925 3,310 Total Asia debt securities 11,495 3,194 6,713 21,402 17,681 The following table analyses debt securities of Other business which are not externally rated: 2012 m 2011 m Government bonds 287 244 Corporate bonds rated as investment grade by local external ratings agencies 1,069 776 Other 123 45 1,479 1,065 d Products and guarantees The life insurance products offered by the Groups Asia operations include a range of with-pro ts and non-participating term, whole life, endowment and unit-linked policies.
The Asia operations also offer health, disability, critical illness and accident coverage to supplement its core life products.
The terms and conditions of the contracts written by the Asia operations and, in particular, the products options and guarantees, vary from territory to territory depending upon local market circumstances.
In general terms, the Asia participating products provide savings and protection where the basic sum assured can be enhanced by a pro t share or bonus from the underlying fund, as determined at the discretion of the insurers.
The Asia operations non-participating term, whole life and endowment products offer savings and or protection where the bene ts are guaranteed or determined by a set of fide ned market-related parameters.
Unit-linked products combine savings with protection, the cash value of the policy depends on the value of the underlying unitised funds.
Health and Protection H&P policies provide mortality or morbidity bene ts and include health, disability, critical illness and accident coverage.
H&P products are commonly offered as supplements to main life policies but can be sold separately.
Subject to local market circumstances and regulatory requirements, the guarantee features described in note D2 d in respect of UK business broadly apply to similar types of participating contracts written in the Hong Kong branch, Singapore and Malaysia.
Participating products have both guaranteed and non-guaranteed elements.
Non-participating long-term products are the only ones where the Group is contractually obliged to provide guarantees on all bene ts.
Unit-linked products have the lowest level of guarantee.
Product guarantees in Asia can be broadly classi ed into four main categories, namely premium rate, cash value and interest rate guarantees, policy renewability and convertibility options.
The risks on death coverage through premium rate guarantees are low due to appropriate product pricing.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 235 Cash value and interest rate guarantees are of three types: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Maturity values Maturity values are guaranteed for non-participating products and on the guaranteed portion of participating products.
Declared annual bonuses are also guaranteed once vested.
Future bonus rates and cash dividends are not guaranteed on participating products: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Surrender values Surrender values are guaranteed for non-participating products and on the guaranteed portion of participating products.
The surrender value of declared reversionary bonuses are also guaranteed once vested.
Market value adjustments and surrender penalties are used where the law permits such adjustments in cash values: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Interest rate guarantees It is common in Asia for regulations or market-driven demand and competition to provide some form of capital value protection and minimum crediting interest rate guarantees.
This would be re ected within the guaranteed maturity and surrender values.
The guarantees are borne by shareholders for non-participating and investment-linked non-investment guarantees only products.
Participating product guarantees are predominantly supported by the segregated life funds and their estates.
Whole of life contracts with oor levels of policyholder bene ts that accrue at rates set at inception, and do not vary subsequently with market conditions, are written in the Korean life operations, though this is not of a signi cant extent as Korea has a much higher proportion of linked and health business.
The Korean business has non-linked liabilities and linked liabilities at 31 December 2012 of 505 million and 1,628 million respectively 2011: 447 million and 1,407 million respectively.
The other area of note in respect of guarantees is the Japanese business, where pricing rates are higher than current bond yields.
Lapse risk is a feature in that policyholders could potentially surrender their policies on guaranteed terms if interest rates signi cantly increased leaving the potential for losses if bond values had depreciated signi cantly.
However, the business is matched to a relatively short realistic liability duration.
The method for determining liabilities of insurance contracts for UK GAAP, and IFRS, purposes for some Asia operations is based on US GAAP principles and this method applies to contracts with cash value and interest rate guarantees.
Following standard US GAAP procedure, premium fide ciency reserve calculations are performed each year to establish whether the carrying values of the liabilities are suf cient.
On the US GAAP basis the calculations are deterministic, that is to say based on a single set of projections, and expected long-term rates of return are applied.
e Process for setting assumptions and determining liabilities The future policyholder bene t provisions for Asia businesses in the Groups IFRS accounts and previously under the MSB, are determined in accordance with methods prescribed by local GAAP adjusted to comply, where necessary, with UK GAAP.
For some countries in Asia where local GAAP is not well established, and in which the business written is primarily non-participating and linked business, US GAAP is used as the most appropriate reporting basis.
This basis is applied in India, Japan, Taiwan and until 2012, Vietnam.
Under this basis, the future policyholder bene t provisions for non-linked business are determined using the net level premium method, with an allowance for surrenders, maintenance and claims expenses.
In Vietnam, the Company improved its estimation basis for liabilities in 2012 from one determined substantially by reference to US GAAP requirements.
After making this change, the estimation basis for Vietnam is aligned substantially with that used in Singapore, Malaysia and some other Asia operations.
f Reinsurance The Asia businesses cede only minor amounts of business outside the Group with immaterial effects on reported pro t. During 2012, reinsurance premiums for externally ceded business were 178 million 2011: 226 million and the reinsurance assets were 175 million 2011: 151 million in aggregate.
g Eff ect of changes in bases, estimates and assumptions used to measure insurance assets and liabilities In 2012, the IFRS operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns for Asia insurance operations included a net 48 million credit 2011: 38 million representing a small number of non-recurring items that are not anticipated to re-occur in subsequent periods.
Separately, the IFRS policyholder liabilities of the shareholder-backed non-linked business of the Groups Hong Kong operation are measured on a prospective net premium valuation approach with zero allowance for lapses.
In 2012, the basis of determining the valuation rate of interest has been altered to align with a permitted practice of the Hong Kong authorities for regulatory reporting.
The main change is to apply a valuation rate of interest that incorporates a reinvestment yield that is weighted by reference to current and the historical three year average, rather than the year end rate.
The change reduced the carrying value of policyholder liabilities at 31 December 2012 by 95 million.
This bene t is included within the short-term uctuations in investment returns in the Groups supplementary analysis of pro t. 236 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D4: Asia insurance operations continued h Exposure and sensitivity of IFRS basis profi t and shareholders equity to market and other risks The Asia operations sell with-pro ts and unit-linked policies and, although the with-pro ts business generally has a lower terminal bonus element than in the UK, the investment portfolio still contains a proportion of equities.
Non-participating business is largely backed by debt securities or deposits.
The exposure to market risk of the Group arising from its Asia operations is therefore at modest levels.
This arises from the fact that the Asia operations have a balanced portfolio of with-pro ts, unit-linked and other types of business.
In Asia, adverse persistency experience can impact the IFRS pro tability of certain business written in the region.
This risk is managed at a business unit level through regular monitoring of experience and the implementation of management actions as necessary.
These actions could include product enhancements, increased management focus on premium collection, as well as other customer retention efforts.
The potential financial impact of lapses is often mitigated through the speci c features of the products, eg surrender charges.
i Sensitivity of profi t and shareholders equity to risks other than currency translation risk With-profi ts business Similar principles to those explained for UK with-pro ts business apply to pro t emergence for the Asia with-pro ts business.
Correspondingly, the pro t emergence re ects bonus declaration and is relatively insensitive to period by period uctuations in insurance risk or interest rate movements.
Unit-linked business As for the UK insurance operations, for unit-linked business, the main factor affecting the pro t and shareholders equity of the Asia operations is investment performance through asset management fees.
The sensitivity of pro ts and shareholders equity to changes in insurance risk, interest rate risk and credit risk are not material.
Other business Interest rate risk Asia operations offer a range of insurance and investment products, predominantly with-pro ts and non-participating term, whole life endowment and unit-linked.
Excluding with-pro t and unit-linked business, the results of the Asia business are sensitive to the vagaries of routine movements in interest rates.
For the purposes of analysing sensitivity to variations in interest rates, reference has been made to the movements in the 10-year government bond rates of the territories.
At 31 December 2012, 10-year government bond rates vary from territory to territory and range from 0.60 per cent to 9.50 per cent 2011: 0.99 per cent to 12.88 per cent.
For the sensitivity analysis as at 31 December 2011, as shown in the table below, for the majority of the territories, a movement of 1 per cent in the 10-year government bond rate has been used.
Exceptions to this approach are for Japan and Taiwan, where a movement of 0.5 per cent has been used.
Following falls in interest rates in many of the territories during 2012, the approach was altered such that the reasonably possible interest rate movement used is 1 per cent for all territories but subject to a oor of zero where the bond rates are currently below 1 per cent.
This revised approach was applied in estimating the sensitivity at 31 December 2012.
The estimated sensitivity to the decrease and increase in interest rates at 31 December 2012 and 2011 is as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Decrease Increase Decrease Increase of 1% of 1% of 1% of 1% Pre-tax pro t 216 269 73 159 Related deferred tax where applicable 56 53 22 34 Net effect on pro t and shareholders equity 160 216 51 125 Except for Japan and Taiwan using 0.5 per cent sensitivity.
The pre-tax impacts, if they arose, would mostly be recorded within the category short-term uctuations in investments returns in the Groups segmental analysis of pro t before tax.
The degree of sensitivity of the results of the non-linked shareholder-backed business of the Asia operations to movements in interest rates depends upon the degree to which the liabilities under the grandfathered IFRS 4 measurement basis re ects market interest rates from period to period.
For example, for those countries, such as those applying US GAAP, the results can be more sensitive as the effect of interest rate movements on the backing investments may not be offset by liability movements.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 237 Equity price risk The non-linked shareholder business has limited exposure to equity and property investment 663 million at 31 December 2012.
Generally, changes in equity and property investment values are not directly offset by movements in policyholder liabilities.
The estimated sensitivity to a 10 per cent and 20 per cent change in equity and property prices for shareholder-backed Asia other business, which would be re ected in the short-term uctuation component of the Groups segmental analysis of pro t before tax, at 31 December 2012 and 2011 would be as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Decrease Decrease Decrease Decrease of 20% of 10% of 20% of 10% Pre-tax pro t 134 67 120 60 Related deferred tax where applicable 31 15 24 12 Net effect on pro t and shareholders equity 103 52 96 48 A 10 per cent or 20 per cent increase in their value would have an approximately equal and opposite effect on pro t and shareholders equity to the sensitivities shown above.
If equity markets were to fall by more than 20 per cent, the Group believes that this would not be an instantaneous fall but rather this would be expected to occur over a period of time during which the Group would be able to put in place mitigating management actions.
Insurance risk Many of the territories in Asia are exposed to mortality morbidity risk and provision is made within policyholder liabilities on a prudent regulatory basis to cover the potential exposure.
If these prudent assumptions were strengthened by 5 per cent then it is estimated that post tax pro t would be decreased by approximately 30 million 2011: 27 million.
Mortality and morbidity has a symmetrical effect on the portfolio and any weakening of these assumptions would have a similar equal and opposite impact.
ii Sensitivity of IFRS basis profi t and shareholders equity to currency translation risk Consistent with the Groups accounting policies, the pro ts of the Asia insurance operations are translated at average exchange rates and shareholders equity at the closing rate for the reporting period.
For 2012, the rates for the most signi cant operations are given in note B4.
A 10 per cent increase or decrease in these rates would have reduced or increased pro t before tax attributable to shareholders, pro t for the year and shareholders equity, excluding goodwill, attributable to Asia operations respectively as follows: A 10% increase in local A 10% decrease in local currency to exchange rates currency to exchange rates 2012 m 2011 m 2012 m 2011 m note Pro t before tax attributable to shareholders 90 57 110 70 Pro t for the year 75 46 92 56 Shareholders equity, excluding goodwill, attributable to Asia operations 243 228 297 278 Note Sensitivity on profi t loss before tax ie aggregate of the operating profi t based on longer-term investment returns and short-term fl uctuations in investment returns.
i Duration of liabilities The table below shows the carrying value of policyholder liabilities.
The table below also shows the maturity pro le of the cash ows, taking account of expected future premiums and investment returns for 2012 and 2011: 2012 m 2011 m Policyholder liabilities 34,601 30,862 % % Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 23 22 5 to 10 years 19 19 10 to 15 years 17 15 15 to 20 years 13 13 20 to 25 years 9 10 Over 25 years 19 21 238 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses The primary purpose of this section is to meet the disclosure requirements of FRS 27, the UK GAAP Standard on Life Assurance.
Prudential, together with other major UK life assurers, undertook to the UK Accounting Standards Board in 2004 to adopt this standard for Group IFRS reporting.
Under the disclosure requirements of FRS 27 the capital position statement and related footnotes are prepared by reference to local regulation.
a Summary statement The Groups estimated capital position for life assurance businesses with reconciliations to shareholders equity is shown below.
As noted above, available capital for each fund or group of companies has been determined by reference to local regulation at 31 December 2012 and 2011.
2012 m Parent company and shareOther holders Total UK life Asia equity of PAC assurance life Total life M &G other withsubsidiassurance assurance including subsidiprofi ts aries and  aries and Group SAIF WPSF fund funds Jackson aries tions Capital funds total note i note ii Group shareholders equity Held outside long-term funds: Net assets 920 4,343 2,290 7,553 393 1,143 6,803 Goodwill 239 239 1,153 77 1,469 Total 920 4,343 2,529 7,792 1,546 1,066 8,272 note iii Held in long-term funds 2,087 2,087 2,087 Total Group shareholders equity 3,007 4,343 2,529 9,879 1,546 1,066 10,359 Adjustments to regulatory basis Unallocated surplus of note v with-pro ts funds 10,526 10,526 63 10,589 Shareholders share of realistic liabilities 2,469 2,469 2,469 Deferred acquisition costs of non-participating business not recognised for regulatory reporting purposes and goodwill 6 6 103 3,199 893 4,201 note iv Jackson surplus notes 153 153 Investment and policyholder liabilities valuation differences between IFRS and regulatory basis for note vii Jackson 696 696 Adjustment from IAS 19 basis pension fide cit attributable to WPSF to pension liability for regulatory purposes 107 107 107 Valuation difference on PAL between IFRS basis and regulatory basis 215 215 215 Other adjustments to restate these amounts to a regulatory basis with SAIF and the WPSF on a Peak 2 note v realistic basis 729 729 534 906 78 435 Total adjustments 7,000 7,000 637 1,444 908 4,011 Total available capital resources of life assurance businesses on local regulatory bases 7,000 7,000 2,370 2,899 1,621 13,890 D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 239 2012 m Other UK life Total PAC assurance Asia life Total life with-profi ts subsidiaries assurance assurance SAIF WPSF fund and funds Jackson subsidiaries operations note i note ii Policyholder liabilities With-pro ts liabilities of UK regulated with-pro ts funds: Insurance contracts 7,217 29,353 36,570 6,696 43,266 Investment contracts with discretionary participation features 352 33,112 33,464 95 33,559 Total 7,569 62,465 70,034 6,791 76,825 Other liabilities: Insurance contracts: With-pro ts liabilities of non-UK regulated funds 6,597 6,597 Unit-linked, including variable annuity 29 29 6,086 49,298 14,028 69,441 Other life assurance business 309 14,013 14,322 27,259 40,894 7,058 89,533 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features principally unit-linked and similar contracts in the UK and note vi GIC liabilities of Jackson 22 22 16,160 2,069 127 18,378 Total 309 14,064 14,373 49,505 92,261 27,810 183,949 Total policyholder liabilities shown in the consolidated statement of fi financial position 7,878 76,529 84,407 49,505 92,261 34,601 260,774 240 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses continued 2011 m Parent company and shareOther holders Total UK life Asia equity of PAC assurance life Total life M &G other withsubsidiassurance assurance including subsidiprofi ts aries and  aries and Group SAIF WPSF fund funds Jackson aries tions Capital funds total note i note ii Group shareholders equity Held outside long-term funds: Net assets 930 3,761 2,071 6,762 229 1,514 5,477 Goodwill 235 235 1,153 77 1,465 Total 930 3,761 2,306 6,997 1,382 1,437 6,942 note iii Held in long-term funds 1,622 1,622 1,622 Total Group shareholders equity 2,552 3,761 2,306 8,619 1,382 1,437 8,564 Adjustments to regulatory basis Unallocated surplus of note v with-pro ts funds 9,165 9,165 50 9,215 Shareholders share of realistic liabilities 2,394 2,394 2,394 Deferred acquisition costs of non-participating business not recognised for regulatory reporting purposes and goodwill 6 6 111 3,095 929 4,141 note iv Jackson surplus notes 160 160 Investment and policyholder liabilities valuation differences between IFRS and regulatory basis for note vii Jackson 1,002 1,002 Adjustment from IAS 19 basis pension fide cit attributable to WPSF to pension liability for regulatory purposes 16 16 16 Valuation difference on PAL between IFRS basis and regulatory basis 640 640 640 Other adjustments to restate these amounts to a regulatory basis with SAIF and the WPSF on a Peak 2 note v realistic basis 2 2 504 699 66 259 Total adjustments 6,139 6,139 615 1,234 813 3,477 Total available capital resources of life assurance businesses on local regulatory bases 6,139 6,139 1,937 2,527 1,493 12,096 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 241 2011 m Other UK life Total PAC assurance Asia life Total life with-profi ts subsidiaries assurance assurance SAIF WPSF fund and funds Jackson subsidiaries operations note i note ii Policyholder liabilities With-pro ts liabilities of UK regulated with-pro ts funds: note viii Insurance contracts 7,934 30,077 38,011 6,777 44,788 Investment contracts with discretionary participation features 412 28,936 29,348 397 29,745 Total 8,346 59,013 67,359 7,174 74,533 Other liabilities: Insurance contracts: With-pro ts liabilities of non-UK regulated funds 5,419 5,419 Unit-linked, including variable note viii annuity 26 26 6,387 37,833 12,015 56,261 Other life assurance business 209 13,365 13,574 24,734 29,445 6,142 73,895 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features principally unit-linked and similar contracts in the UK and GIC note vi liabilities of Jackson 17 17 14,927 1,911 112 16,967 Total 209 13,408 13,617 46,048 69,189 23,688 152,542 Total policyholder liabilities shown in the consolidated statement of fi financial position 8,555 72,421 80,976 46,048 69,189 30,862 227,075 Notes i WPSF unallocated surplus includes amounts related to the Hong Kong branch.
Policyholder liabilities of the Hong Kong branch are included in the amounts of Asia life assurance subsidiaries.
ii Excluding PAC shareholders equity that is included in parent company and shareholders equity of other subsidiaries and funds.
iii The term shareholders equity held in long-term funds refers to the excess of assets over liabilities attributable to shareholders of funds which are required by law to be maintained, ring-fenced with segregated assets and liabilities.
iv For regulatory purposes the Jackson surplus notes are accounted for as capital.
v Other adjustments to shareholders equity and unallocated surplus include amounts for the value of non-participating business for UK regulated with-profi ts funds, deferred tax, admissibility and other items measured diff erently on the regulatory basis.
For Jackson, the principal reconciling item is deferred tax related to the diff erences between IFRS and regulatory basis, as shown in the table above, and other methodology diff erences.
vi Insurance business accounted for as fi financial instruments under IAS 39. vii The investment and policyholder liabilities valuation diff erence between IFRS and regulatory bases for Jackson is mainly due to not all investments being carried at fair value under the regulatory basis and also due to the valuation diff erence on annuity reserves.
viii The allocation between the with-profi ts liabilities and unit-linked liabilities within the WPSF column have been adjusted for those previously published to align with the basis of presentation applied in 2012.
242 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses continued b Basis of preparation, capital requirements and management Each of the Groups long-term business operations is capitalised to a suf ciently strong level for its individual circumstances.
Details by the Groups major operations are shown below.
i UK insurance operations The FSA rules which govern the Prudential regulation of insurance form part of the Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers, the General Prudential Sourcebook and Interim Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers.
Overall, the net requirements of the General Prudential Sourcebook are intended to align the capital adequacy requirements for insurance business more closely with those of banking and investment rms and building societies, for example, by addressing tiers of capital, rather than looking at net admissible assets.
An insurer must hold capital resources equal at least to the Minimum Capital Requirement MCR.
The Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers also contains rules on Individual Capital Assessments.
Under these rules, and the rules of the General Prudential Sourcebook, all insurers must assess for themselves the amount of capital needed to back their business.
If the FSA views the results of this assessment as insuf cient, it may draw up its own Individual Capital Guidance for a rm, which can be superimposed as a requirement.
PAC WPSF and SAIF Under FSA rules, insurers with with-pro ts liabilities of more than 500 million must hold capital equal to the higher of the MCR and the Enhanced Capital Requirement ECR.
The ECR is intended to provide a more risk responsive and realistic measure of a with-pro t insurers capital requirements, whereas the MCR is, broadly speaking, equivalent to the previous required minimum margin under the Interim Prudential Sourcebook and satis es the minimum EU Standards.
Determination of the ECR involves the comparison of two separate measurements of the rms resources requirement, which the FSA refers to as the twin peaks approach.
The two separate peaks are: i The requirement comprised by the mathematical reserves plus the Long-Term Insurance Capital Requirement LTICR, together known as the regulatory peak: and ii A calculation of the realistic present value of the insurers expected future contractual liabilities together with projected fair discretionary bonuses to policyholders, plus a risk capital margin, together known as the realistic peak.
Available capital of the WPSF and SAIF of 7.0 billion 2011: 6.1 billion represents the excess of assets over liabilities on the FSA realistic basis.
Unlike the previously discussed FRS 27 basis, realistic liabilities on the regulatory basis include the shareholders share of future bonuses.
These amounts are shown before deduction of the risk capital margin RCM, which is estimated to be 1.5 billion at 31 December 2012 2011: 2.0 billion.
The FSAs basis of setting the RCM is to target a level broadly equivalent to a Standard & Poors credit rating of BBB and to judge this by ensuring there are suf cient assets to absorb a one in 200 year event.
The RCM calculation achieves this by setting rules for the determination of margins to cover fide ned stress changes in asset values and yields for market risk, credit risk and termination risk for with-pro ts policies.
PAC has discretion in its management actions in the case of adverse investment conditions.
Management actions encompass, but are not con ned to, investment allocation decisions, levels of reversionary bonuses, crediting rates and total claim values.
Other UK life assurance subsidiaries and funds The available capital of 2,370 million 2011: 1,937 million re ects the excess of regulatory basis assets over liabilities of the subsidiaries and funds, before deduction of the capital resources requirement of 1,376 million 2011: 1,194 million.
The capital resources requirement for these companies broadly re ects a formula which, for active funds, equates to a percentage of regulatory reserves plus a percentage of death strains.
Death strains represent the payments made to policyholders upon death in excess of amounts explicitly allocated to fund the provisions for policyholders claims and maturities.
D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 243 ii Jackson The regulatory framework for Jackson is governed by the requirements of the US NAIC approved risk-based capital standards.
Under these requirements life insurance companies report using a formula-based capital standard that they calculate by applying factors to various asset, premium and reserve items and separate model based calculations of risk associated primarily with variable annuity products.
The risk-based capital formula takes into account the risk characteristics of a company, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk, market risk and business risk.
The available capital of Jackson shown above of 2,899 million 2011: 2,527 million re ects US regulatory basis assets less liabilities, including asset valuation reserves.
The asset valuation reserve is designed to provide for future credit-related losses on debt securities and losses on equity investments.
Available capital includes a reduction for the effect of the interest maintenance reserve, which is designed by state regulators to defer recognition of non-credit related realised capital gains and losses and to recognise them rateably in the future.
Jacksons risk-based capital ratio is signi cantly in excess of regulatory requirements.
At 31 December 2012, Jackson had a permitted practice in effect as granted by the local regulator allowing Jackson to carry certain interest rate swaps at book value, as if statutory hedge accounting were in place, instead of at fair value, as would have been otherwise required.
Jackson was also required to demonstrate the effectiveness of its interest rate swap programme pursuant to the Michigan Insurance Code.
The total effect of this permitted practice net of tax was to decrease statutory surplus by 357 million at 31 December 2012.
Michigan insurance law speci cally allows value of business acquired VOBA as an admitted asset as long as certain criteria are met.
US NAIC standards limit the admitted amount of goodwill VOBA generally to 10 per cent of capital and surplus.
At 31 December 2012, Jackson reported 289 million of statutory basis VOBA as a result of the REALIC acquisition, which is fully admissible under Michigan insurance law.
iii Asia operations The available capital shown above of 1,621 million 2011: 1,493 million represents the excess of local regulatory basis assets over liabilities before deduction of required capital of 661 million 2011: 608 million.
These amounts have been determined applying the local regulations in each of the operations.
The businesses in Asia are subject to local capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate.
The Hong Kong business branch of PAC and its capital requirements are subsumed within those of the PAC long-term fund.
For the other material Asian operations, the details of the basis of determining regulatory capital and regulatory capital requirements are as follows: Singapore A risk-based regulatory framework applies in Singapore.
For participating business, a gross premium reserve, determined using prudent best estimate assumptions and which makes allowance for future bonus, is held.
The amount held is subject to a minimum of the higher of the assets attributed to participating business and a gross premium reserve calculated on speci ed assumptions, but without allowance for future bonus, that include prescribed provisions for adverse deviations PADs.
For non-participating business, gross premium reserves are held.
For linked business the value of units is held together with a non-unit reserve calculated in accordance with standard actuarial methodology: Indonesia Solvency capital is determined using a risk-based capital approach.
Insurance companies in Indonesia are expected to maintain the level of net assets above 120 per cent of solvency capital.
Due to the 2008 financial crisis, the local regulator provided relief in solvency capital and the measure continued until 1 January 2012, when it was withdrawn.
The withdrawal of this temporary relief did not have a signi cant impact on the Groups Indonesia business: Japan Mathematical reserves for traditional business are determined on a net premium basis using prescribed mortality and interest rates.
Interest rates re ect the original pricing assumptions.
For linked business the value of units is held together with a non-unit reserve calculated in accordance with standard actuarial methodology.
Solvency capital is determined using a risk-based capital approach.
The adjusted solvency capital assets of the Company must exceed 200 per cent of the risk related capital requirement value at risk.
A number of changes to the risk-based capital rules in Japan were effective in April 2012, but the changes did not have a signi cant impact on the Groups Japan business: 244 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses continued Malaysia A risk-based capital framework applies in Malaysia.
For participating business, a gross premium reserve on the guaranteed and non-guaranteed bene ts determined using best estimate assumptions is held.
The amount held is subject to a minimum of a gross premium reserve on the guaranteed bene ts, determined using best estimate assumptions along with provisions of risk margin for adverse deviations discounted at the risk-free rate.
For non-participating business, gross premium reserves determined using best estimate assumptions along with provisions of risk margin for adverse deviations discounted at the risk-free rate are held.
For linked business, the value of units is held together with a non-unit reserve calculated in accordance with standard actuarial methodology.
Participating fund surplus is not allowed to be used to support fide cit if any and capital requirement of the non-participating business.
The capital requirement is calculated based on a prescribed series of risk charges.
The local regulator has set a Supervisory Target Capital Level of 130 per cent below which supervisory actions of increasing intensity will be taken.
Each insurer is also required to set its own Individual Target Capital Level to re ect its own risk pro le and this is expected to be higher than the Supervisory Target Capital Level: Vietnam Mathematical reserves are calculated using a modi ed net premium approach, set using assumptions agreed with the regulator.
The capital requirement is determined as 4 per cent of reserves plus a speci ed percentage of 0.1 per cent of sums at risk for policies with original term less than or equal to five years or 0.3 per cent of sums at risk for policies with original term of more than five years.
An additional capital requirement of Vietnamese Dong 200 billion is also required for companies transacting unit-linked business: and Korea Policy reserves for traditional business are determined on net premium reserve basis using pricing mortality and prescribed standard interest rates.
For linked business, the value of units is held together with the non-unit reserves calculated in accordance with regulatory standard actuarial methodology.
A risk-based capital framework applies in Korea.
Under this risk-based framework, insurance companies in Korea are expected to maintain a level of free surplus in excess of the capital requirements, with the general target level of solvency margin being in excess of 150 per cent of the risk-based capital.
iv Group capital requirements In addition to the requirements at individual company level, FSA requirements under the IGD apply additional prudential requirements for the Group as a whole.
Discussion of the Groups estimated IGD position at 31 December 2012, together with market risk sensitivity disclosure provided to key management, is provided in the business review section of the Groups 2012 Annual Report.
c Movements in total available capital Total available capital for the Groups life assurance operations has changed as follows: 2012 m Other UK life assurance Asia life subsidiaries assurance Group WPSF and funds Jackson subsidiaries Total note i note iii note ii note iv Available capital at 31 December 2011 6,139 1,937 2,527 1,493 12,096 Changes in assumptions 136 145 30 251 Changes in management policy 500 24 476 Changes in regulatory requirements 27 27 note v New business and other factors 497 578 372 95 1,542 Available capital at 31 December 2012 7,000 2,370 2,899 1,621 13,890 D: Life assurance business Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 245 2011 m Other UK life assurance Asia life subsidiaries assurance Group WPSF and funds Jackson subsidiaries Total note i note iii note ii note iv Available capital at 31 December 2010 6,800 1,707 2,907 1,378 12,792 Changes in assumptions 60 38 32 54 Changes in management policy 15 15 Changes in regulatory requirements 17 17 note v New business and other factors 586 192 380 130 644 Available capital at 31 December 2011 6,139 1,937 2,527 1,493 12,096 Notes i WPSF The increase in 2012 of 861 million refl ects primarily the positive impact of investment returns earned on the opening available capital.
The decrease in 2011 of 661 million refl ects primarily the negative eff ect of the lower interest rate used to value projected policyholder benefi t payments, partially off set by the positive impact of investment returns earned on the opening available capital.
ii Jackson The increase of 372 million in 2012 refl ects an underlying increase of 483 million applying the 2012 year end exchange rate of US$1.63:1.00 and 111 million of exchange translation loss.
The decrease of 380 million in 2011 refl ects an underlying decrease of 402 million applying the 2011 year end exchange rate of US$1.55:1.00 and 22 million of exchange translation gains.
iii Other UK life assurance subsidiaries and funds The eff ect from the changes in assumptions of valuation interest rates on insurance liabilities is broadly matched by the corresponding eff ect on assets leaving no signifi cant impact on the available capital.
iv Asia life assurance subsidiaries The increase of 128 million in 2012 refl ects an underlying increase of 177 million applying the relevant 2012 year end exchange rates and 49 million of exchange translation loss.
The increase of 115 million in 2011 refl ected an underlying increase of 134 million applying the relevant 2011 year end exchange rates and 19 million of exchange translation loss.
v New business and other factors comprise the eff ect of changes in new business, valuation interest rate, investment return, foreign exchange and other factors.
d Transferability of available capital For PAC and all other UK long-term insurers, long-term business assets and liabilities must, by law, be maintained in funds separate from those for the assets and liabilities attributable to non-life insurance business or to shareholders.
Only the established surplus, the excess of assets over liabilities in the long-term fund determined through a formal valuation, may be transferred so as to be available for other purposes.
Distributions from the with-pro ts sub-fund to shareholders re ect the shareholders one-ninth share of the cost of declared policyholders bonuses.
Accordingly, the excess of assets over liabilities of the PAC long-term fund is retained within that company.
The retention of the capital enables it to support with-pro ts and other business of the fund by, for example, providing the bene ts associated with smoothing and guarantees.
It also provides investment exibility for the funds assets by meeting the regulatory capital requirements that demonstrate solvency and by absorbing the costs of signi cant events or fundamental changes in its long-term business without affecting the bonus and investment policies.
For other UK long-term business subsidiaries, the amounts retained within the companies are at levels which provide an appropriate level of capital strength in excess of the regulatory minimum.
For Jackson, capital retention is maintained at a level consistent with an appropriate rating by Standard & Poors.
Currently Jackson is rated AA.
Jackson can pay dividends on its capital stock only out of earned surplus, unless prior regulatory approval is obtained.
Furthermore, dividends which exceed the greater of statutory net gain from operations for the prior year, or 10 per cent of Jacksons statutory surplus, require prior regulatory approval.
For Asian subsidiaries, the amounts retained within the companies are at levels that provide an appropriate level of capital strength in excess of the local regulatory minimum.
For ring-fenced with-pro ts funds, the excess of assets over liabilities is retained with distribution tied to the shareholders share of bonuses through declaration of actuarially determined surplus.
The Singapore and Malaysian businesses may, in general, remit dividends to the UK, provided the statutory insurance fund meets the capital adequacy standard required under local statutory regulations.
Available capital of the non-insurance business units is transferable to the life assurance businesses after taking account of an appropriate level of operating capital, based on local regulatory solvency targets, over and above basis liabilities.
246 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 D: L ife assurance business continued D5: Capital position statement for life assurance businesses continued e Sensitivity of liabilities and total capital to changed market conditions and capital management policies Prudential manages its assets, liabilities and capital locally, in accordance with local regulatory requirements and re ecting the different types of liabilities Prudential has in each business.
As a result of the diversity of products offered by Prudential, and the different regulatory requirements in which it operates, Prudential employs differing methods of asset liability and capital management, depending on the business concerned.
Stochastic modelling of assets and liabilities is undertaken in the UK, Jackson and Asia to assess the economic capital requirements.
A stochastic approach models the inter-relationship between asset and liability movements, taking into account asset correlation, management actions and policyholder behaviour under a large number of alternative economic scenarios.
In addition, reserve adequacy testing under a range of scenarios and dynamic solvency testing is carried out, including under certain scenarios mandated by the UK, US and Asian regulators.
The sensitivity of liabilities and other components of total capital vary depending upon the type of business concerned and this conditions the approach to asset liability management.
For example, for businesses that are most sensitive to interest rate changes, such as immediate annuity business, Prudential uses cash ow analysis to create a portfolio of debt securities whose value changes in line with the value of liabilities when interest rates change.
This type of analysis helps protect pro ts from changing interest rates.
This type of analysis is used in the UK for annuity business and by Jackson for its interest-sensitive and xed indexed annuities and stable value products.
For businesses that are most sensitive to equity price changes, Prudential uses stochastic modelling and scenario testing to look at the future returns on its investments under different scenarios which best re ect the large diversity in returns that equities can produce.
This allows Prudential to devise an investment and with-pro ts policyholder bonus strategy that, on the model assumptions, allows it to optimise returns to its policyholders and shareholders over time, while maintaining appropriate financial strength.
Prudential uses this methodology extensively in connection with its UK with-pro ts business.
f Intragroup arrangements in respect of SAIF Should the assets of SAIF be inadequate to meet the guaranteed bene t obligations of the policyholders of SAIF, the PAC long-term fund would be liable to cover any such fide ciency in the first instance.
The directors believe that the probability of either the PAC long-term fund or the Groups shareholders funds having to contribute to SAIF is remote.
E: Asset management including US broker-dealer and other operations Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 247 E: A sset management including US broker-dealer and other operations E1: Income statement for asset management operations The Groups asset management operations are based in the UK, Asia and the US where they operate different models and under different brands tailored to their markets.
Asset management in the UK and Europe is undertaken through M&G which is made up of three distinct businesses being Retail, Institutional and Finance.
M&Gs investment expertise covers all key asset classes, equities, xed interest and commercial real estate, and includes a number of specialist xed income and real estate strategies.
M&G manages its own retail fund operations, funds for pensions, insurance companies and third-party entities.
Asset management in the US is undertaken through PPM America which manages assets for the Groups UK, Asia and US af liates plus also provides investment services to other af liated and unaf liated institutional clients including collateralised debt obligations CDOs, private investment funds, institutional accounts and mutual funds.
In addition, broker-dealer activities are undertaken in the US where trades in securities are carried out for both third-party customers and for its own account.
Eastspring Investments in Asia serves both the life companies in Asia by managing the life funds and funds underlying the investment linked products and third-party customers through mutual fund business.
Asia offers mutual fund investment products in a number of countries within the region, allowing customers to participate in debt, equity and money market investments.
Other operations cover unallocated corporate activities and includes the head of ce functions.
a The pro t included in the income statement in respect of asset management operations for the year is as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Eastspring M&G US Investments Total Total note iii Revenue excluding revenue of consolidated investment funds and NPH broker-dealer fees 1,234 296 282 1,812 1,583 note i Revenue of consolidated investment funds 11 11 9 note i NPH broker-dealer fees 435 435 405 Gross revenue 1,223 731 282 2,236 1,997 Charges excluding charges of consolidated investment funds and NPH broker-dealer fees 713 257 207 1,177 1,147 note i Charges of consolidated investment funds 11 11 9 note i NPH broker-dealer fees 435 435 405 Gross charges 702 692 207 1,601 1,561 Profi t before tax 521 39 75 635 436 Comprising: Operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns 371 39 75 485 461 note ii Short-term uctuations in investment returns 93 93 29 Shareholders share of actuarial gains and losses on fide ned bene t pension schemes 15 15 4 Gain on dilution of Group's holdings 42 42 Profi t before tax 521 39 75 635 436 For 2012, gross revenue includes the Groups share of results from the associate PPM South Africa.
In prior years, PPM South Africa was treated as a subsidiary and accounted for accordingly.
Notes i Under IFRS, disclosure details of segment revenue are required.
The segment revenue of the Groups asset management operations are required to include two items that are for amounts which, refl ecting their commercial nature, are also wholly refl ected as charges within the income statement.
Aft er allowing for these charges, there is no eff ect on profi t from these two items which are: a Investment funds which are managed on behalf of third parties and are consolidated under IFRS in recognition of the control arrangements for the funds.
The gains and losses of these funds are non-recourse to M&G and the Group: and b NPH broker-dealer fees which represent commissions received, that are then paid on to the writing brokers on sales of investment products.
The presentation in the table above shows the amounts attributable to these two items so that the underlying revenue and charges can be seen.
ii Short-term fl uctuations in investment returns for M&G are primarily in respect of unrealised fair value movements on Prudential Capitals bond portfolio.
iii Included within Eastspring Investments revenue and charges are 42 million of commissions 2011: 44 million.
248 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 E: A sset management including US broker-dealer and other operations continued E1: Income statement for asset management operations continued b M&G operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns: 2012 m 2011 m Asset management fee income 728 662 Other income 6 4 Staff costs 289 270 Other costs 147 134 Underlying pro t before performance-related fees 298 262 Share of associate results 13 26 Performance-related fees 9 13 Operating pro t from asset management operations 320 301 Operating pro t from Prudential Capital 51 56 Total M&G operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns 371 357 Following the divestment in the fi first half of 2012 of M&Gs holding in PPM South Africa from 75 per cent to 49.99 per cent and its treatment from 2012 as an associate, M&Gs operating income and expense no longer include any element from PPM South Africa, with the share of associates results being presented in a separate line.
The table above refl ects the retrospective application of this basis of presentation for the 2011 results.
Total profi t remains the same.
The difference between the fees and other income shown above in respect of asset management operations, and the revenue gure for M&G shown excluding consolidated investment funds in the main table primarily relates to the total revenue of Prudential Capital including short-term uctuations of 218 million 2011: 96 million and commissions which have been netted off in arriving at the fee income of 728 million 2011: 662 million in the table above.
The difference in the presentation of commission is aligned with how management reviews the business.
E: Asset management including US broker-dealer and other operations Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 249 E2: Statement of fi financial position for asset management operations Assets, liabilities and shareholders equity included in the Group consolidated statement of financial position in respect of asset management operations are as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Eastspring M&G USInvestments Total Total note iii Assets Intangible assets: Goodwill 1,153 16 61 1,230 1,230 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangibles assets 10 2 2 14 16 Total 1,163 18 63 1,244 1,246 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 901 174 83 1,158 1,129 Associate investments accounted for using the equity method 41 41 Financial investments: note i Loans 1,199 1,199 1,256 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 50 20 70 594 note ii Debt securities 1,839 7 1,846 1,842 Other investments 38 6 44 78 Deposits 3 33 48 84 89 Total investments 3,170 39 75 3,284 3,859 Cash and cash equivalents 909 48 126 1,083 1,735 Total assets 6,143 279 347 6,769 7,969 Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 1,545 124 268 1,937 1,783 Non-controlling interests 5 Total equity 1,545 124 268 1,937 1,788 Liabilities Core structural borrowing of shareholdernanced operations 275 275 250 Intra-group debt represented by operational borrowings at note iv Group level 2,084 2,084 2,956 Net asset value attributable to external holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 162 162 678 note v Other non-insurance liabilities 2,077 155 79 2,311 2,297 Total liabilities 4,598 155 79 4,832 6,181 Total equity and liabilities 6,143 279 347 6,769 7,969 Notes i Loans The M&G loans relate to loans and receivables managed by Prudential Capital.
These assets are generally secured but most have no external credit ratings.
Internal ratings prepared by the Groups asset management operations as part of the risk management process are: 2012 m 2011 m Loans and receivables internal ratings: A to A- 129 BBB to BBB- 836 1,000 BB to BB- 339 89 B to B- 24 38 Total M&G loans 1,199 1,256 250 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 E: A sset management including US broker-dealer and other operations continued E2: Statement of fi financial position for asset management operations continued ii Debt securities Of the 1,846 million total debt securities at 31 December 2012 2011: 1,842 million for asset management operations, the following amounts were held by M&G.
2012 m 2011 m M&G: AAA to Aby Standard & Poors or Aaa rated by Moodys 1,493 1,547 Other 346 287 Total M&G debt securities 1,839 1,834 iii The M&G statement of fi financial position includes the assets and liabilities in respect of Prudential Capital.
iv Intra-group debt represented by operational borrowings at Group level Operational borrowings for M&G are in respect of Prudential Capitals short-term fi xed income security programme and comprise: 2012 m 2011 m Commercial paper 1,535 2,706 Medium-Term Notes 549 250 Total intra-group debt represented by operational borrowings at Group level 2,084 2,956 v Other non-insurance liabilities consists primarily of intra-group balances, derivative liabilities and other creditors.
E3: Regulatory and other surplus for asset management operations Certain asset management operations are subject to regulatory requirements.
The movement in the year of the surplus regulatory capital position of these operations, combined with the movement in the IFRS basis shareholders funds for unregulated asset management operations, is as follows: Asset management operations 2012 m 2011 m Eastspring M&G USInvestments Total Total Regulatory and other surplus Beginning of year 156 129 127 412 432 Gains during the year 356 8 52 416 326 Movement in capital requirement 3 6 3 14 Capital injection 9 9 8 Distributions made 254 8 56 318 342 Exchange movement 5 4 9 2 End of year 255 124 134 513 412 The movement in the year re ects gains driven by pro ts generated during the year and also changes in regulatory requirements.
Distributions consist of dividends paid up to the parent company.
The M&G gures include those for Prudential Capital.
E: Asset management including US broker-dealer and other operations Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 251 E4: Sensitivity of profi t and shareholders equity to market and other fi financial risk i Currency translation Consistent with the Groups accounting policies, the pro ts of Eastspring Investments and US asset management operations are translated at average exchange rates and shareholders equity at the closing rate for the reporting period.
The rates for the functional currencies of most signi cant operations are shown in note B4.
A 10 per cent increase in the relevant exchange rates would have reduced reported pro t before tax attributable to shareholders and shareholders equity, excluding goodwill attributable to Eastspring Investments and US asset management operations, by 10 million 2011: 9 million and 29 million 2011: 30 million respectively.
ii Sensitivities to other fi financial risks for asset management operations The principal sensitivities to other financial risk of asset management operations are credit risk on the bridging loan portfolio as described in note E2 of the Prudential Capital operation and the indirect effect of changes to market values of funds under management.
Due to the nature of the asset management operations there is limited direct sensitivity to movements in interest rates.
Total debt securities held at 31 December 2012 by asset management operations were 1,846 million 2011: 1,842 million, the majority of which are held by the Prudential Capital operation.
Debt securities held by M&G and Prudential Capital are in general variable rate bonds and so market value is limited in sensitivity to interest rate movements and consequently any change in interest rates would not have a material impact on pro t or shareholders equity.
The Groups asset management operations do not hold signi cant investments in property or equities.
E5: Other operations Other operations consist of unallocated corporate activities relating to Group Head Of ce and the Asia regional head of ce, with net expenditure for the year of 498 million 2011: 483 million as detailed in note B1.
An analysis of the assets and liabilities of other operations is shown in note B5.
The Group holds certain derivatives that are used to manage foreign currency movements and macroeconomic exposures.
The fair value of these derivatives is sensitive to the combined effect of movements in exchange rates, interest rates and in ation rates.
The possible permutations cover a wide range of scenarios.
For indicative purposes, a reasonably possible range of fair value movements could be plus or minus 17 million.
252 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 F: Income statement notes F1: Segmental information Year ended 31 December 2012 m Asset management Insurance operations E1 Eastspring UnalloInvestTotal cated Group UK US Asia M&G US ments segment corporate total Gross premiums earned 7,020 14,660 8,230 29,910 29,910 Outward reinsurance premiums 135 193 178 506 506 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 6,885 14,467 8,052 29,404 29,404 note ii Investment return 14,495 6,193 3,112 251 6 8 24,065 14 24,051 Other income 213 2 153 972 725 274 2,335 314 2,021 Total revenue, net of reinsurance 21,593 20,658 11,317 1,223 731 282 55,804 328 55,476 Bene ts and claims 18,253 18,703 7,875 44,831 44,831 Outward reinsurers share of bene ts note iv and claims 159 8 108 259 259 Movement in unallocated surplus of note iii with-pro ts funds 863 518 1,381 1,381 Bene ts and claims and movements in unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds, net of reinsurance 18,957 18,711 8,285 45,953 45,953 Acquisition costs and other operating F3 expenditure 1,478 1,079 1,965 686 692 207 6,107 52 6,055 Finance costs: interest on core structural borrowings of shareholdernanced operations 13 16 29 251 280 Total charges, net of reinsurance 20,435 19,803 10,250 702 692 207 52,089 199 52,288 Pro t loss before tax being tax attributable to shareholders and note i policyholders returns 1,158 855 1,067 521 39 75 3,715 527 3,188 Tax charge attributable to policyholders returns 300 78 378 378 Pro t loss from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders 858 855 989 521 39 75 3,337 527 2,810 This is represented in the segmental analysis of pro t from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders in note B1 as follows: Year ended 31 December 2012 m Insurance operations Asset management Eastspring UnalloInvestTotal cated Group UK US Asia M&G US ments segment corporate total Operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns 736 964 913 371 39 75 3,098 565 2,533 Short-term uctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 136 90 76 93 215 11 204 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on fide ned bene t pension schemes 14 15 1 49 50 Gain on dilution of Group holdings 42 42 42 Amortisation of acquisition accounting adjustments arising on purchase of REALIC 19 19 19 Pro t loss from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders 858 855 989 521 39 75 3,337 527 2,810 F: Income statement notes Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 253 Year ended 31 December 2011 m Asset management Insurance operations E1 Eastspring UnalloInvestTotal cated Group UK US Asia M&G US ments segment corporate total Gross premiums earned 5,678 12,650 7,378 25,706 25,706 Outward reinsurance premiums 131 72 226 429 429 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 5,547 12,578 7,152 25,277 25,277 note ii Investment return 7,604 1,447 283 128 1 2 9,465 105 9,360 Other income 193 62 155 923 653 290 2,152 283 1,869 Total revenue, net of reinsurance 13,344 13,963 7,590 1,051 654 292 36,894 388 36,506 Bene ts and claims 12,048 12,931 6,081 31,060 31,060 Outward reinsurers share of bene ts note iv and claims 290 280 176 746 746 Movement in unallocated surplus of note iii with-pro ts funds 485 540 1,025 1,025 Bene ts and claims and movements in unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds, net of reinsurance 11,273 12,651 5,365 29,289 29,289 Acquisition costs and other operating F3 expenditure 1,239 815 1,562 704 630 212 5,162 42 5,120 Finance costs: interest on core structural borrowings of shareholdernanced operations 13 15 28 258 286 Total charges, net of reinsurance 12,512 13,479 6,927 719 630 212 34,479 216 34,695 Pro t loss before tax being tax attributable to shareholders and note i policyholders returns 832 484 663 332 24 80 2,415 604 1,811 Tax charge attributable to policyholders returns 68 51 17 17 Pro t loss from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders 900 484 612 332 24 80 2,432 604 1,828 This is represented in the segmental analysis of pro t from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders in note B1 as follows: Year ended 31 December 2011 m Insurance operations Asset management Eastspring UnalloInvestTotal cated Group UK US Asia M&G US ments segment corporate total Operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns 723 651 704 357 24 80 2,539 512 2,027 Short-term uctuations in investment 159 167 92 29 129 91 220 returns on shareholder-backed business Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on fide ned bene t pension schemes 18 4 22 1 21 Pro t loss from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders 900 484 612 332 24 80 2,432 604 1,828 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
254 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 F: Income statement notes continued F1: Segmental information continued Notes i This measure is the formal profi t loss before tax measure under IFRS but is not the result attributable to shareholders.
ii Investment return principally comprises: Interest and dividends: Realised and unrealised gains and losses on securities and derivatives classifi ed as fair value through profi t and loss under IAS 39: and Realised gains and losses, including impairment losses, on securities classifi ed as available-for-sale under IAS 39. iii The movement in unallocated surplus of with-profi ts funds for Asia above includes movement relating to the Hong Kong branch of PAC.
For the purpose of the presentation of unallocated surplus of with-profi ts funds within the statement of fi financial position, the Hong Kong branch balance is shown within the unallocated surplus of the PAC with-profi ts sub-fund.
iv The increase in the credit for outwards reinsurers share of benefi ts and claims for Jackson from 2010 to 2011 arises from the fair value movements on the GMIB reinsurance in 2011.
As the GMIB reinsurance is net settled it is considered to be a derivative under IAS 39.
The movement was particularly high in 2011 due to the reduction in US interest rates in 2011.
F2: Revenue 2012 m 2011 m Long-term business premiums Insurance contract premiums 27,447 23,705 Investment contracts with discretionary participation feature premiums 2,243 1,861 Inwards reinsurance premiums 220 140 Less: reinsurance premiums ceded 506 429 note iv Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 29,404 25,277 Investment return Realised and unrealised gains and losses on securities at fair value through pro t and loss 15,338 866 Realised and unrealised losses and gains on derivatives at fair value through pro t and loss 75 86 Realised losses on available-for-sale securities, previously recognised in other comprehensive income 68 101 Realised losses on loans 51 43 notes i, ii Interest 6,600 6,440 Dividends 1,462 1,304 Other investment return 559 606 Investment return 24,051 9,360 notes iii, iv Fee income from investment contract business and asset management 2,021 1,869 Total revenue 55,476 36,506 Notes i The segmental analysis of interest income is as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Insurance operations: UK 4,310 4,286 US 1,778 1,717 Asia 403 339 Asset management operations: M&G 114 110 US 1 1 Eastspring Investments 3 3 Total segment 6,609 6,456 Unallocated corporate 9 16 Total 6,600 6,440 ii Interest income includes 13 million 2011: 8 million accrued in respect of impaired securities.
iii Fee income includes 35 million 2011: 13 million relating to fi financial instruments that are not held at fair value through profi t and loss.
These fees primarily related to prepayment fees, late fees and syndication fees.
F: Income statement notes Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 255 iv The following table provides additional segmental analysis of revenue from external customers: 2012 m Asia US UK Intragroup Total Revenue from external customers: Insurance operations 8,205 14,465 7,098 29,768 Asset management 274 725 972 333 1,638 Unallocated corporate 19 19 Intragroup revenue eliminated on consolidation 84 77 172 333 Total revenue from external customers 8,395 15,113 7,917 31,425 2011 m Asia US UK Intragroup Total Revenue from external customers: Insurance operations 7,307 12,516 5,740 25,563 Asset management 290 653 923 323 1,543 Unallocated corporate 40 40 Intragroup revenue eliminated on consolidation 93 68 162 323 Total revenue from external customers 7,504 13,101 6,541 27,146 Revenue from external customers is made up of the following: 2012 m 2011 m Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 29,404 25,277 Fee income from investment contract business and asset management presented as Other income 2,021 1,869 Total revenue from external customers 31,425 27,146 In their capacity as fund managers to fellow Prudential Group subsidiaries, M&G, Eastspring Investments and US asset management businesses generate fees for investment management and related services.
These services are charged at appropriate arms length prices, typically priced as a percentage of funds under management.
Intragroup fees included within asset management revenue were earned by the following asset management segment: 2012 m 2011 m Intragroup revenue generated by: M&G 172 162 Eastspring Investments 84 93 US broker-dealer and asset management including Curian 77 68 Total intragroup fees included within asset management segment 333 323 Revenue from external customers of Asia, US and UK insurance operations shown above are net of outwards reinsurance premiums of 178 million, 193 million, and 135 million respectively 2011: 226 million, 72 million and 131 million respectively.
In Asia, revenue from external customers from no individual country exceeds 10 per cent of the Group total.
The largest country is Hong Kong with a total revenue from external customers of 1,745 million 2011: Singapore 1,383 million.
Due to the nature of the business of the Group, there is no reliance on any major customers.
256 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 F: Income statement notes continued F3: Acquisition costs and other expenditure 2012 m 2011 m Acquisition costs incurred for insurance policies 2,649 2,264 Acquisition costs deferred less amortisation of acquisition costs for insurance policies 480 520 Administration costs and other expenditure 3,728 3,524 Movements in amounts attributable to external unit holders 158 148 Total acquisition costs and other expenditure 6,055 5,120 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
Notes i Acquisition costs in 2012 comprise amounts related to insurance contracts of 1,949 million 2011: 1,679 million, and investment contracts and asset management contracts of 220 million 2011: 65 million.
ii There were no fee expenses relating to fi financial liabilities held at amortised cost included in acquisition costs in 2012 and 2011. iii The total depreciation and amortisation expense of 731 million 2011: 584 million relates to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs of insurance contracts and asset management contracts.
The segmental analysis of total depreciation and amortisation expense is as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Insurance operations: UK 65 55 US 302 237 Asia 332 270 Asset management operations: M&G 6 7 US 1 1 Eastspring Investments 4 4 Total segment 710 574 Unallocated corporate 21 10 Total 731 584 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
iv Interest expense, excluding interest on core structural borrowings of shareholder-fi nanced operations, amounted to 140 million 2011: 123 million and is included within total acquisition costs and other operating expenditure as part of investment management expenses.
The segmental analysis of this interest expense is as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Insurance operations: UK 62 49 US 28 31 Asia 7 10 Asset management operations: M&G 18 11 Total segment 115 101 Unallocated corporate 25 22 Total 140 123 F: Income statement notes Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 257 v Movements in amounts attributable to external unit holders are in respect of those OEIC and unit trusts which are required to be consolidated and comprises a charge of 195 million 2011: a credit of 28 million for UK insurance operations and a credit of 37 million 2011: 120 million for Asia insurance operations.
vi The total amounts for acquisition costs and other expenditure shown above includes Corporate expenditure shown in note B1 Segment disclosure income statement.
The charge for Corporate expenditure comprises: 2012 m 2011 m Group Head Of ce 168 168 Asia Regional Head Of ce: Gross costs 99 86 Recharges to Asia operations 36 35 63 51 Total 231 219 F4: Finance costs Interest on core structural borrowings of shareholder-fi nanced operations Finance costs of 280 million 2011: 286 million comprise 251 million 2011: 258 million interest on core debt of the parent company, 13 million 2011: 13 million on US insurance operations surplus notes and 16 million 2011: 15 million on PruCaps bank loan.
F5: Tax a Total tax charge by nature of expense An analysis of the total tax bene t expense of continuing operations recognised in the income statement by nature of bene t expense is as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Current tax expense: Corporation tax 950 775 Adjustments in respect of prior years 143 33 Total current tax 807 742 Deferred tax arising from: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 178 293 Expense credit in respect of a previously unrecognised tax loss, tax credit or temporary difference from a prior period 6 57 Total deferred tax charge credit 184 350 Total tax charge 991 392 The total tax expense arises as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Current tax expense: UK 393 475 Foreign 414 267 807 742 Deferred tax charge credit: UK 45 455 Foreign 139 105 184 350 Total 991 392 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in the accounting policy described in note A5.
258 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 F: Income statement notes continued F5: Tax continued The current tax charge of 807 million includes 18 million 2011: charge of 16 million in respect of the tax charge for Hong Kong.
The Hong Kong current tax charge is calculated as 16.5 per cent for all periods on either i 5 per cent of the net insurance premium or ii the estimated assessable pro ts, depending on the nature of the business written.
In the UK, life insurance companies are taxed on both their shareholders pro ts and on their policyholders investment returns on certain insurance and investment products.
Tax on shareholders pro ts is calculated at the standard corporation tax rate, and tax on policyholders investment returns is calculated at the basic rate of income tax.
Although both types of tax are included in the total tax charge in the Groups consolidated income statement, they are presented separately in the income statement to provide the most relevant information about tax that the Group pays on its pro ts.
Until the end of 2012 for the Groups UK life insurance companies, shareholders pro ts were calculated using regulatory surplus as a starting point, with appropriate deferred tax adjustments for IFRS.
Beginning in 2013, under new UK life tax rules, shareholders pro ts will be calculated using accounting pro t or loss as a starting point.
The total tax charge comprises tax attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds, unit-linked policies and shareholders as shown below.
2012 m 2011 m Current Deferred Tax charge tax tax Total Total Tax charge credit to policyholders returns 488 110 378 17 Tax charge attributable to shareholders 319 294 613 409 Total tax charge 807 184 991 392 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
The principal reason for the increase in the tax charge attributable to policyholders returns is an increase in deferred tax on unrealised gains and losses on investments.
The total deferred tax charge credit arises as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Unrealised gains and losses on investments 91 129 Balances relating to investment and insurance contracts 467 148 Short-term timing differences 226 66 Capital allowances 2 Unused tax losses 334 5 Deferred tax charge credit 184 350 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
In 2012, a deferred tax charge of 198 million 2011: charge of 187 million has been taken through other comprehensive income.
Other movements in deferred tax totalling a 378 million credit mainly arises as a result of bringing a deferred tax asset in respect of the acquired REALIC business on to the balance sheet.
When these amounts are taken with the deferred tax charge shown above there is no signi cant change in the Groups net deferred tax liability 2011: decrease of 0.1 billion.
F: Income statement notes Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 259 b Reconciliation of eff ective tax rate The total tax charge is attributable to shareholders and policyholders as summarised in the income statement.
i Summary of pre-tax profi t and tax charge The income statement includes the following items: 2012 m 2011 m Pro t before tax 3,188 1,811 Tax charge credit attributable to policyholders returns 378 17 Pro t before tax attributable to shareholders 2,810 1,828 Tax attributable to shareholders pro ts: Tax charge 991 392 Less: tax attributable to policyholders returns 378 17 Tax charge attributable to shareholders returns 613 409 Pro t for the year 2,197 1,419 The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
ii Overview For the purposes of explaining the relationship between tax expense and accounting pro t, it is appropriate to consider the sources of pro t and tax by reference to those that are attributable to shareholders and policyholders, as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Attributable to Attributable to Attributable to Attributable to shareholders policyholders Total shareholders policyholders Total Pro t loss before tax 2,810 378 3,188 1,828 17 1,811 Taxation charge: Expected tax rate 27% 100% 36% 28% 100% 28% Expected tax charge credit 763 378 1,141 519 17 502 note v ii Variance from expected tax charge 150 150 110 110 Actual tax charge credit 613 378 991 409 17 392 Average effective tax rate 22% 100% 31% 22% 100% 22% The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
For the column entitled Attributable to policyholders, the profi t loss before tax represents income, before tax attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profi ts funds and unit-linked policies.
This income has been determined aft er deduction of charges for policyholder benefi ts and movements on unallocated surplus which are determined net of tax.
Hence, the pre-tax results attributable to policyholders is the inverse of the tax charge attributable to policyholders.
260 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 F: Income statement notes continued F5: Tax continued iii Reconciliation of eff ective tax rate The total tax charge is attributable to shareholders and policyholders as summarised in the income statement.
Reconciliation of tax charge on profi t attributable to shareholders for continuing operations: 2012 m except for tax rates Asia US UK insurance insurance insurance Other 2012 operations operations operations operations Total Operating pro t loss based on longer-term investment returns 913 964 736 80 2,533 Non-operating pro t loss 76 109 122 188 277 Pro t before tax attributable to shareholders 989 855 858 108 2,810 Expected tax rate: 23% 35% 25% 25% 27% Tax at the expected tax rate 227 300 210 26 763 Effects of: Adjustment to tax charge in relation to prior years 11 10 26 10 37 Movements in provisions for open tax matters 3 32 29 Income not taxable or taxable at concessionary rates 87 2 89 Deductions not allowable for tax purposes 30 3 33 Different local basis of tax on overseas pro ts 68 68 Impact of changes in local statutory tax rates 39 9 30 Deferred tax adjustments 6 8 1 1 Irrecoverable withholding taxes 14 14 Other 5 5 8 11 3 Total actual tax charge 158 234 161 60 613 Analysed into: Tax on operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns 142 272 126 42 582 Tax on non-operating pro t 16 38 35 18 31 Actual tax rate: Operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns 16% 28% 17% 53 % 23% Total pro t 16% 27% 19% 56% 22% The expected tax rates shown in the table above rounded to the nearest whole percentage refl ect the corporation tax rates generally applied to taxable profi ts of the relevant country jurisdictions.
For Asia operations the expected tax rates refl ect the corporation tax rates weighted by reference to the source of profi ts of operations contributing to the aggregate business result.
The expected tax rate for Other operations refl ects the mix of business between UK and overseas non-insurance operations, which are taxed at a variety of rates.
The rates will fl uctuate from year to year dependent on the mix of profi ts.
F: Income statement notes Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 261 2011 m except for tax rates Asia US UK insurance insurance insurance Other operations operations operations operations Total Operating pro t loss based on longer-term investment returns 704 651 723 51 2,027 Non-operating pro t 92 167 177 117 199 Pro t loss before tax attributable to shareholders 612 484 900 168 1,828 Expected tax rate: 25% 35% 27% 27% 28% Tax at the expected tax rate 151 170 243 45 519 Effects of: Adjustment to tax charge in relation to prior years 7 33 19 7 Movements in provisions for open tax matters 44 44 Income not taxable or taxable at concessionary rates 36 1 37 Deductions not allowable for tax purposes 12 4 16 Different local basis of tax on overseas pro ts 37 37 Impact of changes in local statutory tax rates 32 1 31 Deferred tax adjustments 7 7 Irrecoverable withholding taxes 13 13 Other 3 6 14 19 4 Total actual tax charge credit 124 127 229 71 409 Analysed into: Tax on operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns 122 185 190 64 433 Tax on non-operating pro t 2 58 39 7 24 Actual tax rate: Operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns 17% 28% 26% 125% 21% Total pro t 20% 26% 25% 42% 22% The expected tax rates shown in the table above rounded to the nearest whole percentage refl ect the corporation tax rates generally applied to taxable profi ts of the relevant country jurisdictions.
The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
c Taxes paid In 2012 Prudential remitted 2.2 billion 2011: 1.6 billion of tax to Revenue authorities, this includes 925 million 2011: 561 million of corporation tax, 184 million of other taxes and 1,078 million collected on behalf of employees, customers and third parties.
The geographical split of taxes remitted by Prudential is as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Corporation Taxes Corporation Taxes v v taxes Other taxes collected Total taxes Other taxes collected Total Asia 221 37 152 410 170 32 64 266 US 181 25 264 470 131 20 221 372 UK 522 121 662 1,305 260 112 595 967 Other 1 1 2 1 1 Total tax paid 925 184 1,078 2,187 561 165 880 1,606 In certain countries such as the UK, the corporation tax payments for the Groups life insurance businesses are based on taxable profi ts which include policyholder investment returns on certain life insurance products.
Other taxes paid includes property taxes, withholding taxes, customs duties, stamp duties, employer payroll taxes and irrecoverable indirect taxes.
Taxes collected are other taxes that Prudential remits to tax authorities which it is obliged to collect from employees, customers and third parties which includes sales VAT GST taxes, employee and annuitant payroll taxes.
262 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 G: Financial assets and liabilities G1: Financial instruments Designation and fair values The Group designates all financial assets as at fair value, either through pro t and loss or on an available-for-sale, or as loans and receivables on an amortised cost basis, net of impairment basis.
Financial liabilities are designated as either fair value through pro t and loss, amortised cost, or as investment contracts with discretionary participation features accounted for under IFRS 4 as described in note A3.
2012 m Loans and Fair value receivables Total through Availableat amortised carrying profi t and loss for-sale cost value Fair value Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 6,384 6,384 6,384 Deposits 12,653 12,653 12,653 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 99,958 99,958 99,958 note i Debt securities 107,278 32,825 140,103 140,103 note ii Loans 2,068 9,753 11,821 12,333 note iii Other investments 7,900 7,900 7,900 Accrued investment income 2,798 2,798 2,798 Other debtors 1,361 1,361 1,361 217,204 32,825 32,949 282,978 2012 m Fair value IFRS 4 Total through Amortised basis carrying profi t and loss cost value value Fair value note v Financial liabilities Core structural borrowings of shareholdernanced notes i, H13 operations 3,554 3,554 4,133 Operational borrowings attributable to H13 shareholdernanced operations 2,245 2,245 2,245 H13 Borrowings attributable to with-pro ts funds 40 993 1,033 1,042 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 2,436 2,436 2,455 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trust and similar funds 4,345 4,345 4,345 Investment contracts with discretionary note iv participation features 33,812 33,812 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 16,309 2,069 18,378 18,419 Other creditors 259 2,522 2,781 2,781 Derivative liabilities 2,829 2,829 2,829 Other liabilities 2,021 1,433 3,454 3,453 25,803 15,252 33,812 74,867 G: Financial assets and liabilities Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 263 2011 m Loans and Fair value receivables Total through Availableat amortised carrying profi t and loss for-sale cost value Fair value Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7,257 7,257 7,257 Deposits 10,708 10,708 10,708 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 87,349 87,349 87,349 note i Debt securities 97,482 27,016 124,498 124,498 note ii Loans 279 9,435 9,714 9,828 note iii Other investments 7,509 7,509 7,509 Accrued investment income 2,710 2,710 2,710 Other debtors 987 987 987 192,619 27,016 31,097 250,732 2011 m Fair value IFRS 4 Total through Amortised basis carrying profi t and loss cost value value Fair value note v Financial liabilities Core structural borrowings of shareholdernanced notes i, H13 operations 3,611 3,611 3,815 Operational borrowings attributable to H13 shareholdernanced operations 3,340 3,340 3,340 H13 Borrowings attributable to with-pro ts funds 39 933 972 978 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 3,114 3,114 3,144 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trust and similar funds 3,840 3,840 3,840 Investment contracts with discretionary note iv participation features 29,745 29,745 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 15,056 1,911 16,967 17,008 Other creditors 281 2,263 2,544 2,544 Derivative liabilities 3,054 3,054 3,054 Other liabilities 1,249 1,249 1,249 22,270 16,421 29,745 68,436 Notes i As at 31 December 2012 525 million 2011: 523 million of convertible bonds were included in debt securities and 673 million 2011: 702 million were included in borrowings.
ii Loans and receivables are reported net of allowance for loan losses of 83 million 2011: 89 million.
iii See note G3 for details of the derivative assets included.
The balance also contains the PAC with-profi ts funds participation in various investment funds and limited liability property partnerships.
iv It is impractical to determine the fair value of investment contracts with discretionary participation features due to the lack of a reliable basis to measure such features.
v For fi financial liabilities designated as fair value through profi t and loss, the impact on profi t from movements in credit risk during 2012 and 2011 was negligible.
264 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G1: Financial instruments Designation and fair values continued Determination of fair value The fair values of the financial instruments for which fair valuation is required under IFRS are determined by the use of current market bid prices for exchange-quoted investments, or by using quotations from independent third parties, such as brokers and pricing services or by using appropriate valuation techniques.
Investments valued using valuation techniques include financial investments which by their nature do not have an externally quoted price based on regular trades and financial investments for which markets are no longer active as a result of market conditions eg market illiquidity.
The valuation techniques used include comparison to recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash ow analysis, option adjusted spread models and, if applicable, enterprise valuation.
These techniques may include a number of assumptions relating to variables such as credit risk and interest rates.
Changes in assumptions relating to these variables could positively or negatively impact the reported fair value of these instruments.
When determining the inputs into the valuation techniques used priority is given to publicly available prices from independent sources when available, but overall the source of pricing is chosen with the objective of arriving at a fair value measurement which re ects the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants on the measurement date.
The fair value estimates are made at a speci c point in time, based upon available market information and judgements about the financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amount of expected future cash ows and the credit standing of counterparties.
Such estimates do not re ect any premium or discount that could result from offering for sale at one time the Groups entire holdings of a particular financial instrument, nor do they consider the tax impact of the realisation of unrealised gains or losses from selling the financial instrument being fair valued.
In some cases the disclosed value cannot be realised in immediate settlement of the financial instrument.
The loans and receivables have been shown net of provisions for impairment.
The fair value of loans has been estimated from discounted cash ows expected to be received.
The rate of discount used was the market rate of interest.
The estimated fair value of derivative financial instruments re ects the estimated amount the Group would receive or pay in an arms length transaction.
This amount is determined using quoted prices if exchange listed, quotations from independent third parties or valued internally using standard market practices.
In accordance with the Groups risk management framework, all internally generated valuations are subject to assessment against external counterparties valuations.
For investment contracts in the US with xed and guaranteed terms the fair value is determined based on the present value of future cash ows discounted at current interest rates.
The fair value of other financial liabilities is determined using discounted cash ows of the amounts expected to be paid.
Level 1, 2 and 3 fair value measurement hierarchy of Group financial instruments The table below includes financial instruments carried at fair value analysed by level of the IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures fide ned fair value hierarchy.
This hierarchy is based on the inputs to the fair value measurement and re ects the lowest level input that is signi cant to that measurement.
The classi cation criteria and its application to Prudential can be summarised as follows: Level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets and liabilities Level 1 includes financial instruments where there is clear evidence that the valuation is based on a quoted publicly traded price in an active market eg exchange listed equities, mutual funds with quoted prices and exchange traded derivatives.
Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable either directly ie as prices or indirectly ie derived from prices Level 2 includes investments where a direct link to an actively traded price is not readily apparent, but which are valued using inputs which are largely observable either directly ie as prices or indirectly ie derived from prices.
A signi cant proportion of the Groups Level 2 assets are corporate bonds, structured securities and other non-national government debt securities.
These assets, in line with market practice, are generally valued using independent pricing services or third-party broker quotes.
These valuations are determined using independent external quotations from multiple sources and are subject to a number of monitoring controls, such as monthly price variances and analysis on prices achieved on subsequent trades.
Pricing services, where available, are used to obtain the third-party broker quotes.
Where pricing services providers are used, a single valuation is obtained and applied.
G: Financial assets and liabilities Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 265 When prices are not available from pricing services, quotes are sourced directly from brokers.
Prudential seeks to obtain a number of quotes from different brokers so as to obtain the most comprehensive information available on their executability.
Where quotes are sourced directly from brokers, the price used in the valuation is normally selected from one of the quotes based on a number of factors, including the timeliness and regularity of the quotes and the accuracy of the quotes considering the spreads provided.
The selected quote is the one which best represents an executable quote for the security at the measurement date.
Generally, no adjustment is made to the prices obtained from independent third parties.
Adjustment is made in only limited circumstances, where it is determined that the third-party valuations obtained do not re ect fair value eg either because the value is stale and or the values are extremely diverse in range.
These are usually securities which are distressed or that could be subject to a debt restructure or where reliable market prices are no longer available due to an inactive market or market dislocation.
In these instances, prices are derived using internal valuation techniques including those as described above in this note with the objective of arriving at a fair value measurement which re ects the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants on the measurement date.
The techniques used require a number of assumptions relating to variables such as credit risk and interest rates.
Examples of such variables include an average credit spread based on the corporate bond universe and the relevant duration of the asset being valued.
Prudential measures the input assumptions based on the best available information at the measurement dates.
Securities valued in such manner are classi ed as Level 3 where these signi cant inputs are not based on observable market data.
Of the total Level 2 debt securities of 105,839 million at 31 December 2012 31 December 2011: 94,378 million, 8,248 million are valued internally 31 December 2011: 6,847 million.
The majority of such securities are valued using matrix pricing, which is based on assessing the credit quality of the underlying borrower to derive a suitable discount rate relative to government securities of a comparable duration.
Under matrix pricing, the debt securities are priced taking the credit spreads on comparable quoted public debt securities and applying these to the equivalent debt instruments factoring in a speci ed liquidity premium.
The majority of the parameters used in this valuation technique are readily observable in the market and, therefore, are not subject to interpretation.
Level 3 Signi cant inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs Level 3 includes investments which are internally valued or subject to a signi cant number of unobservable assumptions eg private equity funds and certain derivatives which are bespoke or long-dated.
At 31 December 2012, the Group held 6,660 million 2011: 4,565 million, 3 per cent of the fair valued financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 2011: 2 per cent, within Level 3.
Of these amounts, 3,916 million 2011: 3,732 million was held by the Groups participating funds and therefore shareholders pro t and equity are not impacted by movements in the valuation of these financial instruments.
At 31 December 2012, the 3,916 million 2011: 3,732 million represented 4.3 per cent 2011: 4.3 per cent of the total fair valued financial instruments, net of derivative liabilities of the participating funds.
Included within the 2,703 million Level 3 fair valued financial investments, net of derivative liabilities at 31 December 2012 2011: 800 million held to support non-linked shareholder-backed business were loans of 1,842 million, attaching to the purchase of REALIC in 2012 held to back the liabilities for funds withheld under reinsurance arrangement.
The funds withheld liability, which was also accounted for on a fair value basis and classi ed as Level 3, amounted to 2,021 million at 31 December 2012.
This liability is included within Other financial liabilities held at fair value in the table below.
Excluding the financial investments of 1,842 million held to back the funds withheld liability under REALICs reinsurance arrangement, the Level 3 fair valued financial investments, net of derivative liabilities, supporting non-linked shareholder-backed business at 31 December 2012 were 861 million 2011: 800 million representing 1.2 per cent of the total fair valued financial investments net of derivative liabilities backing this business 2011: 1.3 per cent.
Of this amount, 837 million of net assets are externally valued and 24 million of net liabilities are internally valued 2011: net assets of 757 million and 43 million respectively.
Internal valuations, which represent 0.03 per cent of the total fair valued financial investments net of derivative liabilities supporting non-linked shareholder-backed business at 31 December 2012 2011: 0.1 per cent, are inherently more subjective than external valuations.
If the value of all Level 3 investments backing non-linked shareholder-backed business valued internally was varied downwards by 10 per cent, the change in valuation would be 2 million 2011: 4 million, which would reduce shareholders equity by this amount before tax.
Of this amount, a 1 million increase 2011: 1 million decrease would pass through the income statement substantially as part of short-term uctuations in investment returns outside of operating pro t and a 3 million decrease 2011: 3 million decrease would be included as part of other comprehensive income, being unrealised movements on assets classi ed as available-for-sale.
266 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G1: Financial instruments Designation and fair values continued 31 December 2012 m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Analysis of fi financial investments, net of derivative liabilities by business type With-profi ts Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 22,129 2,496 480 25,105 Debt securities 15,910 45,550 542 62,002 Other investments including derivative assets 108 1,743 2,894 4,745 Derivative liabilities 61 1,072 1,133 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 38,086 48,717 3,916 90,719 Percentage of total 42% 54% 4% 100% Unit-linked and variable annuity separate account Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 73,632 189 39 73,860 Debt securities 3,843 5,659 2 9,504 Other investments including derivative assets 47 10 57 Derivative liabilities 1 1 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 77,522 5,857 41 83,420 Percentage of total 93% 7% 0% 100% Non-linked shareholder-backed Loans 226 1,842 2,068 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 937 7 49 993 Debt securities 13,721 54,630 246 68,597 Other investments including derivative assets 31 2,306 761 3,098 Derivative liabilities 16 1,484 195 1,695 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 14,673 55,685 2,703 73,061 Percentage of total 20% 76% 4% 100% Group total analysis, including other fi financial liabilities held at fair value Group total Loans 226 1,842 2,068 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 96,698 2,692 568 99,958 Debt securities 33,474 105,839 790 140,103 Other investments including derivative assets 186 4,059 3,655 7,900 Derivative liabilities 77 2,557 195 2,829 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 130,281 110,259 6,660 247,200 Borrowings attributable to the with-pro ts fund held at fair value 40 40 Investment contracts liabilities without discretionary participation features held at fair value 16,309 16,309 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 3,309 430 606 4,345 Other financial liabilities held at fair value 259 2,021 2,280 Total financial instruments at fair value 126,972 93,221 4,033 224,226 Percentage of total 57% 41% 2% 100% The Level 3 loans and other fi financial liabilities held by the non-linked shareholder-backed business include amounts of 1,842 million and 2,021 million, respectively relating to the reinsurance arrangements attaching to the purchase of REALIC as described in note I1.
G: Financial assets and liabilities Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 267 31 December 2011 m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Analysis of fi financial investments, net of derivative liabilities by business type With-profi ts Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 24,001 1,762 284 26,047 Debt securities 13,298 43,279 655 57,232 Other investments including derivative assets 252 1,378 2,793 4,423 Derivative liabilities 214 1,127 1,341 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 37,337 45,292 3,732 86,361 Percentage of total 43% 53% 4% 100% Unit-linked and variable annuity separate account Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 59,662 198 30 59,890 Debt securities 4,160 4,698 3 8,861 Other investments including derivative assets 18 95 113 Derivative liabilities 2 7 9 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 63,838 4,984 33 68,855 Percentage of total 93% 7% 0% 100% Non-linked shareholder-backed Loans 279 279 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 1,175 176 61 1,412 Debt securities 11,753 46,401 251 58,405 Other investments including derivative assets 30 2,237 706 2,973 Derivative liabilities 78 1,408 218 1,704 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 12,880 47,685 800 61,365 Percentage of total 21% 78% 1% 100% Group total analysis, including other fi financial liabilities held at fair value Group total Loans 279 279 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 84,838 2,136 375 87,349 Debt securities 29,211 94,378 909 124,498 Other investments including derivative assets 300 3,710 3,499 7,509 Derivative liabilities 294 2,542 218 3,054 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 114,055 97,961 4,565 216,581 Borrowings attributable to the with-pro ts fund held at fair value 39 39 Investment contracts liabilities without discretionary participation features held at fair value 15,056 15,056 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 2,586 805 449 3,840 Other financial liabilities held at fair value 281 281 Total financial instruments at fair value 111,469 81,780 4,116 197,365 Percentage of total 57% 41% 2% 100% Reconciliation of movements in Level 3 financial instruments measured at fair value The following tables reconcile the value of Level 3 financial instruments at 1 January 2012 to that presented at 31 December 2012 and at 1 January 2011 to that presented at 31 December 2011.
Total investment return recorded in the income statement represents interest and dividend income, realised gains and losses, unrealised gains and losses on financial instruments classi ed at fair value through pro t and loss and foreign exchange movements on an individual entitys overseas investments.
Total gains and losses recorded in other comprehensive income includes unrealised gains and losses on debt securities held as available-for-sale within Jackson and foreign exchange movements arising from the retranslation of the Groups overseas subsidiaries and branches.
268 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G1: Financial instruments Designation and fair values continued The transfers in and out of Level 3 during 2012 represent sundry individual financial investments, none of which are materially signi cant as highlighted in the table below: m Total gains losses Total recorded gains in other losses in  Transfers At income hensive tion of Purinto out of At 1 Jan statement income REALIC chases Sales Settled Issued level 3 level 3 31 Dec 2012 Loans 46 42 1,858 12 84 1,842 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 375 49 44 255 98 6 63 568 Debt securities 909 65 3 260 217 73 18 169 790 Other investments including derivative assets 3,499 250 61 482 515 3,655 Derivative liabilities 218 13 10 195 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 4,565 331 62 1,858 997 830 85 84 24 222 6,660 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 449 20 47 2 1 93 606 Other financial investments 41 46 2,075 73 106 2,021 Total 4,116 352 63 217 999 829 12 115 24 222 4,033 2011 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 576 50 1 62 278 34 375 Debt securities 1,117 46 5 274 490 21 51 73 909 Other investments including derivative assets 3,106 224 50 691 417 55 3,499 Derivative liabilities 226 17 25 218 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 4,573 303 46 1,027 1,185 21 51 137 4,565 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 379 78 10 18 449 Total 4,194 225 46 1,017 1,167 21 51 137 4,116 Of the total gains and losses in the income statement of 357 million 2011: 225 million, 126 million 2011: 99 million relates to financial instruments still held at the end of the year, which can be analysed as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Equity securities 27 49 Debt securities 51 20 Other investments 48 176 Derivative liabilities 68 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 78 Total 126 99 G: Financial assets and liabilities Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 269 Transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 During 2012, the transfers between levels within the Groups portfolio were primarily transfers from Level 1 to Level 2 of 600 million 2011: 335 million and transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 of 227 million 2011: nil.
These transfers which relate to equity securities and debt securities arose to re ect the change in the observability of the inputs used in valuing these securities.
Interest income and expense The interest income on financial assets not at fair value through pro t and loss for the year ended 31 December 2012 from continuing operations was 1,886 million 2011: 1,814 million.
The interest expense on financial liabilities not at fair value through pro t and loss for the year ended 31 December 2012 from continuing operations was 420 million 2011: 456 million.
G2: Market risk Interest rate risk The following table shows an analysis of the classes of financial assets and liabilities except for cash and cash equivalents and their direct exposure to interest rate risk.
Each applicable class of the Groups financial assets or liabilities is analysed between those exposed to fair value interest rate risk, cash ow interest rate risk and those with no direct interest rate risk exposure: 2012 m Not directly Fair value Cash fl ow exposed to interest interest interest rate risk rate risk rate risk Total Financial assets Deposits 1,021 11,445 187 12,653 Debt securities 131,732 7,851 520 140,103 Loans 8,992 2,809 20 11,821 Other investments including derivatives 1,896 1,126 4,878 7,900 143,641 23,231 5,605 172,477 Financial liabilities Core structural borrowings of shareholdernanced operations 3,279 275 3,554 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholdernanced operations 574 1,670 1 2,245 Borrowings attributable to with-pro ts funds 379 562 92 1,033 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 403 2,033 2,436 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 1,179 894 16,305 18,378 Derivative liabilities 974 576 1,279 2,829 Other liabilities 165 116 3,173 3,454 6,953 6,126 20,850 33,929 2011 m Not directly Fair value Cash fl ow exposed to interest interest interest rate risk rate risk rate risk Total Financial assets Deposits 790 9,439 479 10,708 Debt securities 117,988 5,788 722 124,498 Loans 6,424 3,091 199 9,714 Other investments including derivatives 1,912 1,077 4,520 7,509 127,114 19,395 5,920 152,429 Financial liabilities Core structural borrowings of shareholdernanced operations 3,362 249 3,611 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholdernanced operations 3,114 213 13 3,340 Borrowings attributable to with-pro ts funds 120 743 109 972 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 580 2,534 3,114 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 1,011 903 15,053 16,967 Derivative liabilities 1,426 615 1,013 3,054 Other liabilities 158 142 949 1,249 9,771 5,399 17,137 32,307 270 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G2: Market risk continued Liquidity analysis i Contractual maturities of fi financial liabilities The following table sets out the contractual maturities for applicable classes of financial liabilities, excluding derivative liabilities and investment contracts that are separately presented.
The financial liabilities are included in the column relating to the contractual maturities at the undiscounted cash ows including contractual interest payments due to be paid assuming conditions are consistent with those of year end.
2012 m Total Aft er 1 Aft er 5 Aft er 10 Aft er 15 carrying 1 year year to years to years to years to Over No stated value or less 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years 20 years maturity Total Financial liabilities Core structural borrowings of H13 shareholdernanced operations 3,554 140 791 603 958 1,038 691 1,753 5,974 Operational borrowings attributable to H13 shareholdernanced operations 2,245 1,708 558 2,266 Borrowings attributable to with-pro ts H13 funds 1,033 115 542 199 71 12 73 194 1,206 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 2,436 2,436 2,436 Other liabilities 3,453 945 45 5 2,458 3,453 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit-trusts and similar funds 4,345 4,345 4,345 Other creditors 2,781 2,515 23 36 73 70 406 3,123 19,847 12,204 1,959 843 1,102 1,120 1,170 4,405 22,803 2011 m Total Aft er 1 Aft er 5 Aft er 10 Aft er 15 carrying 1 year year to years to years to years to Over No stated value or less 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years 20 years maturity Total Financial liabilities Core structural borrowings of H13 shareholdernanced operations 3,611 245 624 606 840 1,243 737 1,834 6,129 Operational borrowings attributable to H13 shareholdernanced operations 3,340 2,971 394 3,365 Borrowings attributable to with-pro ts H13 funds 972 199 418 158 100 5 97 139 1,116 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 3,114 3,114 3,114 Other liabilities 1,249 842 106 5 296 1,249 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit-trusts and similar funds 3,840 3,840 3,840 Other creditors 2,544 2,268 20 27 36 45 148 2,544 18,670 13,479 1,562 796 976 1,293 982 2,269 21,357 G: Financial assets and liabilities Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 271 ii Maturity analysis of derivatives The following table provides a maturity analysis of derivative assets and liabilities: 2012 m Total Aft er 1 Aft er 3 carrying 1 year year to years to Aft er value or less 3 years 5 years 5 years Total Net derivative position 1,033 1,025 22 14 50 939 2011 m Total Aft er 1 Aft er 3 carrying 1 year year to years to Aft er value or less 3 years 5 years 5 years Total Net derivative position 601 731 18 11 31 671 The net derivative positions as shown in the table above comprise the following derivative assets and liabilities: 2012 m 2011 m Derivative assets 3,862 3,655 Derivative liabilities 2,829 3,054 Net derivative position 1,033 601 The majority of derivative assets and liabilities have been included at fair value within the one year or less column, representing the basis on which they are managed ie to manage principally asset or liability value exposures.
Contractual maturities are not considered essential for an understanding of the timing of the cash ows for these instruments and, in particular, the Group has no cash ow hedges.
The only exception is certain identi ed interest rate swaps which are fully expected to be held until maturity solely for the purposes of matching cash ows on separately held assets and liabilities.
For these instruments the undiscounted cash ows including contractual interest amounts due to be paid under the swap contract assuming conditions are consistent with those at year end are included in the column relating to the contractual maturity of the derivative.
The table below shows the maturity pro le for investment contracts on an undiscounted basis to the nearest billion.
This maturity pro le has been based on the cash ow projections of expected bene t payments as part of the determination of the value of in-force business when preparing EEV basis results.
2012 bn Total Aft er 1 Aft er 5 Aft er 10 Aft er 15 undisTotal 1 year year to years to years to years to Over counted carrying or less 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years 20 years value value Life assurance investment contracts 4 16 15 11 8 10 64 52 2011 bn Total Aft er 1 Aft er 5 Aft er 10 Aft er 15 undisTotal 1 year year to years to years to years to Over counted carrying or less 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years 20 years value value Life assurance investment contracts 3 12 13 11 9 10 58 47 272 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G2: Market risk continued Most investment contracts have options to surrender early, albeit these are often subject to surrender or other penalties.
It is therefore the case that most contracts could be said to have a contractual maturity of less than one year, but in reality the additional charges and term of the contracts means these are unlikely to be exercised in practice and the more useful information is to present information on expected payment.
The maturity pro le above excludes certain corporate unit-linked business with gross policyholder liabilities of 12 billion 2011: 11 billion which has no stated maturity but which is repayable on demand.
This table has been prepared on an undiscounted basis and accordingly the amounts shown for life assurance investment contracts differ from those disclosed on the statement of financial position.
Durations of long-term business contracts, covering insurance and investment contracts, on a discounted basis are included in section D. The vast majority of the Groups financial assets are held to back the Groups policyholder liabilities.
Although asset liability matching is an important component of managing policyholder liabilities both those classi ed as insurance and those classi ed as investments, this pro le is mainly relevant for managing market risk rather than liquidity risk.
Within each business unit this asset liability matching is performed on a portfolio by portfolio basis.
In terms of liquidity risk a large proportion of the policyholder liabilities contain discretionary surrender values or surrender charges, meaning that many of the Groups liabilities are expected to be held for the long term.
Much of the Groups investment portfolios is in marketable securities, which can therefore be converted quickly to liquid assets.
For the reasons above, an analysis of the Groups assets by contractual maturity is not considered necessary to evaluate the nature and extent of the Groups liquidity risk.
Market and other fi financial risks The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk of financial instruments before any allowance for collateral or allocation of losses to policyholders is represented by the carrying value of financial instruments on the balance sheet that have exposures to credit risk.
These assets comprise cash and cash equivalents, deposits, debt securities, loans and derivative assets, and other debtors, the carrying value of which are disclosed at the start of this note and note G3 for derivative assets.
The collateral in place in relation to derivatives is described in G4.
Notes D2a iv, D3a ii ii and D4a iii, describe the security for these loans held by the Group, as disclosed at the start of this note.
Of the total loans and receivables held, 25 million 2011: 39 million are past their due date but have not been impaired.
Of the total past due but not impaired, 18 million is less than one year past their due date 2011: 3 million.
The Group expects full recovery of these loans and receivables.
No further analysis has been provided of the element of loans and receivables that was neither past due nor impaired for the total portfolio.
This is on the grounds of immateriality of the difference between the neither past due nor impaired elements and the total portfolio.
Financial assets that would have been past due or impaired had the terms not been renegotiated amounted to 86 million 2011: 90 million.
In addition, during the year the Group took possession of 16 million 2011: 13 million of other collateral held as security, which mainly consists of assets that could be readily convertible into cash.
Further details of collateral and pledges are provided in note G4.
Currency risk As at 31 December 2012, the Group held 19 per cent 2011: 21 per cent and 7 per cent 2011: 9 per cent of its financial assets and financial liabilities respectively, in currencies, mainly US dollar and Euro, other than the functional currency of the relevant business unit.
Financial assets, of which 56 per cent 2011: 55 per cent are held by the PAC with-pro ts fund, allow the PAC with-pro ts fund to obtain exposure to foreign equity markets.
Financial liabilities, of which 28 per cent 2011: 28 per cent are held by the PAC with-pro ts fund, mainly relate to foreign currency borrowings.
The exchange risks inherent in these exposures are mitigated through the use of derivatives, mainly forward currency contracts note G3.
The amount of exchange loss recognised in the income statement in 2012, except for those arising on financial instruments measured at fair value through pro t and loss, is 213 million 2011: 1 million gain.
This constitutes 1 million loss 2011: 11 million loss on Medium Term Notes MTN liabilities and 212 million of net loss 2011: 12 million net gain, mainly arising on investments of the PAC with-pro ts fund.
The gains losses on MTN liabilities are fully offset by value movements on cross-currency swaps, which are measured at fair value through pro t and loss.
G: Financial assets and liabilities Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 273 G3: Derivatives and Hedging Derivatives The Group enters into a variety of exchange traded and over-the-counter derivative financial instruments, including futures, options, forward currency contracts and swaps such as interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, swaptions and credit default swaps.
All over-the-counter derivative transactions, with the exception of some Asia transactions, are conducted under standardised ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc master agreements and the Group has collateral agreements between the individual Group entities and relevant counterparties in place under each of these market master agreements.
The total fair value balances of derivative assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2012 were as follows: 2012 m UK US Asia insurance insurance insurance Asset Unallocated Group operations operations operations management to a segment total Derivative assets 1,349 1,546 927 38 2 3,862 Derivative liabilities 1,007 645 837 150 190 2,829 342 901 90 112 188 1,033 2011 m UK US Asia insurance insurance insurance Asset Unallocated Group operations operations operations management to a segment total Derivative assets 1,461 1,677 444 71 2 3,655 Derivative liabilities 1,298 887 480 182 207 3,054 163 790 36 111 205 601 The above derivative assets are included in other investments in the primary statements.
These derivatives are used for ef cient portfolio management to obtain cost effective and ef cient exposure to various markets in accordance with the Groups investment strategies and to manage exposure to interest rate, currency, credit and other business risks.
See also note D3 for use of derivatives by the Groups US operations.
The Group uses various interest rate derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps to reduce exposure to interest rate volatility.
The UK with-pro ts funds use derivatives for the purposes of ef cient portfolio management or reduction in investment risks.
For UK annuity business derivatives are used to assist with asset and liability cash ow matching.
Some of the Groups products, especially those sold in the US, have certain guarantee features linked to equity indexes.
A mismatch between guaranteed product liabilities and the performance of the underlying assets backing them, exposes the Group to equity index risk.
In order to mitigate this risk, the relevant business units purchase swaptions, equity options and futures to match asset performance with liabilities under equity-indexed products.
The US operations and some of the UK operations hold large amounts of interest-rate sensitive investments that contain credit risks on which a certain level of defaults is expected.
These entities have purchased some swaptions in order to manage the default risk on certain underlying assets and hence reduce the amount of regulatory capital held to support the assets.
Hedging The Group has formally assessed and documented the effectiveness of the following hedges under IAS 39.
Fair value hedges The Group has chosen to designate as a fair value hedge certain xed to oating rate swaps which hedge the fair value exposure to interest rate movements of certain of the Groups operational borrowings.
The fair value of the derivatives designated as fair value hedges above at 31 December 2012, was an asset of less than 1 million 2011: asset of 3 million.
Movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments of a net loss of 3 million 2011: net loss of 2 million and the hedged items of a net gain of 3 million 2011: net gain of 2 million are recorded in the income statement in respect of the fair value hedges above.
Net investment hedges The Group has designated perpetual subordinated capital securities totalling US$2.85 billion 2011: US$2.85 billion as a net investment hedge to hedge the currency risks related to the net investment in Jackson.
The carrying value of the subordinated capital securities was 1,746 million as at 31 December 2012 2011: 1,823 million.
The foreign exchange loss of 81 million 2011: loss of 18 million on translation of the borrowings to pounds sterling at the statement of financial position date is recognised in the translation reserve in shareholders equity.
This net investment hedge was 100 per cent effective.
Cash fl ow hedges The Group has no cash ow hedges in place.
274 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 G: Financial assets and liabilities continued G4: Derecognition and collateral Securities lending and reverse repurchase agreements The Group has entered into securities lending including repurchase agreements whereby blocks of securities are loaned to third parties, primarily major brokerage rms.
The amounts above the fair value of the loaned securities required to be held as collateral by the agreements depend on the quality of the collateral, calculated on a daily basis.
The loaned securities are not removed from the Groups consolidated statement of financial position, rather they are retained within the appropriate investment classi cation.
Collateral typically consists of cash, debt securities, equity securities and letters of credit.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had lent 3,015 million 2011: 7,843 million of securities of which 2,047 million 2011: 5,820 million was lent by the PAC with-pro ts fund and held collateral under such agreements of 3,137 million 2011: 8,160 million of which 2,138 million 2011: 6,108 million was held by the PAC with-pro ts fund.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had entered into reverse repurchase transactions under which it purchased securities and had taken on the obligation to resell the securities for the purchase price of 943 million 2011: 1,607 million, together with accrued interest.
Collateral and pledges under derivative transactions At 31 December 2012, the Group had pledged 754 million 2011: 840 million for liabilities and held collateral of 1,964 million 2011: 1,953 million in respect of over-the-counter derivative transactions.
These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to collateralised transactions including, where relevant, standard securities lending and repurchase agreement.
G5: Impairment of fi financial assets In accordance with the Groups accounting policy set out in note A3, impairment reviews were performed for available-for-sale securities and loans and receivables.
In addition, impairment reviews were undertaken for the reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities.
During the year ended 31 December 2012, impairment losses of 50 million 2011: 126 million were recognised for available-forsale securities and loans and receivables analysed as shown in the attached table.
2012 m 2011 m Available-for-sale securities held by Jackson 37 62 Loans and receivables 13 64 50 126 Relates to loans held by the UK with-profi ts fund and mortgage loans held by Jackson Impairment losses recognised on available-for-sale securities amounted to 37 million 2011: 62 million.
Of this amount, 22 per cent 2011: 34 per cent has been recorded on structured asset-backed securities, primarily due to reduced cash ow expectations on such securities that are collateralised by diversi ed pools of primarily below investment grade securities.
Of the losses related to the impairment of xed maturity securities, the top five individual corporate issuers made up 74 per cent 2011: 75 per cent, re ecting a deteriorating business outlook of the companies concerned.
The impairment losses have been recorded in investment return in the income statement.
In 2012, the Group realised gross losses on sales of available-for-sale securities of 44 million 2011: 43 million with 64 per cent 2011: 64 per cent of these losses related to the disposal of xed maturity securities of 10 2011: 10 individual issuers, which were disposed of as part of risk reduction programmes intended to limit future credit loss exposure.
Of the 44 million 2011: 43 million, 23 million 2011: 32 million relates to losses on sales of impaired and deteriorating securities.
The effect of those reasonably likely changes in the key assumptions that underpin the assessment of whether impairment has taken place depends on the factors described in note A4.
A key indicator of whether such impairment may arise in future, and the potential amounts at risk, is the pro le of gross unrealised losses for xed maturity securities accounted for on an available-for-sale basis by reference to the time periods by which the securities have been held continuously in an unrealised loss position and by reference to the maturity date of the securities concerned.
For 2012, the amount of gross unrealised losses for xed maturity securities classi ed as available-for-sale under IFRS in an unrealised loss position was 178 million 2011: 246 million.
Notes B1 and D3 provide further details on the impairment charges and unrealised losses of Jacksons available-for-sale securities.
H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 275 H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items H1: Intangible assets attributable to shareholders a Goodwill 2012 m 2011 m Cost At beginning of year 1,585 1,586 Additional consideration paid on previously acquired business 2 Exchange differences 2 1 At end of year 1,589 1,585 Aggregate impairment 120 120 Net book amount at end of year 1,469 1,465 Goodwill attributable to shareholders comprises: M&G 1,153 1,153 Other 316 312 1,469 1,465 Other represents goodwill amounts across cash generating units CGUs in Asia and US operations.
Other goodwill amounts are not individually material.
Impairment testing Goodwill does not generate cash ows independently of other groups of assets and thus is assigned to CGUs for the purposes of impairment testing.
These CGUs are based upon how management monitors the business and represent the lowest level to which goodwill can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Assessment of whether goodwill may be impaired Goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the CGUs carrying amount, including any goodwill, with its recoverable amount.
With the exception of M&G, the goodwill attributable to shareholders in the statement of financial position mainly relates to acquired life businesses.
The Company routinely compares the aggregate of net asset value and acquired goodwill on an IFRS basis of acquired life business with the value of the business as determined using the EEV methodology, as described in note D1.
Any excess of IFRS over EEV carrying value is then compared with EEV basis value of current and projected future new business to determine whether there is any indication that the goodwill in the IFRS statement of financial position may be impaired.
The assumptions underpinning the Groups EEV basis of reporting are included in the EEV basis supplementary information in this Annual Report.
276 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items continued H1: Intangible assets attributable to shareholders continued M&G The recoverable amount for the M&G CGU has been determined by calculating its value in use.
This has been calculated by aggregating the present value of future cash ows expected to be derived from the M&G operating segment based upon management projections.
The discounted cash ow valuation has been based on a three-year plan prepared by M&G, and approved by management, and cash ow projections for later years.
The value in use is particularly sensitive to a number of key assumptions as follows: i The set of economic, market and business assumptions used to derive the three-year plan.
The direct and secondary effects of recent developments, eg changes in global equity markets, are considered by management in arriving at the expectations for the financial projections for the plan: ii The assumed growth rate on forecast cash ows beyond the terminal year of the plan.
A growth rate of 2.5 per cent 2011: 2.5 per cent has been used to extrapolate beyond the plan period representing managements best estimate view of the long-term growth rate of the business after considering the future and past growth rates and external sources of data: iii The risk discount rate.
Differing discount rates have been applied in accordance with the nature of the individual component businesses.
For retail and institutional business, a risk discount rate of 12 per cent 2011: 12 per cent has been applied to post-tax cash ows.
The pre-tax risk discount rate was 15 per cent 2011: 15 per cent.
Management have determined the risk discount rate by reference to an average implied discount rate for comparable UK listed asset managers calculated by reference to risk-free rates, equity risk premiums of 5 per cent and an average beta factor for relative market risk of comparable UK listed asset managers.
A similar approach has been applied for the other component businesses of M&G: and iv That asset management contracts continue on similar terms.
Management believes that any reasonable change in the key assumptions would not cause the recoverable amount of M&G to fall below its carrying amount.
Japanese life company The aggregate goodwill impairment of 120 million at 31 December 2012 and 2011 relates to the goodwill held in relation to the Japanese life operation which was impaired in 2005. b Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets attributable to shareholders The deferred acquisition costs DAC and other intangible assets in the Group consolidated statement of financial position attributable to shareholders comprise: 2012 m 2011 m 2010 m Deferred acquisition costs related to insurance contracts as classi ed under IFRS 4 3,866 3,805 3,550 Deferred acquisition costs related to investment management contracts, including life assurance contracts classi ed as financial instruments and investment management contracts under IFRS 4 100 107 110 3,966 3,912 3,660 Present value of acquired in-force policies for insurance contracts as classi ed under IFRS 4 PVIF 64 64 70 Other intangibles 237 258 171 301 322 241 Total of deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 4,267 4,234 3,901 The 2011 and 2010 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 277 2012 m 2011 m 2010 m Deferred acquisition costs PVIF and Asset other manageintanUK US Asia ment gibles Total Total Total note i Balance at 1 January As previously reported 111 3,880 744 12 322 5,069 4,667 4,097 A5 Effect of change in accounting policy 785 50 835 766 651 Aft er eff ect of change 111 3,095 694 12 322 4,234 3,901 3,446 Additions 12 798 249 3 31 1,093 1,117 968 Acquisition of REALIC in 2012 and UOB Life Assurance Ltd in 2010 5 5 12 Amortisation to the income statement: Operating pro t 20 356 277 5 51 709 792 515 Amortisation related to short-term uctuations in investment returns 76 76 287 283 20 280 277 5 51 633 505 232 Exchange differences 144 12 6 162 2 129 Change in shadow DAC related to movement in unrealised appreciation of Jackson's securities classi ed as available-for-sale 270 270 275 410 Disposals 2 5 Dilution of Group's holdings 7 Balance at 31 December 103 3,199 654 10 301 4,267 4,234 3,901 The 2011 and 2010 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
US operations DAC Summary balances The DAC amount in respect of US insurance operations comprises amounts in respect of: 2012 m 2011 m 2010 m Variable annuity business 3,330 2,960 2,283 Other business 821 855 980 Cumulative shadow DAC for unrealised gains losses booked in other comprehensive income 952 720 434 Total DAC for US operations 3,199 3,095 2,829 The 2011 and 2010 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
278 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items continued H1: Intangible assets attributable to shareholders continued Deferred acquisition costs related to insurance and investment contracts attributable to shareholders The movement in deferred acquisition costs relating to insurance and investments contracts attributable to shareholders are as follows: 2012 m 2011 m 2010 m Insurance Investment Insurance Investment Insurance Investment contracts management contracts management contracts management note note note DAC at 1 January 3,805 105 3,550 110 3,172 107 Additions 1,048 12 982 17 710 21 Amortisation 563 17 450 20 19 18 Exchange differences 154 104 Change in shadow DAC related to movement in unrealised appreciation of Jacksons securities classi ed as available-for-sale 270 275 410 Dilution of holding in PruHealth 7 DAC at 31 December 3,866 100 3,807 107 3,550 110 The 2011 and 2010 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
Note All of the additions are through internal development.
The carrying amount of the balance comprises the following gross and accumulated amortisation amounts: 31 December 2012 m 2011 m 2010 m Gross amount 210 200 183 Accumulated amortisation 110 93 73 Net book amount 100 107 110 Present value of acquired in-force PVIF and other intangibles attributable to shareholders 2012 m 2011 m Other intangibles Other intangibles note ii note ii DistriDistribution bution PVIF rights Soft ware Total PVIF rights Soft ware Total note i note i At 1 January Cost 212 235 163 610 203 136 144 483 Accumulated amortisation 148 36 104 288 133 23 86 242 64 199 59 322 70 113 58 241 Additions including amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries 5 31 36 96 24 120 Amortisation charge 5 17 29 51 5 9 21 35 Disposals 2 2 Exchange differences 5 1 6 1 1 2 At 31 December 64 177 60 301 64 199 59 322 Comprising: Cost 217 230 193 640 200 235 163 598 Accumulated amortisation 153 53 133 339 136 36 104 276 64 177 60 301 64 199 59 322 Notes i All of the PVIF balances relate to insurance contracts and is accounted for under UK GAAP as permitted by IFRS 4.
Investment contracts have been fully amortised.
Amortisation is charged to the acquisition costs and other operating expenditure line in the income statement over the period of provision of asset management services as those profi ts emerge.
ii Other intangibles comprise distribution and soft ware rights.
Distribution rights relate to facilitation fees paid in respect of the bancassurance partnership arrangements in Asia for the bank distribution of Prudentials insurance products for a fi xed period of time.
The distribution rights amounts are amortised over the term of the distribution contracts.
Soft ware is amortised over its useful economic life, which generally represents the licence period of the soft ware acquired.
Amortisation is charged to the acquisition costs and other expenditure line in the income statement.
H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 279 H2: Intangible assets attributable to with-profi ts funds a Goodwill in respect of acquired investment subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 2012 m 2011 m At 1 January 178 166 Additions in the year 12 At 31 December 178 178 All the goodwill relates to the UK insurance operations segment.
The venture fund investments consolidated by the Group relates to investments by PAC with-pro ts fund managed by M&G.
The goodwill shown in the table above relates to these venture fund investments.
Goodwill is tested for impairment of these investments by comparing the investments carrying value including goodwill with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of the investments is determined by calculating their fair value less costs to sell.
The fair value is determined by using a discounted cash ow valuation.
The valuations are based on cash ow projections to 2016 prepared by management after considering the historical experience and future growth rates of the business.
The key assumption applied in the calculations is the risk discount rate ranging from 10 per cent to 14 per cent derived by reference to risk-free rates and an equity premium risk.
In 2012, no goodwill was deemed to be impaired following the impairment testing carried out.
b Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets Other intangible assets in the Group consolidated statement of financial position attributable to with-pro ts funds consist of: 2012 m 2011 m Deferred acquisition costs related to insurance contracts attributable to the PAC with-pro ts fund 6 6 Distribution rights attributable to with-pro ts funds of the Asia insurance operations 70 83 Computer software attributable to with-pro ts funds of the Asia insurance operations 2 78 89 Deferred acquisition costs related to insurance contracts attributable to the PAC with-profi ts fund The movement in deferred acquisition costs relating to insurance contracts attributable to the PAC with-pro ts fund is as follows: 2012 m 2011 m At 1 January 6 13 Amortisation charge 7 At 31 December 6 6 The above costs relate to non-participating business written by the PAC with-pro ts sub-fund.
No deferred acquisition costs are established for the participating business.
280 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items continued H2: Intangible assets attributable to with-profi ts funds continued Distribution rights attributable to with-profi t funds of the Asia insurance operations Distribution rights relate to facilitation fees paid in relation to the bancassurance partnership arrangements in Asia for the bank distribution of Prudentials insurance products for a xed period of time.
2012 m 2011 m At 1 January Gross amount 96 108 Accumulated amortisation 13 11 83 97 Amortisation charge 9 5 Exchange differences 4 1 Reclassi cation 10 At 31 December 70 83 Comprising: Gross amount 92 96 Accumulated amortisation 22 13 70 83 H3: Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 2012 m 2011 m Insurance contract liabilities 6,079 1,486 Claims outstanding 780 161 6,859 1,647 Comprising amounts in respect of: D2 f UK insurance operations 608 589 D3 f US insurance operations 6,076 907 D4 f Asia insurance operations 175 151 6,859 1,647 The movement on reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities is as follows: 2012 m 2011 m At 1 January 1,486 1,167 Acquisition of REALIC 4,810 Other movements in the year 55 303 Foreign exchange translation differences 162 16 At 31 December 6,079 1,486 H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 281 H4: Tax assets and liabilities Assets Of the 254 million 2011: 546 million current tax recoverable, the majority is expected to be recovered in one year or less.
Deferred tax asset 2012 m 2011 m Unrealised losses on investments 102 297 Balances relating to investment and insurance contracts 1 13 Short-term timing differences 2,097 1,513 Capital allowances 15 15 Unused deferred tax losses 99 438 Total 2,314 2,276 The deferred tax asset at 31 December 2012 and 2011 arises in the following parts of the Group: 2012 m 2011 m UK insurance operations: SAIF 1 1 PAC with-pro ts fund including PAL 113 78 Other 69 153 US insurance operations 1,889 1,392 Asia insurance operations 83 114 Other operations 159 538 Total 2,314 2,276 The increase in the deferred tax asset primarily relates to additional short-term timing differences on US insurance reserves following the REALIC acquisition partially offset by the utilisation of tax losses across the Group.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable, that is to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable pro ts from which the future reversal of the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
The taxation regimes applicable across the Group often apply separate rules to trading and capital pro ts and losses.
The distinction between temporary differences that arise from items of either a trading or capital nature may affect the recognition of deferred tax assets.
Accordingly, for the 2012 results and financial position at 31 December 2012 the possible tax bene t of approximately 158 million 31 December 2011: 158 million, which may arise from capital losses valued at approximately 0.8 billion 31 December 2011: 0.7 billion, is suf ciently uncertain that it has not been recognised.
In addition, a potential deferred tax asset of 122 million 31 December 2011: 147 million, which may arise from trading tax losses and other potential temporary differences totalling 0.5 billion 31 December 2011: 0.6 billion is suf ciently uncertain that it has not been recognised.
Of these, losses of 105 million will expire within the next seven years.
The remaining losses have no expiry date.
Until the end of 2012, for the Groups UK life insurance companies, shareholders pro ts were calculated using regulatory surplus as a starting point, with appropriate deferred tax adjustments for IFRS.
As the 2012 Finance Act had been enacted at the balance sheet date, the effects of these changes are re ected in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 but with no material impact on the Groups net assets.
282 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items continued H4: Tax assets and liabilities continued The two tables that follow provide a breakdown of the recognised deferred tax assets set out above for both the short-term timing differences and unused tax losses split by business unit.
The table also shows the period of estimated recoverability for each respective business unit.
For these and each category of deferred tax asset recognised their recoverability against forecast taxable pro ts is not signi cantly impacted by any current proposed changes to future accounting standards.
Short-term timing diff erences 2012 m Expected period of recoverability Asia 42 1 to 3 years JNL 1,800 With run-off of in-force book UK long-term business 151 1 to 10 years Other 104 1 to 10 years Total 2,097 Unused tax losses 2012 m Expected period of recoverability Asia 36 3 to 5 years UK long-term business 18 1 to 3 years Other 45 1 to 3 years Total 99 Liabilities The current tax liability decreased to 445 million 2011: 930 million re ecting the settlement of prior year balances in the UK and Asia following the agreement of tax positions.
Deferred tax liability 2012 m 2011 m 2010 m Unrealised gains on investments 1,814 1,566 1,678 Balances relating to investment and insurance contracts 432 667 801 Short-term timing differences 1,715 1,687 1,477 Capital allowances 9 9 12 Total 3,970 3,929 3,968 The 2011 and 2010 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A5.
Under IAS 12, Income Taxes, deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability settled, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or are substantively enacted at the end of the reporting periods.
The UK governments tax rate change to 23 per cent from the 24 per cent effective from 1 April 2012 has had the effect of reducing the UK with-pro ts and shareholder-backed business element of the net deferred tax balances as at 31 December 2012 by 52 million.
The tax change to 23 per cent is effective from 1 April 2013 but has been enacted at 31 December 2012.
The subsequent proposed phased rate changes to 21 per cent are expected to have the effect of reducing the UK with-pro ts and shareholder-backed business elements of the net deferred tax balances at 31 December 2012 by 52 million.
H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 283 H5: Accrued investment income and other debtors 2012 m 2011 m Accrued investment income Interest receivable 2,015 1,919 Other 783 791 Total 2,798 2,710 Other debtors Amounts due from: Policyholders 271 227 Intermediaries 27 27 Reinsurers 23 11 Other 1,040 722 Total 1,361 987 Total accrued investment income and other debtors 4,159 3,697 Of the 4,159 million 2011: 3,697 million of accrued investment income and other debtors, 538 million 2011: 162 million is expected to be settled after one year or more.
H6: Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment comprise Group occupied properties and tangible assets.
A reconciliation of the carrying amount of these items from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Group Group occupied Tangible occupied Tangible property assets Total property assets Total At 1 January Cost 262 915 1,177 197 764 961 Accumulated depreciation 29 400 429 24 383 407 Net book amount 233 515 748 173 381 554 Year ended 31 December Opening net book amount 233 515 748 173 381 554 Exchange differences 9 8 17 2 7 9 Depreciation charge 10 80 90 5 69 74 Additions 4 135 139 5 119 124 Arising on acquisitions of subsidiaries 1 1 69 99 168 Disposals and transfers 2 12 14 7 8 15 Closing net book amount 216 549 765 233 515 748 At 31 December Cost 255 999 1,254 262 915 1,177 Accumulated depreciation 39 450 489 29 400 429 Net book amount 216 549 765 233 515 748 Capital expenditure: property, plant and equipment by segment The capital expenditure of 135 million 2011: 124 million arose as follows: 80 million in UK, 24 million in US and 20 million in Asia in insurance operations with the remaining balance of 11 million arising from asset management operations and unallocated corporate expenditure 2011: 69 million in UK, 20 million in US, 21 million in Asia insurance operations and 14 million in other.
284 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items continued H7: Investment properties Investment properties principally relate to the PAC with-pro ts fund and are carried at fair value.
A reconciliation of the carrying amount of investment properties at the beginning and end of the year is set out below: 2012 m 2011 m At 1 January 10,757 11,247 Additions: Resulting from acquisitions 1,025 393 Resulting from expenditure capitalised 118 45 Disposals 695 1,439 Net loss gain from fair value adjustments 175 522 Net foreign exchange differences 53 41 Transfers to from held for sale assets 97 25 Transfers from owner occupied properties 5 At 31 December 10,880 10,757 The income statement includes the following items in respect of investment properties: 2012 m 2011 m Rental income from investment properties 559 606 Direct operating expenses including repairs and maintenance expenses arising from investment properties that generated rental income during the year 64 128 Further information on the investment property held by the UK insurance operations further information is included in note D2 a.
Investment properties of 3,845 million 2011: 3,439 million are held under finance leases.
A reconciliation between the total of future minimum lease payments at the statement of financial position date, and their present value is shown below: 2012 m 2011 m Future minimum lease payments at 31 December 988 1,071 Future finance charges on finance leases 877 944 Present value of minimum lease payments 111 127 Future minimum lease payments are due as follows: Less than 1 year 6 7 1 to 5 years 23 26 Over 5 years 959 1,038 Total 988 1,071 The present values of these minimum lease payments are: Less than 1 year 6 6 1 to 5 years 19 23 Over 5 years 86 98 Total 111 127 Contingent rent is that portion of the lease payments that is not xed in amount but is based on the future value of a factor that changes other than with the passage of time.
There was no contingent rent recognised as income or expense in 2012 and 2011.
The Groups policy is to rent investment properties to tenants through operating leases.
Minimum future rentals to be received on non-cancellable operating leases of the Groups freehold investment properties are receivable in the following periods: 2012 m 2011 m Less than 1 year 451 430 1 to 5 years 1,541 1,407 Over 5 years 3,785 3,304 Total 5,777 5,141 The total minimum future rentals to be received on non-cancellable sub-leases for the Groups investment properties held under finance leases at 31 December 2012 are 2,439 million 2011: 2,553 million.
H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 285 H8: Investments in associates and joint ventures Investments in associates The Group had two associates at 31 December 2012 31 December 2011: one that were accounted for under the equity method.
The Groups associates at 31 December 2012 are a 25 per cent interest in PruHealth Holdings Limited and a 49.99 per cent interest in PPM South Africa, following the dilution of the Groups holding in the period see note I2.
The Groups share of the pro t during the year was a pro t of 8 million full year 2011: a loss of 3 million.
The total carrying value of these associates are 113 million 2011: 70 million.
This is re ected in the Groups pro t after tax attributable to equity holders during the year.
Associates accounted for using the equity method A summary of the movements in investments in associates accounted for using the equity method in 2012 and 2011 is set out below: Share of share capital Share of Total and share retained Share of carrying premium earnings net assets Goodwill value m m m m m Balance at 31 December 2010 101 31 70 1 71 Capital injection 4 4 4 Disposals 1 1 1 Goodwill write off 1 1 Share of loss for the year after tax 3 3 3 Balance at 31 December 2011 104 34 70 70 I2 Transfer of PPMSA as an associate 39 39 39 Exchange translation and other movements 6 6 6 Share of pro t for the year after tax 10 10 10 Balance at 31 December 2012 104 9 113 113 There have been no changes recognised in the other comprehensive income of associates that would also be recognised in the other comprehensive income by the Group.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, revenues and pro t and loss of associates accounted for using the equity method at 31 December 2012 and 2011 is as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Financial position Total assets excluding goodwill 162 109 Total liabilities 49 39 Net assets 113 70 Results of operations Revenue 96 81 Pro t loss in the year 10 3 There are several minor service agreements in place between the associates and the Group.
During 2012, the aggregate amount of the transactions was 42 million 2011: 33 million and the balance due to the Group as at 31 December 2012 was 73.2 million 2011: 74.2 million.
Associates and joint ventures carried at fair value through profi t and loss In addition to the above the Group has associates that are carried at fair value through pro t and loss, as allowed under IAS 28, that comprise investments in open-ended investment companies OEICs, unit trusts, funds holding collateralised debt obligations, property unit trusts and venture capital investments of the PAC with-pro ts funds where the Group has signi cant in uence.
These investments are incorporated both in the UK and overseas, and some have year ends which are non-coterminous with that of the Group.
In these instances, the investments are recorded at fair value at 31 December 2012 based on valuations or pricing information at that speci c date.
The aggregate fair value of associates carried at fair value through pro t and loss where there are published price quotations is approximately 0.8 billion 2011: 4.8 billion at 31 December 2012.
The aggregate assets of these associates are approximately 2.2 billion 2011: 3.4 billion.
Aggregate liabilities, excluding liabilities to unit holders and shareholders for unit trusts and OEICs, are approximately 0.8 billion 2011: 1.1 billion.
Fund revenues, with revenue arising in unit trusts and OEICs deemed to constitute the investment return for these vehicles, were approximately 0.1 billion 2011: 0.3 billion and net pro t in the year, excluding unit trusts and OEICs where all investment returns accrue to unit holders or shareholders respectively, was approximately 0.1 billion 2011: pro t of 0.2 billion.
286 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items continued H8: Investments in associates and joint ventures continued Investments in joint ventures The Group owns a number of joint ventures.
Joint ventures represent activities over which the Group exercises joint control through contractual agreement with one or more parties.
The Groups signi cant joint ventures, which are accounted for using proportionate consolidation, comprise following interests: Investment % held Principal activity Country CITIC Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 50 Life assurance China CITIC-Prudential Fund Management Company Limited 49 Asset management China ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited 49 Asset management India Prudential BSN Takaful Berhad 49 General and life insurance Malaysia BOCI-Prudential Asset Management Limited 36 Asset management China Hong Kong ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 26 Life assurance India The investments noted in the table above have the same accounting year end as the Group, except for ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited and ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited.
Although these investments have reporting periods ending 31 March, 12 months of financial information up to 31 December is recorded.
Accordingly, the information covers the same period as that of the Group.
Joint ventures contributed 98 million 31 December 2011: 54 million to pro t after tax attributable to equity holders during the period.
The year-on-year movement in these contributions re ect the growth in their operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns and the increase in short-term uctuations in investment returns by these joint ventures.
Further, in June 2012, the PAC with-pro ts fund, via its venture fund holdings and as part of its investment portfolio, entered into a joint venture to acquire control of Veolia Water RegCo now renamed Af nity Water, the UK regulated water business of Veolia Environnement S. A.
This joint venture investment is carried at fair value through pro t and loss in the Groups financial statements, as allowed under IAS 28.
The results of this operation are re ected in the movement in the unallocated surplus of the PAC with-pro ts fund and therefore do not affect shareholders results.
The summarised financial data for the Groups share of investments in joint ventures is as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Financial position Current assets 442 706 Non-current assets 3,504 2,757 Total assets 3,946 3,463 Current liabilities 375 301 Non-current liabilities 3,220 2,799 Total liabilities 3,595 3,100 Net equity 351 363 2012 m 2011 m Results of operations Revenue 1,040 1,056 Expenses 942 1,002 Net pro t 98 54 The joint ventures have no signi cant contingent liabilities or capital commitments to which the Group is exposed nor does the Group have any signi cant contingent liabilities or capital commitments in relation to its interest in the joint ventures.
H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 287 H9: Properties held for sale Investment properties are classi ed as held for sale when contracts have been exchanged but the sale has not been completed at the period end.
At 31 December 2012 the value of assets held for sale was 98 million 2011: 3 million.
Gains on disposal of held for sale assets are recorded in investment return within the income statement.
H10: Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other short-term highly liquid investments with less than 90 days maturity from the date of acquisition.
Cash and cash equivalents included in the cash ow statement comprise the following statement of financial position amounts: 2012 m 2011 m Cash 4,884 6,338 Cash equivalents 1,500 919 Total cash and cash equivalents 6,384 7,257 Cash and cash equivalents held centrally are considered to be available for general use by the Group.
These funds amount to 482 million and 309 million at 31 December 2012 and 2011, respectively.
The remaining funds are considered not to be available for general use by the Group, and include funds held for the bene t of policyholders.
H11: Shareholders equity: share capital, share premium and reserves A summary of the ordinary shares in issue is set out below: Share capital and share premium Number of ordinary Share Share shares capital premium m m Issued shares of 5p each fully paid: At 1 January 2011 2,545,594,506 127 1,856 Shares issued under share option schemes 2,444,824 17 At 31 December 2011 2,548,039,330 127 1,873 Shares issued under share option schemes 9,203,022 1 16 At 31 December 2012 2,557,242,352 128 1,889 Amounts recorded in share capital represent the nominal value of the shares issued.
The difference between the proceeds received on issue of shares, net of issue costs, and the nominal value of shares issued is credited to the share premium account.
At 31 December 2012, there were options outstanding under Save As You Earn schemes to subscribe for shares as follows: Share price range Number of shares Exercisable to subscribe for from to by year 31 December 2012 9,396,810 288p 629p 2018 31 December 2011 13,329,709 288p 572p 2017 288 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items continued H11: Shareholders equity: share capital, share premium and reserves continued Transactions by Prudential plc and its subsidiaries in Prudential plc shares The Group buys and sells Prudential plc own shares either in relation to its employee share schemes or via transactions undertaken by authorised investment funds that the Group is deemed to control.
Further information about these transactions is set out below.
The cost of own shares of 97 million as at 31 December 2012 2011: 109 million is deducted from retained earnings.
The Company has established trusts to facilitate the delivery of shares under employee incentive plans and savings-related share option schemes.
At 31 December 2012, 8.0 million 2011: 8.1 million Prudential plc shares with a market value of 69 million 2011: 52 million were held in such trusts.
Of this total, 8.0 million 2011: 8.0 million shares were held in trusts under employee incentive plans.
In 2012, the Company purchased the following number of shares in respect of employee incentive plans.
Number of shares purchased Cost in millions m 2012 9.4 76.1 2011 8.2 54.7 The maximum number of shares held in 2012 was 8.0 million which was in December 2012.
Of the total shares held in trust no shares were held by a qualifying employee share ownership trust 2011: 0.1 million.
Some of these funds hold shares in Prudential plc.
The total number of shares held by these funds at 31 December 2012 was 4.5 million 2011: 8.6 million and the cost of acquiring these shares of 27 million 2011: 52 million is included in the cost of own shares.
The market value of these shares as at 31 December 2012 was 39 million 2011: 54 million.
During 2012, these funds made net disposals of 4,143,340 Prudential shares 2011: net disposals of 1,171,635 for a net decrease of 25.1 million to book cost 2011: net increase of 4.8 million.
All share transactions were made on an exchange other than the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong.
Other than set out above the Group did not purchase, sell or redeem any Prudential plc listed securities during 2012 or 2011.
Reserves The translation reserve of 66 million 2011: 282 million represents cumulative foreign exchange translation differences taken directly to equity in accordance with IFRS, net of related tax.
In accordance with IFRS 1, cumulative translation differences are deemed to be zero at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
The available-for-sale reserve represents gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale securities of Jackson, net of the related change in amortisation of deferred income and acquisition costs and of the related tax.
H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 289 H12: Insurance contract liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profi ts funds Movement in year Unallocated Insurance surplus of contract with-profi ts liabilities funds m m At 1 January 2011 171,291 10,253 Income and expense included in the income statement 8,748 1,025 Foreign exchange translation differences 324 13 At 1 January 2012 180,363 9,215 Income and expense included in the income statement 32,760 1,381 Foreign exchange translation differences 4,539 7 At 31 December 2012 208,584 10,589 Notes B5, D2b, D3b and D4b provide further analysis of the movement in the year of the Groups policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of the with-pro ts funds.
H13: Borrowings Core structural borrowings of shareholder-fi nanced operations 2012 m 2011 m Innovative Lower Tier 1 Tier 2 Senior Total Total Central operations Subordinated debt: note i 20m Medium Term Subordinated Notes 2023 16 16 17 435m 6.125% Subordinated Notes 2031 429 429 428 400m 11.375% Subordinated Notes 2039 386 386 384 US$1,000m 6.5% Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities 615 615 644 US$250m 6.75% Perpetual Subordinated Capital note ii Securities 154 154 161 US$300m 6.5% Perpetual Subordinated Capital note ii Securities 185 185 193 US$750m 11.75% Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities 458 458 477 US$550m 7.75% Perpetual Subordinated Capital note ii Securities 334 334 348 1,746 831 2,577 2,652 Senior debt: 300m 6.875% Bonds 2023 300 300 300 250m 5.875% Bonds 2029 249 249 249 549 549 549 Total central operations 1,746 831 549 3,126 3,201 note iii 275m bank loan 275 275 250 note iv US$250m 8.15% Surplus Notes 2027 153 153 160 notes v, vi Total 1,746 984 824 3,554 3,611 These debt classifi cations are consistent with the treatment of capital for regulatory purposes, as defi ned in the FSA handbook.
In January 2011, the Company issued US$550 million 7.75 per cent Tier 1 subordinated debt, primarily to retail investors.
The proceeds, net of costs, were US$539 million 340 million and were used to fi finance the repayments of the 500 million Tier 2 subordinated debt in December 2011.
The Group has designated US$2.85 billion 2011: US$2.85 billion of its Tier 1 subordinated debt as a net investment hedge under IAS 39 to hedge the currency risks related to the net investment in Jackson.
The senior debt ranks above subordinated debt in the event of liquidation.
290 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items continued H13: Borrowings continued Notes i The 20 million borrowings were issued at 20-year Euro Constant Maturity Swap capped at 6.5 per cent.
These have been swapped into borrowings of 14 million with interest payable at three month LIBOR plus 1.2 per cent.
ii The US$250 million 6.75 per cent borrowings, the US$300 million 6.5 per cent borrowings and the US$550 million 7.75 per cent borrowings can be converted, in whole or in part, at the Companys option and subject to certain conditions, on any interest payment date, into one or more series of Prudential preference shares.
iii The PruCap bank loan was increased from 250 million to 275 million on 20 December 2012.
The loan has been made in two tranches: a 160 million loan maturing in June 2014, currently drawn at a cost of 12 month LIBOR plus 0.6 per cent and a 115 million loan maturing on 20 December 2017 and currently drawn at a cost of 12 month LIBOR plus 0.79 per cent.
iv The Jackson borrowings are unsecured and subordinated to all present and future indebtedness, policy claims and other creditor claims of Jackson.
v Maturity analysis The following table sets out the contractual maturity analysis of the Groups core structural borrowings: 2012 m 2011 m Less than 1 year 115 115 1 to 2 years 160 2 to 3 years 135 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years Over 5 years 3,279 3,361 Total 3,554 3,611 vi Management analyses the net core structural borrowings position as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Total core structural borrowings as above 3,554 3,611 Less: Holding company cash and short-term investments recorded within the consolidated statement of financial position 1,380 1,200 Net core structural borrowings of shareholdernanced operations 2,174 2,411 vii In January 2013, the Company issued core structural borrowings of US$700 million Tier 1 perpetual subordinated capital securities.
The proceeds, net of costs, were US$689 million.
Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-fi nanced operations 2012 m 2011 m Borrowings in respect of short-term fi xed income securities programmes Commercial paper 1,535 2,706 note vi Medium-Term Notes 2013 250 250 Medium-Term Notes 2015 299 2,084 2,956 Borrowings of US operations note i Investment subsidiaries non-recourse 19 20 notes i, ii Piedmont and CDO funds non-recourse 1 1 20 21 Other borrowings Bank loans and overdrafts 1 13 Obligations under finance leases 1 1 note iii Other borrowings 139 349 141 363 Total 2,245 3,340 Notes i In all instances the holders of the debt instruments issued by these subsidiaries and funds do not have recourse beyond the assets of those subsidiaries and funds.
ii Piedmont is an investment trust investing in certain asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities in the US.
These borrowings pertain to debt instruments issued to external parties.
iii Other borrowings mainly include amounts whose repayment to the lender is contingent upon future surplus emerging from certain contracts specifi ed under the arrangement.
If insuffi cient surplus emerges on those contracts, there is no recourse to other assets of the Group and the liability is not payable to the degree of shortfall.
The Group has chosen to designate as a fair value hedge under IAS 39 certain fi xed to fl oating rate swaps which hedge the fair value exposures to interest rate movements of these borrowings.
In addition, other borrowings include senior debt issued through the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis FHLB, secured by collateral posted with the FHLB by Jackson.
iv In addition to the debt listed above, 200 million Floating Rate Notes were issued by Prudential plc in October 2012 which will mature in April 2013.
These Notes have been wholly subscribed by a Group subsidiary and accordingly have been eliminated on consolidation in the Group fi financial statements.
These notes were originally issued in October 2008 and have been reissued upon their maturity.
H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 291 v Maturity analysis The following table sets out the contractual maturity analysis of the Groups operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-fi nanced operations: 2012 m 2011 m Less than 1 year 1,920 3,169 1 to 2 years 6 140 2 to 3 years 309 10 3 to 4 years 9 10 4 to 5 years 1 11 Over 5 years Total 2,245 3,340 vi In January 2013 the Company repaid on maturity, 250 million Medium-Term Notes included within borrowings in respect of short-term fi xed income securities in the table above.
Borrowings attributable to with-profi ts operations 2012 m 2011 m note i Non-recourse borrowings of consolidated investment funds 823 747 note ii 100m 8.5% undated subordinated guaranteed bonds of Scottish Amicable Finance plc 100 100 Other borrowings predominantly obligations under finance leases 110 125 note iii Total 1,033 972 Notes i In all instances the holders of the debt instruments issued by these funds do not have recourse beyond the assets of those funds.
ii The interests of the holders of the bonds issued by Scottish Amicable Finance plc, a subsidiary of the Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund, are subordinate to the entitlements of the policyholders of that fund.
iii Maturity analysis The following table sets out the contractual maturity analysis of the Groups borrowings attributable to with-profi ts operations: 2012 m 2011 m Less than 1 year 288 297 1 to 2 years 82 75 2 to 3 years 124 30 3 to 4 years 46 110 4 to 5 years 61 31 Over 5 years 432 429 Total 1,033 972 H14: Provisions and contingencies Provisions 2012 m 2011 m I3 Provision in respect of fide ned bene t pension schemes: Surplus fide cit gross of deferred tax, based on scheme assets held, including investments in Prudential insurance policies: Attributable to PAC with-pro ts fund 37 41 Attributable to shareholdernanced operations 1 23 36 64 Add back investments in Prudential insurance policies 169 165 Provision after elimination of investments in Prudential insurance policies and matching policyholder liabilities from Group statement of financial position 205 229 Other provisions see below 396 300 Total provisions 601 529 292 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items continued H14: Provisions and contingencies continued Analysis of other provisions: Note 2012 m 2011 m At 1 January I3 300 282 Charged to income statement: Additional provisions 237 144 Unused amounts released 12 29 Used during the year 124 97 Exchange differences 5 At 31 December 396 300 Comprising: Legal provisions 20 14 Restructuring provisions 27 23 Other provisions 349 263 Total 396 300 Other provisions The movement in other provisions is shown in the table below: 2012 m 2011 m Legal Restructuring Other Legal Restructuring Other provisions provisions provisions provisions provisions provisions note i note ii note iii note i note ii note iii At 1 January 14 23 263 20 26 236 Charged to income statement: Additional provisions 10 14 213 5 139 Unused amounts released 1 4 7 5 24 Used during the year 2 6 116 6 3 88 Exchange differences 1 4 Total at 31 December 20 27 349 14 23 263 Notes i Total legal provisions at 31 December 2012 of 20 million related to Jackson.
Jackson has been named in civil proceedings, which appear to be substantially similar to other class action litigation brought against many life insurers in the US, alleging misconduct in the sale of insurance products.
Of the 20 million legal provision as at 31 December 2012, 18 million has been established to cover this potential litigation and is expected to be utilised over the next fi five years.
ii Restructuring provisions primarily relate to restructuring activities of UK insurance operations.
The provisions pertain to property liabilities resulting from the closure of regional sales centres and branches and staff terminations and other transformation costs to enable streamlining of operations.
iii Other provisions comprise staff benefi ts provisions of 286 million, provisions for onerous contracts of 61 million and regulatory and other provisions of 2 million.
Staff benefi ts are generally expected to be paid out within the next three years.
The provision balance is expected to be paid out within the next five years.
Contingencies and related obligations In addition to the legal proceedings relating to Jackson mentioned under the legal provisions section above, the Group is involved in other litigation and regulatory issues.
Whilst the outcome of such litigation and regulatory issues cannot be predicted with certainty, the Company believes that their ultimate outcome will not have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition, results of operations, or cash ows.
Pension mis-selling review The pensions review by the UK insurance regulator of past sales of personal pension policies required all UK life insurance companies to review their cases of potential mis-selling and record a provision for the estimated costs.
The Group met the requirement of the FSA to issue offers to all cases by 30 June 2002.
At 31 December 2012 the pension mis-selling provision was 306 million 31 December 2011: 362 million.
The pension mis-selling provision is included within the liabilities in respect of investment contracts with discretionary participation features under IFRS 4.
The pension mis-selling provision at 31 December 2012 of 306 million is stochastically determined on a discounted basis.
The average discount rate implied in the movement in the year is 2.3 per cent 2011: 2.6 per cent.
The directors believe that, based on current information, the provision, together with future investment return on the assets backing the provision, will be adequate to cover the costs of pension mis-selling including administration costs.
Such provision represents the best estimate of probable costs and expenses.
However, there can be no assurance that the current provision level will not need to be increased.
H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 293 The costs associated with the pension mis-selling review have been met from the inherited estate see below.
Accordingly, these costs have not been charged to the asset shares used in the determination of policyholder bonus rates.
Hence policyholders pay-out values have been unaffected by pension mis-selling.
In 1998, Prudential stated that deducting mis-selling costs from the inherited estate would not impact its bonus or investment policy and it gave an assurance that if this unlikely event were to occur, it would make available support to the fund from shareholder resources for as long as the situation continued, so as to ensure that policyholders were not disadvantaged.
The assurance was designed to protect both existing policyholders at the date it was announced, and policyholders who subsequently purchased policies while the pension mis-selling review was continuing.
This review was completed on 30 June 2002.
The assurance will continue to apply to any policy in force at 31 December 2003, both for premiums paid before 1 January 2004, and for subsequent regular premiums including future xed, retail prices index or salary related increases and Department for Work and Pensions rebate business.
The assurance has not applied to new business since 1 January 2004.
New business in this context consists of new policies, new members to existing pension schemes plus regular and single premium top-ups, transfers and switches to existing arrangements.
The maximum amount of capital support available under the terms of the assurance will reduce over time.
The bonus and investment policy for each type of with-pro ts policy is the same irrespective of whether or not the assurance applies and this is expected to continue for the foreseeable future.
Hence removal of the assurance for new business has had no impact on policyholder returns.
Guaranteed annuities Prudential Assurance used to sell guaranteed annuity products in the UK and at 31 December 2012 held a provision of 47 million 2011: 90 million within the main with-pro ts fund within policyholder liabilities to honour guarantees on these products.
The Groups main exposure to guaranteed annuities in the UK is through SAIF and at 31 December 2012 a provision of 371 million 2011: 370 million was held in SAIF to honour the guarantees.
As SAIF is a separate sub-fund of the Prudential Assurance long-term business fund, wholly attributable to the policyholders of the fund, the movement in this provision has no impact on shareholders.
Other matters Inherited estate of the PAC long-term fund The assets of the with-pro ts sub-fund WPSF within the long-term insurance fund of The Prudential Assurance Company Limited PAC comprise the amounts that it expects to pay out to meet its obligations to existing policyholders and an additional amount used as working capital.
The amount payable over time to policyholders from the WPSF is equal to the policyholders accumulated asset shares plus any additional payments that may be required by way of smoothing or to meet guarantees.
The balance of the assets of the WPSF is called the inherited estate and has accumulated over many years from various sources.
The inherited estate, as working capital, enables PAC to support with-pro ts business by providing the bene ts associated with smoothing and guarantees, by providing investment exibility for the funds assets, by meeting the regulatory capital requirements that demonstrate solvency and by absorbing the costs of certain signi cant events or fundamental changes in its long-term business without affecting the bonus and investment policies.
The size of the inherited estate uctuates from year to year depending on the investment return and the extent to which it has been required to meet smoothing costs, guarantees and other events.
Support for long-term business funds by shareholders funds As a proprietary insurance company, PAC is liable to meet its obligations to policyholders even if the assets of the long-term funds are insuf cient to do so.
The assets, represented by the unallocated surplus of with-pro ts funds, in excess of amounts expected to be paid for future terminal bonuses and related shareholder transfers the excess assets in the long-term funds could be materially depleted over time by, for example, a signi cant or sustained equity market downturn, costs of signi cant fundamental strategic change or a material increase in the pension mis-selling provision.
In the unlikely circumstance that the depletion of the excess assets within the long-term fund was such that the Groups ability to satisfy policyholders reasonable expectations was adversely affected, it might become necessary to restrict the annual distribution to shareholders or to contribute shareholders funds to the long-term funds to provide financial support.
In 1997, the business of Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society SALAS, a mutual society, was transferred to PAC.
In effecting the transfer, a separate sub-fund, Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF, was established within PACs long-term business fund.
This sub-fund contains all the with-pro ts business and all other pension business that was transferred.
No new business has been or will be written in the sub-fund and the sub-fund is managed to ensure that all the invested assets are distributed to SAIF policyholders over the lifetime of SAIF policies.
With the exception of certain amounts in respect of the unitised with-pro ts life business, all future earnings arising in SAIF are retained for SAIF policyholders.
Any excess fide ciency of revenue over expense within SAIF during a period is attributable to the policyholders of the fund.
Shareholders have no interest in the pro ts of SAIF but are entitled to the asset management fees paid on this business.
SAIF with-pro ts policies contain minimum levels of guaranteed bene t to policyholders.
In addition, as mentioned earlier in this note, certain pensions products have guaranteed annuity rates at retirement.
Should the assets of SAIF be inadequate to meet the guaranteed bene t obligations of the policyholders of SAIF, the PAC long-term fund would be liable to cover any such fide ciency in the first instance.
294 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 H: Other information on statement of fi financial position items continued H14: Provisions and contingencies continued Unclaimed property provision Jackson has received regulatory enquiries on an industry-wide matter relating to claims settlement practices and compliance with unclaimed property laws.
Concurrently, some regulators and state legislatures have required and others are considering proposals that would require life insurance companies to take additional steps to identify unreported deceased policy and contract holders.
Additionally, numerous states are contracting with independent rms to perform speci c unclaimed property audits or targeted market conduct examinations covering claims settlement practices and procedures for escheating unclaimed property.
One such rm has been contracted by treasury departments of 26 states to perform an examination of the Jacksons practices for handling unclaimed property.
Any regulatory audits, related examination activity and internal reviews may result in additional payments to bene ciaries, escheatment of funds deemed abandoned under state laws, administrative penalties and changes in the Jacksons procedures for the identi cation of unreported claims and handling of escheatable property.
In 2011, Jackson initiated a project to compare its entire policy master le to vendors databases of known deaths and accrued a 16 million provision for potential claims at 31 December 2011.
In 2012, Jackson recognised a charge of 18 million, net of policy reserves released upon death, as a result of the project.
At 31 December 2012, based on its current analysis, Jackson has accrued 17 million for estimated remaining claims that have not yet been positively identi ed.
Guarantees and commitments Guarantee funds in both the UK and the US provide for payments to be made to policyholders on behalf of insolvent life insurance companies.
These guarantee funds are nanced by payments assessed on solvent insurance companies based on location, volume and types of business.
The Group estimated its reserve for future guarantee fund assessments for Jackson, included within other liabilities, to be 31 million at 31 December 2012 2011: 17 million.
Similar assessments for the UK businesses were not signi cant.
The directors believe that the reserve is adequate for all anticipated payments for known insolvencies.
At 31 December 2012, Jackson has unfunded commitments of 325 million 2011: 341 million related to its investments in limited partnerships and of 86 million 2011: 77 million related to commercial mortgage loans.
These commitments were entered into in the normal course of business and the directors do not expect a material adverse impact on the operations to arise from them.
Jackson owns debt instruments issued by securitisation trusts managed by PPM America.
At 31 December 2012, the support provided by certain forbearance agreements Jackson entered into with the counterparty to certain of these trusts could potentially expose Jackson to maximum losses of 31 million 2011: 71 million, if circumstances allowed the forbearance period to cease.
Jackson believes that, so long as the forbearance period continues, the risk of loss under the agreements is remote.
The Group has provided other guarantees and commitments to third-parties entered into in the normal course of business but the Company does not consider that the amounts involved are signi cant.
H15: Other liabilities 2012 m 2011 m Creditors arising from direct insurance and reinsurance operations 1,134 970 Interest payable 62 67 Other items 2,258 212 Total 3,454 1,249 Of the 2,258 million other items as at 31 December 2012, 2,021 million related to liabilities for funds withheld under reinsurance arrangement of the Groups US operations from the purchase of REALIC, as discussed in note I1.
I: Other notes Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 295 I: Other notes I1: Acquisition of subsidiaries a Acquisition of Reassure America Life Insurance Company REALIC On 4 September 2012, the Group through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Jackson National Life Insurance Company JNLI completed the acquisition of 100 per cent issued share capital of SRLC America Holding Corp. SRLC, and its primary operating subsidiary, Reassure America Life Insurance Company REALIC.
The purchase consideration which remains subject to final agreement under the terms of the transaction with Swiss Re, is 370 million US$587 million.
The acquisition increases the scale of the Groups life business in the US, helping Jackson to diversify earnings by increasing the amount of income from underwriting activities thereby enhancing the quality of earnings in a capital ef cient manner.
Immediately prior to the acquisition, SRLC entered into a reinsurance arrangement with Swiss Re, the former ultimate parent company facilitating Swiss Re to retain a portion of the REALIC business.
As collateral for this reinsurance arrangement, REALIC holds 2.1 billion of policy loans, bonds and short-term investments, which are offset by a funds withheld liability.
REALIC was a US-based insurance company whose business model was to acquire, through purchase or reinsurance, closed blocks of insurance business, primarily life assurance risks.
REALIC did not write new business.
The purchase consideration paid is equivalent to the fair value of the identi able acquired assets and liabilities assumed and accordingly no goodwill is recognised under IFRS on the date of completion of the acquisition.
In addition to the purchase consideration, the Group incurred 9 million of acquisition related costs that have been recognised as an expense during the year, in the consolidated income statement.
The provisional fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities are shown in the table below.
Fair value recognised at acquisition date m Identifi able assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Acquired value of in-force business 5 Other non-investment and non-cash assets: Reinsurers' share of insurance contract liabilities 5,444 Deferred tax 390 Current tax recoverable 44 Accrued investment income 58 Other debtors 38 Investments of long-term business and other operations: Loans 2,204 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 69 Debt securities 7,177 Cash and cash equivalents 147 Total identifi able assets 15,576 Identifi able liabilities Policyholder liabilities: Insurance contract liabilities 12,912 Other non-insurance liabilities 2,294 Total identifi able liabilities 15,206 Net identifi able assets acquired and liabilities assumed 370 Purchase consideration 370 296 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 I: Other notes continued I1: Acquisition of subsidiaries continued At the date the financial statement were approved, the fair value of the identi able acquired assets and liabilities and the consideration were subject to nalisation.
In accordance with accounting guidance for business combinations, the Company will continue to review the balance sheet and record required adjustments, for up to a 12 month period following the acquisition close date, in order to re ect updated information on certain accruals, related expenses, or other potential valuation adjustments, if further information becomes available about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date.
Any measurement period adjustments determined to be material will be applied retrospectively to the acquisition date in the Companys consolidated financial statements and depending on the nature of the adjustment, the Companys results subsequent to the acquisition period could be affected.
Reserves were initially valued consistent with existing IFRS guidance.
Accordingly, as for the Groups measurement of Jacksons insurance assets and liabilities, under IFRS 4, a grandfathered US GAAP basis has been applied.
For instance the traditional products were valued using standard modeling techniques with assumptions updated to match current interest rate environment or be consistent with Jacksons assumptions where appropriate.
Base reserves on interest sensitive products were set equal to the account value and the reserves accounted for under FASB ASC Subtopic 944-80 Financial Services Insurance Separate Accounts formerly SOP 03-1 were adjusted to re ect Jacksons assumptions where appropriate.
In addition, provision has been made for the effects of fair valuing the acquired policyholder liabilities and value of in force business in accordance with IFRS 3.
Included within the identi able assets as shown above are loans and other debtors acquired with fair values of 2,204 million and 38 million, respectively.
These values represent the gross contractual amounts all of which are expected to be collected.
The majority of the loans of 2,204 million were held to back liabilities for funds withheld under reinsurance arrangements as described above.
The consolidated statement of cash ows contains a 224 million net cash out ow in respect of this acquisition representing cash consideration of 371 million based on the preliminary purchase price of 417 million with a deferred consideration of 46 million less cash and cash equivalents acquired of 147 million.
Impact of acquisition on the results of the Group Actual m Estimated m Post acquisition period from 4 Sept to Full Year 31 Dec 2012 2012 note i Revenue 184 695 Operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns 67 Short-term uctuations in investment returns 13 note ii Amortisation of acquisition accounting on the purchase of REALIC 19 Pro t before tax 61 123 Notes i Estimation of the REALIC business contribution to the Groups consolidated revenue and profi t before tax for the year if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2012.
In determining these amounts, it has been assumed that the fair value adjustments which arose on the date of acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2012. ii The profi t of 61 million for the period has been determined aft er a charge of 19 million for amortisation of acquisition accounting adjustments.
This charge refl ects the net eff ect of: a T he diff erence between the yield on the acquired debt securities excluding those held to back funds withheld for reinsurance contracts determined by reference to their market value at acquisition as required by the IFRS 3 purchase GAAP purposes and the book yield on a historic GAAP basis: b Amortisation of the fair value adjustments on policyholder liabilities: and c Amortisation of the acquired value of in-force business.
This charge has been shown separately within Groups supplementary analysis of profi t, as explained in note B1.
b Acquisition of Thanachart Life Assurance Company Limited On 5 November 2012, Prudential plc, through its subsidiary Prudential Life Assurance Thailand Public Company Limited Prudential Thailand entered into an agreement to acquire 100 per cent of Thanachart Life Assurance Company Limited Thanachart Life, a wholly-owned life insurance subsidiary of Thanachart Bank Public Company limited Thanachart Bank.
The consideration for Thanachart Life is THB 17.5 billion 352 million at the year end exchange rate settled in cash on completion, with a further payment of THB 0.5 billion 10 million payable 12 months after completion, subject to a post-completion adjustment to re ect the net asset value as at the completion date.
The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to close in the first half of 2013.
Upon completion of the transaction, Thanachart Life will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Thailand.
As part of the deal, Prudential Thailand and Thanachart Bank have entered into an agreement to establish an exclusive 15-year partnership to develop jointly their bancassurance business in Thailand.
This transaction builds on Prudentials strategy of focusing on the highly attractive markets of South-east Asia and is in line with the Groups multichannel distribution strategy.
I: Other notes Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 297 c PAC with-profi ts funds acquisitions 2012: The PAC with-pro ts fund, via its venture fund holdings and as part of its investment portfolio, has made an acquisition of a joint venture, see note H8.
There were no acquisitions of subsidiaries made during the year.
2011: The PAC with-pro ts fund, via its venture fund holdings and as part of its investment portfolio, made acquisitions during the period.
These were acquisitions for a 100 per cent interest of Earth & Wind Energias Renovables SL, a company which invests in solar panel parks, in March 2011 and a 100 per cent interest of Alticom Holdings BV, a company investing in telecommunication towers, in June 2011.
The Earth & Wind portfolio of solar panel parks was further expanded with the acquisition of a 100 per cent interest in Promociones Fotovoltaicas Betula SL, Promociones Fotovoltaicas Castanea SL, Promociones Fotovoltaicas Corylus SL and Promociones Fotovoltaicas Fagus SL in July 2011 and a 50 per cent controlling interest in Sarinena Solar SL in October 2011.
As these transactions are within the with-pro ts fund, they have no impact on shareholders pro t or equity for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The impact on the Groups consolidated revenue, including investment returns, is not material.
Had the acquisitions been effected at 1 January 2011, the revenue and pro t of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011 would not have been materially different.
A summary of the consideration, goodwill and net assets acquired relating to these four acquisitions is provided in the table below: 2011 Total m Cash consideration paid 67 Net assets acquired: Property, plant and equipment 190 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 16 Cash and cash equivalents 14 Borrowings attributable to with-pro ts funds 114 Derivative liabilities 2 Other non-insurance liabilities 49 Fair value of net assets acquired 55 Total goodwill arising on acquisition attributable to the with-profi ts fund 12 I2: Changes to Groups holdings PPM South Africa On 22 February 2012, M&G completed transactions to i exchange bonus share rights for equity holdings with the employees of PPM South Africa and ii the sale of a 10 per cent holding in the majority of the business to Thesele Group, a minority shareholder, for cash.
Following these transactions M&Gs majority holding in the business reduced from 75 per cent to 49.99 per cent.
Under IFRS requirements, the divestment is accounted for as the disposal of the 75 per cent holding and an acquisition of a 49.99 per cent holding at fair value resulting in a reclassi cation of PPM South Africa from a subsidiary to an associate.
As a consequence of the IFRS application, the transactions gave rise to a gain on dilution of 42 million.
This amount is shown separately and in the Groups 2012 supplementary analysis of pro t excluded from the Groups IFRS operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns.
The net cash out ow arising from this change to the Groups holdings, as shown in the consolidated statement of cash ows, of 23 million, comprised the net effect of cash and cash equivalents no longer consolidated and the cash proceeds received.
298 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 I: Other notes continued I3: Staff and pension plans a Staff and employment costs The average number of staff employed by the Group during the year was: 2012 2011 Business operations: Asia operations 18,584 17,001 US operations 4,000 3,785 UK operations 5,035 4,628 Total 27,619 25,414 The costs of employment were: 2012 m 2011 m 2010 m Business operations: Wages and salaries 1,204 1,101 1,052 Social security costs 85 75 69 Other pension costs: fide ned bene t schemes : fide ned bene t schemes PSPS 17 22 27 fide ned bene t schemes Other schemes 21 34 31 fide ned contribution schemes: fide ned contribution schemes Domestic 12 12 11 fide ned contribution schemes Overseas 35 29 26 Pension actuarial and other gains losses charged to income statement 145 37 26 60 8 121 Total 1,229 1,168 1,242 The derivation of these amounts is shown in note b i 4 i.
Consistent with the derecognition of the Companys interest in the underlying IAS 19 surplus of Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS as described in note b i 1 below, the other pension costs for PSPS represents the cash cost of contributions for ongoing service of active members and the unwind of discount on the opening provision for defi cit funding for PSPS.
b Pension plans i Defi ned benefi t plans 1 Summary The Group asset liability in respect of fide ned bene t pension schemes is as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Other PSPS schemes Total Total note 4 i Underlying economic surplus 1,174 36 1,138 1,543 Less: unrecognised surplus and adjustment for obligation under IFRIC 14 note 4 i for fide cit funding 2011 only 1,010 1,010 1,607 Economic surplus fide cit including investment in Prudential insurance note 4 i policies 164 36 128 64 Attributable to: PAC with-pro ts fund 115 37 78 41 Shareholder-backed operations 49 1 50 23 Consolidation adjustment against policyholder liabilities for investment in Prudential insurance policies 169 169 165 IAS 19 pension asset liability on the Group statement of financial position 164 205 41 229 At 31 December 2012, the PSPS pension asset of 164 million and the other schemes pension liabilities of 205 million were included within Other debtors and Provisions respectively on the consolidated statement of fi financial position.
The comparative liabilities of 229 million as at 31 December 2011 were included within Provisions.
I: Other notes Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 299 The Groups businesses operate a number of pension schemes.
The speci c features of these plans vary in accordance with the regulations of the country in which the employees are located, although they are, in general, funded by the Group and based either on a cash balance formula or on years of service and salary earned in the last year or years of employment.
The largest fide ned bene t scheme is the principal UK scheme, namely the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS, which PSPS accounts for 86 per cent 2011: 86 per cent of the underlying scheme liabilities of the Group fide ned bene t schemes.
The Group also operates two smaller fide ned bene t schemes for UK employees in respect of Scottish Amicable and M&G.
For all three schemes, the projected unit method was used for the most recent full actuarial valuations.
There is also a small fide ned bene t scheme in Taiwan with a negligible fide cit.
Triennial actuarial valuations fide ned bene t schemes in the UK are generally required to be subject to full actuarial valuation every three years in order to assess the appropriate level of funding for schemes in relation to their commitments.
These valuations include assessments of the likely rate of return on the assets held within the separate trustee administered funds.
The last completed actuarial valuation of PSPS was as at 5 April 2011 by CG Singer, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, of Towers Watson Limited.
This valuation was nalised in the first half of 2012 and demonstrated the scheme to be 111 per cent funded by reference to the Scheme Solvency Target that forms the basis of the schemes funding objective.
As a result of this valuation, future contributions into the scheme have been reduced to the minimum level of contributions required under the scheme rules effective from July 2012.
Excluding expenses, the contributions fell to approximately 6 million per annum from the 50 million per annum paid previously.
The new contributions are only for ongoing service of current employees that are active members of the scheme.
No fide cit type funding is required.
fide cit funding for PSPS, where applicable, as applied in 2011, is apportioned in the ratio of 70 30 between the PAC with-pro ts fund and shareholder-backed operations following detailed consideration in 2005 of the sourcing of previous contributions.
Employer contributions for ongoing service of current employees are apportioned in the ratio relevant to current activity.
In 2012, total contributions paid in the year including expenses were 36 million 2011: 54 million.
The market value of PSPS scheme assets as at the 5 April 2011 valuation was 5,255 million.
The actuarial assumptions used in determining bene t obligations and the net periodic bene t costs for the purposes of the 2011 valuation were as follows: Rate of increase in salaries Nil Rate of in ation: Retail Prices Index RPI 3.7 Consumer Prices Index CPI 3.0 Rate of increase of pensions in payment for in ation: Guaranteed maximum 5% 3.0 Guaranteed maximum 2.5% 2.5 Discretionary Nil Expected returns on plan assets 4.2 Mortality assumptions: The tables used for PSPS pensions in payment at 5 April 2011 were: Base post retirement mortality For current male female pensioners 113% 108% of the mortality rates of the 2000 series mortality tables PNMA00 PNFA00, published by the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau CMI.
For male female non-pensioners 107% 92% of the 2000 series rates PNMA00 PNFA00.
Allowance for future improvements to post retirement mortality For males females 100% 75% of Medium Cohort subject to a minimum rate of improvement of 2.00% 1.25% up to the age of 90, decreasing linearly to zero by age of 120 with a long-term rate of 1.75% pa 1.5% pa but adjusted as follows: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A period improvements are blended between ages 60 to 80 to the long-term improvement rate over a 15 year period compared with a 20 year period in the core CMI model and: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A cohort improvements are assumed to dissipate over a 30 year period, or by age 90 if earlier compared with a 40 year period, or by age 100 if earlier, in the core CMI model.
The last completed actuarial valuation of the Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme SAPS was as at 31 March 2011 by Jonathan Seed, Fellow of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, of Xa nity Consulting.
This valuation was nalised in the second half of 2012 and demonstrated the scheme to be 85 per cent funded.
Based on this valuation, it was agreed with the Trustees that the existing level of fide cit funding of 13.1 million per annum continues to be paid into the scheme over the next six years, to eliminate the actuarial fide cit.
The last completed actuarial valuation of the M&G pension scheme was as at 31 December 2011 by Paul Belok, Fellow of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, of AON Hewitt Limited.
This valuation was nalised in the second half of 2012 and demonstrated the scheme to be 83 per cent funded.
Based on this valuation, fide cit funding amounts designed to eliminate the actuarial fide cit over a three year period are being made from January 2013 of 18.6 million per annum for the first two years and 9.3 million in the third year.
This compares to the 10.5 million of fide cit funding paid by the Group in 2012.
300 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 I: Other notes continued I3: Staff and pension plans continued Summary economic and IAS 19 financial positions Under the IAS 19 Employee Bene ts valuation basis, the Group applies IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a fide ned Bene t Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
Under IFRIC 14, a surplus is only recognised to the extent that the Company is able to access the surplus either through an unconditional right of refund to the surplus or through reduced future contributions relating to ongoing service, which have been substantively enacted or contractually agreed.
Further, the IFRS financial position recorded, re ects the higher of any underlying IAS 19 fide cit and any obligation for committed fide cit funding where applicable.
For PSPS, the Group does not have an unconditional right of refund to any surplus of the scheme.
Accordingly, prior to the nalisation of the 5 April 2011 triennial valuation, the Group had not recognised the underlying surplus of PSPS 31 December 2011: 1,588 million gross of deferred tax and had recognised an economic liability for fide cit funding 31 December 2011: 19 million gross of deferred tax.
The underlying IAS 19 surplus for PSPS at 31 December 2012 was 1,174 million.
The nalisation of the 5 April 2011 triennial valuation was accompanied by an agreement with the Trustees that additional fide cit type funding would no longer be necessary and furthermore, the level of contributions for ongoing service of current employees was reduced to the minimum level required by the scheme rules.
As a consequence, a portion of the surplus, being 164 million, is now recognised as recoverable.
The 164 million represents the present value of the economic bene ts available from the reductions to future ongoing contributions to the scheme.
Accordingly, a net surplus of 164 million gross of deferred tax was recognised at 31 December 2012.
Of this amount, 115 million was allocated to the PAC with-pro ts fund and 49 million was allocated to the shareholders fund.
The IAS 19 fide cit of the Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme at 31 December 2012 was 74 million 31 December 2011: fide cit of 55 million and has been allocated approximately 50 per cent to the PAC with-pro ts fund and 50 per cent to the shareholders fund.
The IAS 19 surplus of the M&G pension scheme on an economic basis at 31 December 2012 was 38 million 31 December 2011: surplus of 10 million and is wholly attributable to shareholders.
The underlying position on an economic basis re ects the assets including investments in Prudential insurance policies that are offset against liabilities to policyholders on the Group consolidation and the liabilities of the schemes.
As at 31 December 2012, the M&G pension scheme has invested 169 million in Prudential insurance policies 31 December 2011: 165 million.
After excluding these investments that are offset against liabilities to policyholders, the IAS 19 basis position of the M&G pension scheme is a fide cit of 131 million 31 December 2011: fide cit of 155 million.
2 Corporate governance The rules of the Groups largest pension arrangement, the fide ned bene t section of PSPS, a final salary scheme, specify that, in exercising its investment powers, the Trustees objective is to achieve the best overall investment return consistent with the security of the assets of the scheme.
In doing this, consideration is given to the nature and duration of the schemes liabilities.
The Trustee sets the benchmark for the asset mix, following analysis of the liabilities by the Schemes Actuary and, having taken advice from the Investment Managers, then selects benchmark indices for each asset type in order to measure investment performance against a benchmark return.
The Trustee reviews strategy, the asset mix benchmark and the Investment Managers objectives every three years, to coincide with the Actuarial Valuation, or earlier if the Scheme Actuary recommends.
Interim reviews are conducted annually based on changing economic circumstances and financial market levels.
The Trustee sets the general investment policy and speci es any restrictions on types of investment and the degrees of divergence permitted from the benchmark, but delegates the responsibility for selection and realisation of speci c investments to the Investment Managers.
In carrying out this responsibility, the Investment Managers are required by the Pensions Act 1995 to have regard to the need for diversi cation and suitability of investments.
Subject to a number of restrictions contained within the relevant asset management agreements, the Investment Managers are authorised to invest in any class of investment asset.
However, the Investment Managers will not invest in any new class of investment asset without prior consultation with the Trustee.
The Trustee consults the Principal Employer, the Prudential Assurance Company, on these investment principles, but the ultimate responsibility for the investment of the assets of the scheme lies with the Trustee.
The investment policies and strategies for the other two UK fide ned bene t schemes, the M&G Group Pension Scheme and the Scottish Amicable Staff Pension Scheme, which are both final salary schemes, follow similar principles, but have different target allocations re ecting the particular requirements of the schemes.
I: Other notes Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 301 3 Assumptions The actuarial assumptions used in determining bene t obligations and the net periodic bene t costs for the years ended 31 December were as follows: 2012 % 2011 % Discount rate 4.4 4.7 Rate of increase in salaries 2.7 2.9 Rate of in ation Retail prices index RPI 2.7 2.9 Consumer prices index CPI 2.0 1.9 Rate of increase of pensions in payment for in ation: Guaranteed maximum 5% 2.5 2.5 Guaranteed maximum 2.5% 2.5 2.5 Discretionary 2.5 2.5 Expected returns on plan assets 3.1 5.1 The discount rate has been determined by reference to an AA corporate bond index, adjusted where applicable, to allow for the diff erence in duration between the index and the pension liabilities.
The rate of infl ation refl ects the long-term assumption for the UK RPI or CPI depending on the tranche of the schemes.
The rates of 2.5 per cent are those for PSPS.
Assumed rates of increase of pensions in payments for infl ation for all other schemes are 2.7 per cent in 2012 2011: 2.9 per cent.
The calculations are based on current actuarially calculated mortality estimates with a speci c allowance made for future improvements in mortality.
The speci c allowance for 2012 and 2011 is in line with a custom calibration of the 2009 mortality model from the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries CMI.
The tables used for PSPS immediate annuities in payment at 31 December 2012 and 2011 were: Male: 108.6 per cent PNMA00 with improvements in line with a custom calibration of the CMIs 2009 mortality model, with a long-term mortality improvement rate of 1.75 per cent per annum: and Female: 103.4 per cent PNFA00 with improvements in line with a custom calibration of the CMIs 2009 mortality model, with a long-term mortality improvement rate of 1.00 per cent per annum.
The assumed life expectancies on retirement at age 60, based on the mortality table used was: 2012 years 2011 years Male Female Male Female Retiring today 28.0 29.1 27.8 29.0 Retiring in 20 years time 30.6 31.2 30.5 31.1 The mean term of the current PSPS liabilities is around 17 years.
Using external actuarial advice provided by the scheme actuaries being Towers Watson for the valuation of PSPS, Xa nity Consulting for SAPS and Aon Hewitt Limited for the M&G scheme, the most recent full valuations have been updated to 31 December 2012, applying the principles prescribed by IAS 19.
4 Group economic and IAS 19 fi financial position This section illustrates the financial position of the Groups fide ned bene t pension schemes on an economic basis and the IAS 19 basis.
The underlying position on an economic basis re ects the assets including investments in Prudential policies that are offset against liabilities to policyholders on the Group consolidation and the liabilities of the schemes.
At 31 December 2012, the investments in Prudential insurance policies comprise 123 million 2011: 112 million for PSPS and 169 million 2011: 165 million for the M&G scheme.
Separately, the economic financial position also includes the effect of the application of IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a fide ned Bene t Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
For PSPS, where there are constraints in the trust deed to prevent the company access, the surplus is not recognised and a liability to additional funding is established, where relevant as previously described.
302 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 I: Other notes continued I3: Staff and pension plans continued i Estimated pension scheme fide cit economic basis Movements on the pension scheme fide cit determined on the economic basis are as follows, with the effect of the application of IFRIC 14 being shown separately: 2012 m Charge credit to income statement Operating Surplus results Surplus defi cit in based on defi cit scheme at longer-term Actuarial and in scheme 1 January investment other gains Contributions at 31 Dec 2012 returns and losses paid 2012 All schemes Underlying position without the eff ect of IFRIC 14 Surplus 1,543 166 311 72 1,138 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-pro ts fund 1,083 105 222 31 787 Shareholders' share: Gross of tax surplus 460 61 89 41 351 Related tax 117 25 20 9 81 Net of shareholders' tax 343 36 69 32 270 Eff ect of IFRIC 14 Derecognition of surplus and set up of additional funding obligation 1 Jan 2012 only 1,607 136 461 1,010 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-pro ts fund 1,124 93 322 709 Shareholders' share: Gross of tax fide cit 483 43 139 301 Related tax 123 22 32 69 Net of shareholders' tax 360 21 107 232 With the eff ect of IFRIC 14 fide cit surplus 64 30 150 72 128 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-pro ts fund 41 12 100 31 78 Shareholders' share: Gross of tax fide cit surplus 23 18 50 41 50 Related tax 6 3 12 9 12 Net of shareholders tax 17 15 38 32 38 I: Other notes Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 303 Underlying investments and liabilities of the schemes On the economic basis, after including the underlying assets represented by the investments in Prudential insurance policies as scheme assets, the plans net assets at 31 December comprise the following investments and liabilities: 2012 m 2011 m Other Other PSPS schemes Total PSPS schemes Total m m m % m m m % Equities 43 321 364 5 210 273 483 7 Bonds 5,440 418 5,858 81 5,547 407 5,954 83 Properties 290 40 330 5 297 20 317 4 note i Other assets 627 18 645 9 378 31 409 6 Total value of assets 6,400 797 7,197 100 6,432 731 7,163 100 Note i The PSPS scheme has entered into a derivatives based strategy to match the duration and infl ation profi le of its liabilities.
This involved a reallocation from other investments to other assets with an interest and infl ation swap overlay.
In broad terms, the scheme is committed to making a series of payments related to LIBOR on a nominal amount and in return the scheme receives a series of fi xed and infl ation-linked payments which match a proportion of its liabilities.
As at 31 December 2012, the nominal value of the interest and infl ation-linked swaps amounted to 0.9 billion 2011: 0.9 billion and 2.0 billion 2011: 2.0 billion respectively.
ii IAS 19 basis financial position as consolidated The movements in the pension schemes surplus and fide cit between scheme assets and liabilities as consolidated in the financial statements were: 2012 m PSPS Other schemes Total Total Adjust for Economic investments Present value basis net in Prudential IAS 19 Asset Plan of benefi t surplus insurance basis net liability assets obligations defi cit policies defi cit Net fide cit, beginning of year 19 731 776 64 165 229 Current service cost 11 11 11 Other finance income 35 37 2 8 10 Cash costs and unwind of discount on opening provision for fide cit funding for PSPS 17 17 17 Bene t payments 17 17 Contributions 36 36 72 72 Actuarial and other gains and losses 164 12 26 150 5 145 Transfer out of investment in Prudential insurance policies 9 9 Net surplus fide cit, end of year 164 797 833 128 169 41 304 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 I: Other notes continued I3: Staff and pension plans continued 2011 m PSPS Other schemes Total Total Adjust for Economic investments Provision Present value basis net in Prudential IAS 19 of defi cit Plan of benefi t surplus insurance basis net funding assets obligations defi cit policies defi cit Net fide cit, beginning of year 47 653 826 220 227 447 Current service cost 13 13 13 Negative past service cost RPI to CPI in ation measure change 66 66 66 Other finance income 41 45 4 15 19 Cash costs and unwind of discount on opening provision for fide cit funding for PSPS 22 22 22 Bene t payments 15 15 5 5 Contributions 54 40 1 93 21 72 Actuarial and other gains and losses 4 12 28 36 1 37 Transfer out of investment in Prudential insurance policies 92 92 Net fide cit, end of year 19 731 776 64 165 229 I: Other notes Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 305 The IAS 19 basis pensions fide cit can be summarised as follows: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m % m % m % m % m % Plan assets IAS 19 basis before effect of IFRIC 14 : Equities 202 5 336 5 610 11 917 18 875 17 Bonds 5,728 84 5,826 85 4,095 72 3,587 69 2,619 52 Properties 330 5 317 4 206 4 278 5 290 6 Other assets 645 6 407 6 748 13 442 8 1,273 25 Fair value of plan assets, end of year 6,905 100 6,886 100 5,659 100 5,224 100 5,057 100 Present value of bene t obligation 6,059 5,620 5,438 4,951 4,493 Funded status wholly or partly funded 846 1,266 221 273 564 Present value of unfunded obligations M&G scheme 254 223 180 846 1,266 33 50 384 Effect of the application of IFRIC 14 for pension schemes Derecognition of PSPS surplus 1,010 1,588 485 513 728 Set up obligation for fide cit funding for PSPS 19 47 75 65 Adjustment in respect of investment of PSPS in Prudential policies 123 112 118 101 103 fide cit recognised in the statement of financial position 41 229 447 437 306 Experience adjustments: Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 4 314 4 76 145 Percentage of scheme liabilities at 31 December 0.07 % 5.59 % 0.07 % 1.47% 3.10% Experience adjustments on scheme assets IAS 19 basis 39 998 287 100 277 Percentage of scheme assets at 31 December 0.57 % 14.49% 5.07% 1.91% 5.48 % The IAS 19 basis plan assets at 31 December 2012 of 6,905 million is diff erent from the economic basis plan assets of 7,197 million as show in section 4 i above due to the exclusion of investment in Prudential insurance policies of 292 million comprising 123 million for PSPS and 169 million for the M&G scheme.
The M&G pension scheme invests in Prudential insurance policies.
On Prudential Group consolidation these assets are eliminated against liabilities in the statement of fi financial position of UK insurance operations.
Up until 2011 all of the M&G scheme assets were invested in this way thus giving rise to an unfunded status on a Prudential Group consolidated basis.
At 31 December 2012 and 2011, only 169 million 2011: 165 million out of the M&G scheme assets of 297 million 2011: 257 million was invested in Prudential insurance policies, thereby switching its status to a partly funded scheme.
The experience adjustments on scheme liabilities in 2011 of 314 million related mainly to the true-up refl ecting improvements in data consequent upon the ongoing 2011 triennial valuations of PSPS and the Scottish Amicable pension scheme.
The experience adjustments on scheme liabilities in 2008 of a gain of 145 million related mainly to the true up refl ecting improvements in data consequent upon the 2008 triennial valuation of PSPS.
306 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 I: Other notes continued I3: Staff and pension plans continued The long-term expected rate of return has been taken to be the weighted average by market value of the long-term expected rates of return on each major asset class shown above.
2012 % 2011 % Long-term expected rate of return: Equity 6.8 8.2 Bonds 3.0 4.6 Properties 5.6 6.9 Other assets 2.0 4.8 Weighted average long-term expected rate of return 3.1 5.1 The expected rates of return have been determined by reference to long-term expectations, the carrying value of the assets and equity and other market conditions at the statement of financial position date.
The actual return on scheme assets was a gain of 189 million gain of 2011: 1,290 million on an IAS 19 basis.
None of the scheme assets included shares in Prudential plc or property occupied by the Prudential Group.
iii Credit charge to the income statement The components of the credit charge for the net periodic pension cost comprising amounts attributable to the PAC with-pro ts fund and shareholder-backed operations are as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Pension cost Current service cost 32 35 note a Past service cost: RPI to CPI in ation measure change in 2011 282 Exceptional discretionary pension increase for PSPS in 2012 106 Finance expense income: Interest cost 263 299 Expected return on assets IAS 19 basis 227 283 Add: expected return on investments of scheme assets in Prudential insurance policies 8 25 Expected return on assets economic basis 235 308 Total charge credit without the effect of IFRIC 14 166 256 Effect of the application of IFRIC 14 136 229 note i above and note b Pension cost economic basis 30 27 note d Adjustment for investments in Prudential insurance policies 8 15 Pension cost IAS 19 basis as recognised in the income statement and referred to in note I3a 38 12 Actuarial and other gains and losses Actual less expected return on assets 34 982 Losses on changes of assumptions for plan liabilities 273 414 Experience losses gains on liabilities 4 314 Total charge credit without the effect of IFRIC 14 311 882 Effect of the application of IFRIC 14 461 846 note i above and note c Actuarial gains and losses economic basis 150 36 note d Adjustment for investments in Prudential insurance policies 5 1 Actuarial gains and losses IAS 19 basis as recognised in the income statement and referred to in note I3a 145 37 Net periodic pension cost included within acquisition and other operating expenditure in the income statement 107 49 I: Other notes Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 307 Notes a Past service cost RPI CPI infl ation measure change in 2011 During 2011 the Group altered its infl ation measure basis for future statutory increases to pension payments for certain tranches of its UK defi ned benefi t pension schemes.
This refl ected the UK Governments decision to replace the basis of indexation from RPI with CPI.
The 282 million credit in 2011 shown above comprised 216 million for PSPS and 66 million for other schemes.
As noted earlier, the PSPS scheme surplus was not recognised for accounting purposes due to the application of IFRIC 14.
The 66 million for other schemes was allocated as 24 million to PAC with-profi ts fund and 42 million to shareholders as referred to in note C. Exceptional discretionary pension increase for PSPS in 2012 During the fi first half of 2012, an exceptional discretionary increase to pensions in payment of PSPS was awarded which resulted in a past service cost of 106 million.
As the PSPS scheme surplus is substantially not recognised for accounting purposes, these two items had negligible impact on the Groups results.
b Consistent with the derecognition of a substantial portion of the Companys interest in the underlying IAS 19 surplus of PSPS, the charge to operating profi t based on longer-term investment returns for PSPS refl ects the cash cost of contributions for ongoing service of active members 2012: 17 million: 2011: 20 million.
In addition, the charge to the operating results also includes a charge for the unwind of discount on the opening provision for defi cit funding for PSPS 2012: nil: 2011:2 million.
c The net credit charge for actuarial and other gains and losses is recorded within the income statement.
Within the Groups supplementary analysis of profi t, the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses ie net of allocation of the share to the PAC with-profi ts funds of 50 million as shown in note ii above 2011:21 million is excluded from operating profi t based on longer-term investment returns as shown in note B1.
The 2012 actuarial and other gains refl ects the positive impact of infl ation rate movements in the period, off set by lower discount rates as interest rate falls, and partial recognition of actuarial surplus in PSPS described above.
d The adjustments for investments in Prudential insurance policies are consolidation adjustments with no net impact to the operating results.
Total employer contributions expected to be paid into the Group fide ned bene t schemes for the year ending 31 December 2012 amounts to 56 million 2011: 94 million.
5 Sensitivity of the pension scheme liabilities to key variables The total underlying Group pension scheme liabilities of 6,059 million 2011: 5,620 million comprise 5,226 million 2011: 4,844 million for PSPS and 833 million 2011: 776 million for the other schemes.
The table below shows the sensitivity of the underlying PSPS and the other scheme liabilities at 31 December 2012 and 2011 to changes in discount rates, in ation rates and mortality rates.
Assumption applied Impact of sensitivity on Sensitivity change in scheme liabilities on IAS 19 20122011 assumption basis 2012 2011 Discount rate 4.4% 4.7% Decrease by 0.2% Increase in scheme liabilities by: PSPS 3.3% 3.3% Other schemes 4.9% 4.8% Discount rate 4.4% 4.7% Increase by 0.2% Decrease in scheme liabilities by: PSPS 3.1% 3.1% Other schemes 4.6% 4.5% Rate of in ation RPI: 2.7% RPI: 2.9% RPI: Decrease by 0.2% Decrease in scheme liabilities by: PSPS 0.6% 0.6% CPI: 2.0% CPI: 1.9% CPI: Decrease by 0.2% with consequent reduction in salary increases Other schemes 4.3% 4.1% Mortality rate Increase life expectancy Increase in scheme by 1 year liabilities by: PSPS 2.6% 2.7% Other schemes 2.4% 2.4% The sensitivity of the underlying pension scheme liabilities to changes in discount, in ation and mortality rates as shown above does not directly equate to the impact on the pro t or loss attributable to shareholders or shareholders equity due to the effect of the application of IFRIC 14 on PSPS and the allocation of a share of the interest in financial position of the PSPS and Scottish Amicable schemes to the PAC with-pro ts fund as described above.
The sensitivity to the changes in the key variables as shown in the table above has no signi cant impact on the pension costs included in the Groups operating results.
This is due to the pension costs charged in each of the periods presented being derived largely from market conditions at the beginning of the period.
After applying IFRIC 14 and to the extent attributable to shareholders, any residual impact from the changes to these variables is re ected as actuarial gains and losses on fide ned bene t pension schemes within the supplementary analysis of pro ts.
308 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 I: Other notes continued I3: Staff and pension plans continued 6 Transfer value of PSPS scheme At 31 December 2012, it is estimated that the assets of the scheme are broadly suf cient to cover the liabilities of PSPS on a buy-out basis including an allowance for expenses.
The buyout basis refers to a basis that might apply in the circumstance of a transfer to another appropriate financial institution.
In making this assessment, it has been assumed that a more conservative investment strategy applies together with a more prudent allowance for future mortality improvements and no allowance for discretionary pension increases.
ii Other pension plans The Group operates various fide ned contribution pension schemes including schemes in Jackson and Asia.
The cost of the Groups contributions for continuing operations to these schemes in 2012 was 47 million 2011: 40 million.
I4: Share-based payments a Description of the plans The Group maintains a number of main share award and share option plans relating to Prudential plc shares, which are described below.
i Group Performance Share Plan, previously Restricted Share Plan The Group Performance Share Plan GPSP is the incentive plan in which all executive directors and other senior executives within the Group can participate.
This scheme was established as a replacement for the Restricted Share Plan RSP under which no further awards could be made after March 2006.
Awards are granted either in the form of a nil cost option, conditional right over shares, or such other form that shall confer to the participant an equivalent economic bene t, with a vesting period of three years.
The performance measure for the awards is that Prudentials Total Shareholder Return TSR outperforms an index comprising of peer companies.
Vesting of the awards between each performance point is on a straight-line sliding-scale basis.
Participants are entitled to the value of reinvested dividends that would have accrued on the shares that vest.
Beginning in 2010, newly issued shares have been used in settling the awards that vest and are released.
The RSP was, until March 2006, the Groups long-term incentive plan for executive directors and other senior executives designed to provide rewards linked to shareholder return.
Each year participants were granted a conditional option to receive a number of shares.
There was a deferment period of three years, at the end of which the award vested to an extent that depended on the performance of the Groups shares including notional reinvested dividends and on the Groups underlying financial performance.
After vesting, the option may be exercised at zero cost at any time, subject to closed period rules, in the balance of a 10-year period.
Shares are purchased in the open market by a trust for the bene t of qualifying employees.
ii Business Unit Performance Plan The Business Unit Performance Plan BUPP is an incentive plan created to provide a common framework under which awards would be made to senior employees in the UK, Jackson and Asia, including the chief executive of cers.
Awards under this plan were based on growth in shareholder capital value on the European Embedded Value basis with performance measured over three years.
All awards made are settled in shares after vesting.
Participants are entitled to receive the value of reinvested dividends over the performance period for those shares that vest.
The growth parameters for the awards are relevant to each region, and vesting of the awards between each performance point is on a straight-line sliding-scale basis.
Beginning in 2010, newly issued shares will be used in settling the awards that vest and are released.
The BUPP awards for the UK business unit are based on the same relative TSR measure applied to GPSP awards.
As a result, awards made under the UK BUPP re ect those TSR conditions applied to GPSP awards.
iii Savings-related options The Group maintains four share option schemes satis ed by the issue of new shares: UK-based executive directors and eligible employees are eligible to participate in the Prudential HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved UK savings-related share option scheme.
Asia-based executive directors and eligible employees can participate in the equivalent International savings-related share option scheme.
Dublin-based employees are eligible to participate in the Prudential International Assurance sharesave plan and Hong Kong-based agents can participate in the non-employee savings-related share option scheme.
The options are normally exercisable during the six month period following either the third or fifth anniversary of the start of the relevant savings contract.
No options may be granted under the schemes if the grant would cause the number of shares which have been issued, or which remain issuable pursuant to options granted in the preceding 10 years under the scheme and other share option schemes operated by the Company, or which have been issued under any other share incentive scheme of the Company, to exceed 10 per cent of the Companys ordinary share capital at the proposed date of grant.
iv Share Incentive Plan UK-based executive directors and employees are also eligible to participate in the Companys HMRC-approved Share Incentive Plan SIP, which allows all UK-based employees to purchase shares of Prudential plc partnership shares on a monthly basis out of gross salary.
For every four partnership shares bought, an additional matching share is awarded, purchased on the open market.
Dividend shares accumulate while the employee participates in the plan.
Partnership shares may be withdrawn from the scheme at any time.
If the employee withdraws from the plan within five years, the matching shares are forfeit, and if within three years, dividend shares are forfeit.
I: Other notes Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 309 v Performance-related share awards Jackson operates a performance-related share award which, subject to the prior approval of the Jackson Remuneration Committee, may grant share awards to eligible Jackson employees in the form of a contingent right to receive shares or a conditional allocation of shares.
These share awards have vesting periods of four years and are at nil cost to the employee.
Award holders do not have any right to dividends or voting rights attaching to the shares.
The shares are held in the employee share trust in the form of American Depository Receipts which are tradable on the New York Stock Exchange.
vi Long-term Incentive Plan The Prudential Corporation Asia Long-Term Incentive Plan PCA LTIP is an incentive plan created in 2008 for senior employees and chief executive of cers.
Awards under this plan will vest after three years subject to the employee being in employment at the time of vesting without any performance conditions.
Awards are discretionary and on a year-by-year basis determined by Prudentials full year financial results and the employees contribution to the business.
All awards will be in Prudential shares except for countries where share awards are not feasible due to securities and or tax reasons, where awards will be replaced by the cash value of the shares that would otherwise have been transferred.
vii Annual Incentive Plan Certain senior executives have Annual Incentive Plans AIP with awards paid in cash up to the target level of their plan.
The portion of any award for above-target performance is made in the form of awards of shares deferred for three years, with the release of shares subject to close periods.
The shares are held in the employee share trust and shares equivalent to dividends otherwise payable will accumulate for the bene t of award holders during the deferral period up to the release date.
viii Other Share awards In addition, there are other share awards, including the Prudential Corporation Asia Deferred Bonus Plan PCA DBP, Prudential Capital Deferred Bonus Plan PruCap DBP and other arrangements.
There are no performance conditions attaching to these deferred bonus plans, and awards vest in full subject to the individual being employed by Prudential at the end of the vesting period.
The other arrangements relate to various awards that have been made without performance conditions to individual employees, typically in order to secure their appointment or ensure retention.
b Outstanding options and awards The following table shows movement in options outstanding under the Groups share-based compensation plans at 31 December 2012 and 2011: 2012 2011 Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price Options outstanding under SAYE schemes millions millions Beginning of year: 13.3 3.55 12.8 3.4 Granted 2.4 6.29 2.1 4.66 Exercised 5.7 2.99 0.6 3.98 Forfeited 0.2 4.29 0.2 3.17 Cancelled 0.2 4.32 0.4 3.56 Lapsed 0.2 4.39 0.4 3.94 End of year 9.4 4.54 13.3 3.55 Options immediately exercisable, end of year 0.2 3.88 0.4 4.54 The weighted average share price of Prudential plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 was 7.69 compared to 6.86 for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Movements in share awards outstanding under the Groups share-based compensation plans relating to Prudential plc shares at 31 December 2012 and 2011 were as follows: 2012 2011 Number Number of awards of awards Awards outstanding under incentive plans including conditional options millions millions Beginning of year: 26.7 23.9 Granted 8.8 10.3 Exercised 9.4 4.2 Forfeited 1.4 0.1 Expired 1.0 3.2 End of year 23.7 26.7 310 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 I: Other notes continued I4: Share-based payments continued The following table provides a summary of the range of exercise prices for Prudential plc options outstanding at 31 December 2012.
Outstanding Exercisable Weighted average Weighted Weighted remaining average average Number contractual exercise Number exercise Outstanding life prices exercisable prices Range of exercise prices millions years millions Between 2 and 3 2.8 2.0 2.88 0.1 2.88 Between 4 and 5 4.1 2.3 4.61 0.1 4.24 Between 5 and 6 0.1 0.6 5.60 5.67 Between 6 and 7 2.4 3.6 6.29 9.4 2.6 4.54 0.2 3.88 The following table provides a summary of the range of exercise prices for Prudential plc options outstanding at 31 December 2011.
Outstanding Exercisable Weighted average Weighted Weighted remaining average average Number contractual exercise Number exercise Outstanding life prices exercisable prices Range of exercise prices millions years millions Between 2 and 3 8.2 1.6 2.88 Between 3 and 4 0.8 3.73 3.43 Between 4 and 5 5.0 3.1 4.58 0.3 4.40 Between 5 and 6 0.1 0.9 5.58 0.1 5.53 13.3 2.2 3.55 0.4 4.54 The years shown above for weighted average remaining contractual life include the time period from end of vesting period to expiration of contract.
c Fair value of options and awards The weighted average fair values of Prudential plc options and awards granted during the period are as follows: 2012 2011 Weighted average fair value Weighted average fair value SAYE SAYE GPSP Options Awards GPSP Options Awards 3.91 2.28 6.72 3.88 2.63 6.28 The fair value amounts estimated on the date of grant relating to all options including conditional nil cost options above were determined using the Black-Scholes and the Monte Carlo option-pricing models using the following assumptions: 2012 2011 SAYE SAYE GPSP Options GPSP Options Dividend yield % 3.63 3.33 Expected volatility % 33.03 34.33 28.90 62.67 Risk-free interest rate % 0.31 0.39 1.32 0.89 Expected option life years 3.24 3.48 Weighted average exercise price 6.29 4.66 Weighted average share price 6.78 8.26 7.32 6.06 I: Other notes Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 311 Compensation costs for all share-based compensation plans are determined using the Black-Scholes model, Monte Carlo model or other market consistent valuation methods.
The compensation costs for all awards and options are recognised in net income over the plans respective vesting periods.
The Group uses the Black-Scholes model to value all options and awards other than the GPSP and UK BUPP, for which the Group uses a Monte Carlo model in order to allow for the impact of the TSR performance conditions.
These models are used to calculate fair values for share options and awards at the grant date based on the quoted market price of the stock at the measurement date, the amount, if any, that the employees are required to pay, the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rates and exercise prices.
For the SAYE options, the expected volatility is based on the market implied volatilities for Prudential shares as quoted on Bloomberg.
This change from an estimate based on historic volatility brings the methodology into line with the approach used to determine the volatility for the GPSP and UK BUPP awards.
The Prudential speci c at-the-money implied volatilities are adjusted to allow for the different term and discounted exercise price on SAYE options by using information on the volatility surface of the FTSE 100.
Risk-free interest rates are UK gilt rates with projections for three-year and five-year terms to match corresponding vesting periods.
Dividend yield is determined as the average yield over a period of 12 months up to and including the date of grant.
For the GPSP, volatility and correlation between Prudential and an index constructed from a simple average of the TSR growth of 10 companies is required.
For grants in 2012, an average index volatility and correlation of 32 per cent and 76 per cent respectively, were used.
For the GPSP, market implied volatilities are used for both Prudential and the components of the index.
Changes to the subjective input assumptions could materially affect the fair value estimate.
d Share-based payment expense charged to the income statement Total expense recognised in the year in the consolidated financial statements related to share-based compensation is as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Share-based compensation expense 58 48 Amount accounted for as equity-settled 42 44 Carrying value at 31 December of liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions 24 15 Intrinsic value of above liabilities for which rights had vested at 31 December 16 6 I5: Key management remuneration Key management constitutes the directors of Prudential plc as they have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
Total key management remuneration can be broken down in the following table: 2012 2011 Salaries and short-term bene ts 13,793,000 12,192,000 Post-employment bene ts 1,206,000 1,189,000 Share-based payments 11,787,000 9,734,000 26,786,000 23,115,000 Post-employment bene ts comprise the change in the transfer value of the accrued bene t relating to directors fide ned bene t pension schemes in the year and the total contributions made to directors other pension arrangements.
The share-based payments charge is the sum of 7,992,000 2011: 6,571,000, which is determined in accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based payments see note I4 and 3,795,000 2011: 3,163,000 of deferred share awards.
Total key management remuneration includes total directors emoluments of 18,505,000 2011: 16,212,000 as shown in the directors remuneration table and related footnotes in the directors remuneration report, and additional amounts in respect of pensions and share-based payments.
Further information on directors remuneration is given in the directors remuneration report.
312 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 I: Other notes continued I6: Fees payable to auditor 2012 m 2011 m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 2.0 2.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 6.5 6.1 Audit-related assurance services 3.2 2.6 Tax compliance services 0.5 0.6 Other assurance services 0.5 0.5 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.4 0.5 All other services 1.2 0.3 Total 14.3 12.7 In addition, there were fees incurred of 0.1 million 2011: 0.1 million for the audit of pension schemes.
The above audit fees for 2012 and 2011, re ect the new disclosure requirements of SI2011 2198 The Companies Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration and Liability Limitation Agreements Amendment Regulations 2011.
The Audit Committee regularly monitors the non-audit services provided to the Group by its auditor and has developed a formal Auditor Independence Policy which sets out the types of services that the auditor may provide, consistent with the guidance in Sir Robert Smiths report Audit Committees Combined Code Guidance and with the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Audit Committee annually reviews the auditors objectivity and independence.
More information on these issues is given in the corporate governance report within this Annual Report.
I7: Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
In addition, the Company has transactions and outstanding balances with certain unit trusts, Open-Ended Investment Companies OEICs, collateralised debt obligations and similar entities which are not consolidated and where a Group company acts as manager.
These entities are regarded as related parties for the purposes of IAS 24.
The balances are included in the Groups statement of financial position sheet at fair value or amortised cost in accordance with their IAS 39 classi cations.
The transactions are included in the income statement and include amounts paid on issue of shares or units, amounts received on cancellation of shares or units and paid in respect of the periodic charge and administration fee.
Further details of the aggregate assets, liabilities, revenues, pro ts or losses and reporting dates of entities considered to be associates under IFRS are disclosed in note H8.
Executive of cers and directors of the Company may from time to time purchase insurance, asset management or annuity products marketed by Group companies in the ordinary course of business on substantially the same terms as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other persons.
In 2012 and 2011, other transactions with directors were not deemed to be signi cant both by virtue of their size and in the context of the directors financial positions.
As indicated above, all of these transactions are on terms broadly equivalent to those that prevail in arms length transactions.
Apart from these transactions with directors, no director had interests in shares, transactions or arrangements that require disclosure, other than those given in the directors remuneration report.
Key management remuneration is disclosed in note I5.
I: Other notes Financial statements Notes on the Group fi financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 313 I8: Subsidiary undertakings i Principal subsidiaries The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 31 December 2012, all wholly owned were: Main activity Country of incorporation The Prudential Assurance Company Limited Insurance England and Wales Prudential Annuities Limited Insurance England and Wales Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL Insurance Scotland M&G Investment Management Limited Asset management England and Wales Jackson National Life Insurance Company Insurance US Prudential Assurance Company Singapore Pte Limited Insurance Singapore Owned by a subsidiary undertaking of the Company.
Each subsidiary has one class of ordinary shares and operates mainly in its country of incorporation, except for PRIL which operates mainly in England and Wales.
Details of all Prudential subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the next Annual Returns of Prudential plc led with the UK Registrar of Companies.
ii Dividend restrictions and minimum capital requirements Certain Group subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the amount of funds they may transfer in the form of cash dividends or otherwise to the parent company.
UK insurance companies are required to maintain solvency margins which must be supported by capital reserves and other resources, including unrealised gains on investments.
Jackson can pay dividends on its capital stock only out of earned surplus unless prior regulatory approval is obtained.
Furthermore, without the prior regulatory approval, dividends cannot be distributed if all dividends made within the preceding 12 months exceed the greater of Jacksons statutory net gain from operations or 10 per cent of Jacksons statutory surplus for the prior year.
In 2013, the maximum amount of dividends that could be paid by the US insurance sub-group, subject to the availability of earned surplus, without prior regulatory approval is US$352 million 216 million in 2012: US$411 million 264 million.
The Groups subsidiaries in Asia may remit dividends to the Group, in general, provided the statutory insurance fund meets the capital adequacy standard required under local statutory regulations and has suf cient distributable reserves.
The Group capital position statement for life assurance businesses is set out in note D5, showing the available capital re ecting the excess of regulatory basis over liabilities for each fund or group of companies determined by reference to the local regulation of the subsidiaries.
In addition, disclosure is also provided in note D5 of the local capital requirement of each of the fund or group of companies.
I9: Commitments i Operating leases The Group leases various of ces to conduct its business.
Leases in which a signi cant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classi ed as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2012 m 2011 m Future minimum lease payments for non-cancellable operating leases fall due during the following periods: Not later than 1 year 74 66 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 199 173 Later than 5 years 116 72 The total minimum future sublease rentals to be received on non-cancellable operating leases for land and buildings for the year ended 31 December 2012 were 18 million 2011: 18 million.
Minimum lease rental payments for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 73 million 2011: 74 million are included in the consolidated income statement.
ii Capital commitments The Group has provided, from time to time, certain guarantees and commitments to third parties including funding the purchase or development of land and buildings and other related matters.
The contractual obligations to purchase or develop investment properties at 31 December 2012 were 5 million 2011: 9 million.
314 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 I: Other notes continued I10: Cash fl ows Structural borrowings of shareholdernanced operations comprise of core debt of the parent company, the PruCap bank loan and Jackson surplus notes.
Core debt excludes borrowings to support short-term xed income securities programmes, non-recourse borrowings of investment subsidiaries of shareholdernanced operations and other borrowings of shareholdernanced operations.
Cash ows in respect of these borrowings are included within cash ows from operating activities.
Structural borrowings of with-pro ts operations relate solely to the 100 million 8.5 per cent undated subordinated guaranteed bonds which contribute to the solvency base of the Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF, a ring-fenced sub-fund of the PAC with-pro ts fund.
Cash ows in respect of other borrowings of with-pro ts funds, which principally relate to consolidated investment funds, are included within cash ows from operating activities.
I11: Post balance sheet events In January 2013, the Company issued US$700 million 5.25 per cent Tier 1 perpetual subordinated capital securities.
The Company also repaid on maturity, the 250 million Medium-Term Notes 2013, included within operational borrowings in note H13 in January 2013.
