392 Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Glossary AER Credit risk Actual Exchange Rates are actual historical exchange rates for The risk of loss if another party fails to meet its obligations, or fails the speci c accounting period, being the average rates over the to do so in a timely fashion.
period for the income statement and the closing rates for the balance sheet at the balance sheet date.
Currency risk The risk that asset or liability values, cash ows, income or Annual premium equivalent or APE expenses will be affected by changes in exchange rates.
A measure of new business activity that is calculated as the Also referred to as foreign exchange risk.
sum of annualised regular premiums from new business plus 10 per cent of single premiums on new business written during Deferred acquisition costs or DAC the period.
Acquisition costs are expenses of an insurer which are incurred in connection with the acquisition of new insurance contracts or the Asset backed security renewal of existing insurance policies.
They include commissions A security whose value and income payments are derived from and other variable sales inducements and the direct costs of and collateralised or backed by a speci ed pool of underlying issuing the policy, such as underwriting and other policy issue assets.
The pool of assets is typically a group of small and illiquid expenses.
Typically, under IFRS, an element of acquisition costs assets that are unable to be sold individually.
are deferred, ie not expensed in the year incurred, and instead amortised in the income statement in line with the emergence Available for sale AFS of surpluses on the related contracts.
Securities that have been acquired neither for short-term sale nor to be held to maturity.
Shown at fair value on the statement of Deferred annuities financial position and changes in value are taken straight to equity Annuities or pensions due to be paid from a future date or when instead of the income statement.
the policyholder reaches a speci ed age.
Bonuses Discretionary participation features or DPF Bonuses refer to the non-guaranteed bene t added to A contractual right to receive, as a supplement to guaranteed participating life insurance policies and are the way in which bene ts, additional bene ts: policyholders receive their share of the pro ts of the policies.
A A A A A A A A A A A A A That are likely to be a signi cant portion of the total There are normally two types of bonus: contractual bene ts: A A A A A A A A A A A A A Regular bonus expected to be added every year during the A A A A A A A A A A A A A Whose amount or timing is contractually at the discretion of term of the policy.
It is not guaranteed that a regular bonus will the issuer: and be added each year, but once it is added, it cannot be reversed, also known as annual or reversionary bonus: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A That are contractually based on asset, fund, company or other entity performance as discussed in IFRS 4.
A A A A A A A A A A A A A Final bonus an additional bonus expected to be paid when policyholders take money from the policies.
If investment Dividend cover return has been low over the lifetime of the policy, a final Dividend cover is calculated as operating pro t after tax on an bonus may not be paid.
Final bonuses may vary and are IFRS basis, divided by the current year interim dividend plus the not guaranteed.
Cash surrender value Endowment product The amount of cash available to a policyholder on the surrender An ordinary individual life insurance product that provides the of or withdrawal from a life insurance policy or annuity contract.
insured party with various guaranteed bene ts if it survives speci c maturity dates or periods stated in the policy.
Upon CER the death of the insured party within the coverage period, Constant Exchange Rate Prudential plc reports its results at a designated bene ciary receives the face value of the policy.
both actual exchange rates AER to re ect actual results and also constant exchange rates so as to eliminate the impact European Embedded Value or EEV from exchange translation.
Financial results prepared in accordance with a set of Principles issued by the Chief Financial Of cers Forum of European Core structural borrowings Insurance Companies in May 2004 and expanded by the Borrowings which Prudential considers to form part of its core Additional Guidance of EEV Disclosures published in capital structure and exclude operational borrowings.
Glossary Additional information Glossary Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 393 Fixed annuities Guaranteed minimum income benefi t GMIB US Fixed annuity contracts written in the US which allow for A guarantee that ensures, under certain conditions, that the tax-deferred accumulation of funds, are used for asset owner may annuitise the variable annuity contract based on the accumulation in retirement planning and for providing income in greater of a the actual account value or b a payout base equal retirement and offer exible payout options.
The contract holder to premiums credited with some interest rate, or the maximum pays the insurer a premium, which is credited to the contract anniversary value of the account prior to annuitisation.
Periodically, interest is credited to the contract holders account and administrative charges are deducted, as Guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefi t GMWB US appropriate.
A guarantee in a variable annuity that promises that the owner may make annual withdrawals of a fide ned amount for the life Fixed indexed annuities of the owner or until the total guaranteed amount is recovered, These are similar to xed annuities in that the contract holder regardless of market performance or the actual account balance.
pays the insurer a premium, which is credited to the contract holders account, and periodically, interest is credited to the Group free surplus contract holders account and administrative charges are Group free surplus at the end of the period comprises free deducted, as appropriate.
An annual minimum interest rate may surplus for the insurance businesses, representing the excess be guaranteed, although actual interest credited may be higher of the net worth over the required capital included in the EEV and is linked to an equity index over its indexed option period.
results, and IFRS net assets for the asset management businesses excluding goodwill.
The free surplus generated during the period Funds under management comprises the movement in this balance excluding foreign These comprise funds of the Group held in the statement exchange, capital movements, and other reserve movements.
of financial position and external funds that are managed Speci cally, it includes amounts maturing from the in-force by Prudential asset management operations.
operations during the period less the investment in new business, the effect of market movements and other one-off items.
Guaranteed annuities Policies that pay out a xed amount of bene t for a fide ned Health and protection period.
These comprise health and personal accident insurance products, which provide morbidity or sickness bene ts and Guaranteed investment contract GIC US include health, disability, critical illness and accident coverage.
An investment contract between an insurance company and an Health and protection products are sold both as standalone institutional investor, which provides a stated rate of return on policies and as riders that can be attached to life insurance deposits over a speci ed period of time.
Health and Protection riders are presented together for partial or total withdrawals at book value if needed for certain with ordinary individual life insurance products for purposes liquidity needs of the plan.
of disclosure of financial information.
Guaranteed minimum accumulation benefi t IGD surplus GMAB US The Prudential Groups solvency surplus measured in accordance A guarantee that ensures that the contract value of a variable with the EU Insurance Groups Directive.
annuity contract will be at least equal to a certain minimum amount after a speci ed number of years.
Immediate annuity An annuity in which payments to the annuitant or bene ciary Guaranteed minimum death benefi t GMDB US start at once upon establishment of the annuity plan or scheme.
The basic death bene t offered under variable annuity contracts, Such annuities are almost always purchased with a single lump which speci es that if the owner dies before annuity income sum payment.
payments begin, the bene ciary will receive a payment equal to the greater of the contract value or purchase payments less In-force withdrawals.
An insurance policy or contract re ected on records that has not expired, matured or otherwise been surrendered or terminated.
394 Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Glossary continued Inherited estate Net premiums For life insurance proprietary companies, surplus capital available Life insurance premiums net of reinsurance premiums ceded on top of what is necessary to cover policyholders reasonable to third-party reinsurers.
An inherited orphan estate is effectively surplus capital on a realistic basis built over time and not allocated to Net worth policyholders or shareholders.
Regulatory basis net assets for EEV reporting purposes, these net assets are sometimes subject to minor adjustment to achieve Internal rate of return IRR consistency with the IFRS treatment of certain items.
The IRR is equivalent to the discount rate at which the present EEV value of the post-tax cash ows expected to be earned over New business contribution the lifetime of the business written in shareholder-backed life The pro ts, calculated in accordance with European Embedded funds is equal to the total invested capital to support the writing Value Principles, from business sold in the financial reporting of the business.
The capital included in the calculation of the IRR period under consideration.
is equal to the amount required to pay acquisition costs and set up reserves less premiums received, plus encumbered capital.
New business margin The impact of the time value of options and guarantees is The value of new business on an EEV basis expressed as a included in the calculation.
percentage of the present value of new business premiums expected to be received from the new business.
Investment grade Investments rated BBBor above for S&P, Baa3 or above for Non-participating business Moodys.
Generally they are bonds that are judged by the rating A life insurance policy where the policyholder is not entitled to a agency as likely enough to meet payment obligations that banks share of the Companys pro ts and surplus, but receives certain are allowed to invest in them.
Also known as non-pro t in the UK.
Examples include pure risk policies eg xed annuities, term Investment-linked products or contracts insurance, critical illness and unit-linked insurance contracts.
Insurance products where the surrender value of the policy is linked to the value of underlying investments such as collective Operational borrowings investment schemes, internal investment pools or other Borrowings which arise in the normal course of the business.
property or uctuations in the value of underlying investment or indices.
Investment risk associated with the product is usually Open ended investment company OEIC borne by the policyholder.
Insurance coverage, investment and A collective investment fund structured as a limited company administration services are provided for which the charges are in which investors can buy and sell shares.
deducted from the investment fund assets.
Bene ts payable will depend on the price of the units prevailing at the time of Participating funds surrender, death or the maturity of the product, subject to Distinct portfolios where the policyholders have a contractual surrender charges.
These are also referred to as unit-linked right to receive at the discretion of the insurer additional bene ts products or unit-linked contracts.
based on factors such as the performance of a pool of assets held within the fund, as a supplement to any guaranteed bene ts.
Market value reduction MVR The insurer may either have discretion as to the timing of the A reduction applied to the payment on with-pro ts bonds when allocation of those bene ts to participating policyholders or may policyholders surrender in adverse market conditions.
have discretion as to the timing and the amount of the additional bene ts.
For Prudential, the most signi cant participating funds Money Market Fund MMF are with-pro ts funds for business written in the UK, Hong Kong, An MMF is an open-ended mutual fund that invests in short-term Malaysia and Singapore.
debt securities such as US treasury bills and commercial paper.
The purpose of an MMF is to provide investors with a safe place Participating policies or participating business to invest easily accessible cash-equivalent assets characterised Contracts of insurance where the policyholders have a as a low-risk, low-return investment.
contractual right to receive, at the discretion of the insurer, additional bene ts based on factors such as investment Mortality rate performance, as a supplement to any guaranteed bene ts.
Rate of death, varying by such parameters as age, gender This is also referred to as with-pro ts business.
and health, used in pricing and computing liabilities for future policyholders of life and annuity products, which contain Present value of new business premiums PVNBP mortality risks.
The present value of new business premiums is calculated as equalling single premiums plus the present value of expected premiums of new regular premium business, allowing for lapses and other assumptions made in determining the EEV new business contribution.
Glossary Additional information Glossary Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 395 Regular premium product Time value of options and guarantees A life insurance product with regular periodic premium payments.
The value of financial options and guarantees comprises two parts, the intrinsic value and the time value.
The intrinsic value is Rider given by a deterministic valuation on best estimate assumptions.
A supplemental plan that can be attached to a basic insurance The time value is the additional value arising from the variability policy, with payment of additional premium.
of economic outcomes in the future.
Risk margin reserve RMR charge Total shareholder return TSR An RMR is included within operating pro t based on longer-term TSR represents the growth in the value of a share plus the value investment returns and represents a charge for long-term of dividends paid, assuming that the dividends are reinvested in expected defaults of debt securities, determined by reference the Companys shares on the ex-dividend date.
to the credit quality of the portfolio.
Unallocated surplus Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF Unallocated surplus is recorded wholly as a liability and SAIF is a ring-fenced sub-fund of the Prudential Assurance represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for Companys long-term fund following the acquisition of the Prudentials with-pro ts funds.
The balance retained in the mutually owned Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society in unallocated surplus represents cumulative income arising on the 1997.
The fund is solely for the bene t of policyholders of SAIF.
with-pro ts business that has not been allocated to policyholders Shareholders of Prudential plc have no interest in the pro ts of or shareholders.
this fund although they are entitled to asset management fees on this business.
Unit-linked products or unit-linked contracts See investment-linked products or contracts above.
Separate account A separate account is a pool of investments held by an insurance Universal life company not in, or separate from, its general account.
The An insurance product where the customer pays exible returns from the separate account generally accrue to the premiums, subject to speci ed limits, that are accumulated in an policyholder.
A separate account allows an investor to choose account and are credited with interest at a rate either set by the an investment category according to his individual risk tolerance, insurer or re ecting returns on a pool of matching assets.
The and desire for performance.
customer may vary the death bene t and the contract may permit the customer to withdraw the account balance, typically subject Single premiums to a surrender charge.
Single premium policies of insurance are those that require only a single lump sum payment from the policyholder.
Variable annuity VA US An annuity whose value is determined by the performance Stochastic techniques of underlying investment options that frequently includes Stochastic techniques incorporate results from repeated securities.
A variable annuitys value is not guaranteed and will simulations using key financial parameters which are subject uctuate, depending on the value of its underlying investments.
to random variations and are projected into the future.
The holder of a variable annuity assumes the investment risk and the funds backing a variable annuity are held in the insurance Subordinated debt companys separate account.
VAs are similar to unit-linked A xed interest issue or debt that ranks below other debt in order annuities in the UK.
of priority for repayment if the issuer is liquidated.
Holders are compensated for the added risk through higher rates of interest.
Value of new business VNB Under EU insurance regulation, subordinated debt is not treated Embedded value of new insurance contracts written in the year.
as a liability and counts towards the coverage of the required minimum margin of solvency, with limitations.
Whole of life A type of life insurance policy that provides lifetime protection: Surrender premiums must usually be paid for life.
The sum assured is paid The termination of a life insurance policy or annuity contract at out whenever death occurs.
Commonly used for estate planning the request of the policyholder after which the policyholder purposes.
receives the cash surrender value, if any, of the contract.
With-profi ts funds Surrender charge or surrender fee See participating funds above.
The fee charged to a policyholder when a life insurance policy or annuity contract is surrendered for its cash surrender value prior Yield to the end of the surrender charge period.
A measure of the income received from an investment compared to the price paid for the investment.
Normally expressed as Takaful a percentage.
Insurance that is compliant with Islamic principles.
