EEV basis supplementary information Financial statements Notes on the EEV basis results Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 331 Notes on the EEV basis results 1 Basis of preparation, methodology and accounting presentation The EEV basis results have been prepared in accordance with the EEV Principles issued by the European Insurance CFO Forum in May 2004 and expanded by the Additional Guidance on EEV disclosures published in October 2005.
Where appropriate, the EEV basis results include the effects of adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The directors are responsible for the preparation of the supplementary information in accordance with the EEV Principles.
Except for the consequential effects of the change in accounting policy for deferred acquisition costs for IFRS reporting, as described in the footnotes to the summary statement of financial position, the 2011 results have been derived from the EEV basis results supplement to the Companys statutory accounts for 2011. a Covered business The EEV results for the Group are prepared for covered business, as fide ned by the EEV Principles.
Covered business represents the Groups long-term insurance business for which the value of new and in-force contracts is attributable to shareholders.
The EEV basis results for the Groups covered business are then combined with the IFRS basis results of the Groups other operations.
Under the EEV Principles, the results for covered business incorporate the projected margins of attaching internal asset management.
The fide nition of long-term business operations is consistent with previous practice and comprises those contracts falling under the fide nition for regulatory purposes together with, for US operations, contracts that are in substance the same as guaranteed investment contracts GICs but do not fall within the technical fide nition.
With two principal exceptions, covered business comprises the Groups long-term business operations.
The principal exceptions are for the closed Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF and for the presentational treatment of the financial position of the Groups principal fide ned bene t pension scheme, the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS, as described in note 1 c vi.
A small amount of UK group pensions business is also not modelled for EEV reporting purposes.
SAIF is a ring-fenced sub-fund of the Prudential Assurance Company PAC long-term fund, established by a Court approved Scheme of Arrangement in October 1997.
SAIF is closed to new business and the assets and liabilities of the fund are wholly attributable to the policyholders of the fund.
b Methodology i Embedded value Overview The embedded value is the present value of the shareholders interest in the earnings distributable from assets allocated to covered business after suf cient allowance has been made for the aggregate risks in that business.
The shareholders interest in the Groups long-term business comprises: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Present value of future shareholder cash ows from in-force covered business value of in-force business, less deductions for: the cost of locked-in required capital: the time value of cost of options and guarantees: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Locked-in required capital: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Shareholders net worth in excess of required capital free surplus.
The value of future new business is excluded from the embedded value.
Notwithstanding the basis of presentation of results as explained in note 1 c iv no smoothing of market or account balance values, unrealised gains or investment return is applied in determining the embedded value or pro t before tax.
Separately, the analysis of pro t is delineated between operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns and other constituent items as explained in note 1 c i. Valuation of in-force and new business The embedded value results are prepared incorporating best estimate assumptions about all relevant factors including levels of future investment returns, expenses, persistency and mortality.
These assumptions are used to project future cash ows.
The present value of the future cash ows is then calculated using a discount rate which re ects both the time value of money and the non-diversi able risks associated with the cash ows that are not otherwise allowed for.
Best estimate assumptions Best estimate assumptions are used for the cash ow projections, where best estimate is fide ned as the mean of the distribution of future possible outcomes.
The assumptions are reviewed actively and changes are made when evidence exists that material changes in future experience are reasonably certain.
Assumptions required in the calculation of the value of options and guarantees, for example relating to volatilities and correlations, or dynamic algorithms linking liabilities to assets, have been set equal to the best estimates and, wherever material and practical, re ect any dynamic relationships between the assumptions and the stochastic variables.
332 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 1 Basis of preparation, methodology and accounting presentation continued Principal economic assumptions The EEV basis results for the Groups operations have been determined using economic assumptions where the long-term expected rates of return on investments and risk discount rates are set by reference to year end rates of return on government bonds.
Expected returns on equity and property asset classes and corporate bonds are derived by adding a risk premium, based on the Groups long-term view, to the risk-free rate.
The total pro t that emerges over the lifetime of an individual contract as calculated using the embedded value basis is the same as that calculated under the IFRS basis.
Since the embedded value basis re ects discounted future cash ows, under this methodology the pro t emergence is advanced, thus more closely aligning the timing of the recognition of pro ts with the efforts and risks of current management actions, particularly with regard to business sold during the year.
New business In determining the EEV basis value of new business, premiums are included in projected cash ows on the same basis of distinguishing annual and single premium business as set out for statutory basis reporting.
New business premiums re ect those premiums attaching to covered business, including premiums for contracts classi ed as investment products for IFRS basis reporting.
New business premiums for regular premium products are shown on an annualised basis.
Internal vesting business is classi ed as new business where the contracts include an open market option.
The contribution from new business represents pro ts determined by applying operating assumptions as at the end of the year.
For UK immediate annuity business and single premium Universal Life products in Asia, primarily Singapore, the new business contribution is determined by applying economic assumptions re ecting point of sale market conditions.
This is consistent with how the business is priced as crediting rates are linked to yields on speci c assets and the yield locked-in when the assets are purchased at the point of sale of the policy.
For other business within the Group, end of period economic assumptions are used.
New business pro tability is a key metric for the Groups management of the development of the business.
In addition, new business margins are shown by reference to annual premium equivalents APE and the present value of new business premiums PVNBP and are calculated as the ratio of the value of new business pro t to APE and PVNBP.
APE are calculated as the aggregate of regular new business amounts and one-tenth of single new business amounts.
PVNBP are calculated as equalling single premiums plus the present value of expected premiums of new regular premium business, allowing for lapses and other assumptions made in determining the EEV new business contribution.
Valuation movements on investments With the exception of debt securities held by Jackson, investment gains and losses during the year to the extent that changes in capital values do not directly match changes in liabilities are included directly in the pro t for the year and shareholders equity as they arise.
The results for any covered business conceptually re ect the aggregate of the IFRS results and the movements on the additional shareholders interest recognised on the EEV basis.
Thus the start point for the calculation of the EEV results for Jackson, as for other businesses, re ects the market value movements recognised on the IFRS basis.
However, in determining the movements on the additional shareholders interest, the basis for calculating the Jackson EEV result acknowledges that, for debt securities backing liabilities, the aggregate EEV results re ect the fact that the value of in-force business instead incorporates the discounted value of future spread earnings.
This value is not affected generally by short-term market movements on securities that broadly speaking, are held for the longer-term.
Fixed income securities backing the free surplus and required capital for Jackson are accounted for at fair value.
However, consistent with the treatment applied under IFRS for Jackson securities classi ed as available-for-sale, movements in unrealised appreciation on these securities are accounted for in equity rather than in the income statement, as shown in the movement in shareholders equity.
Cost of capital A charge is deducted from the embedded value for the cost of capital supporting the Groups long-term business.
This capital is referred to as required capital.
The cost is the difference between the nominal value of the capital and the discounted value of the projected releases of this capital allowing for investment earnings net of tax on the capital.
The annual result is affected by the movement in this cost from year-to-year which comprises a charge against new business pro t and generally a release in respect of the reduction in capital requirements for business in force as this runs off.
Where required capital is held within a with-pro ts long-term fund, the value placed on surplus assets in the fund is already discounted to re ect its release over time and no further adjustment is necessary in respect of required capital.
Financial options and guarantees Nature of financial options and guarantees in Prudentials long-term business Asia operations Subject to local market circumstances and regulatory requirements, the guarantee features described below in respect of UK business broadly apply to similar types of participating contracts principally written in the PAC Hong Kong branch, Singapore and Malaysia.
Participating products have both guaranteed and non-guaranteed elements.
There are also various non-participating long-term products with guarantees.
The principal guarantees are those for whole of life contracts with oor levels of policyholder bene ts that accrue at rates set at inception and do not vary subsequently with market conditions.
EEV basis supplementary information Financial statements Notes on the EEV basis results Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 333 US operations Jackson The principal financial options and guarantees in Jackson are associated with the xed annuity and variable annuity VA lines of business.
Fixed annuities provide that, at Jacksons discretion, it may reset the interest rate credited to policyholders accounts, subject to a guaranteed minimum.
The guaranteed minimum return varies from 1.0 per cent to 5.5 per cent for 2012 and 2011, depending on the particular product, jurisdiction where issued, and date of issue.
For 2012, 86 per cent 2011: 85 per cent of the account values on xed annuities are for policies with guarantees of 3 per cent or less.
The average guarantee rate is 2.8 per cent for 2012 and 2011.
Fixed annuities also present a risk that policyholders will exercise their option to surrender their contracts in periods of rapidly rising interest rates, possibly requiring Jackson to liquidate assets at an inopportune time.
Jackson issues VA contracts where it contractually guarantees to the contract holder either: a return of no less than total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals: b total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return: or c the highest contract value on a speci ed anniversary date adjusted for any withdrawals following the speci ed contract anniversary.
These guarantees include bene ts that are payable at speci ed dates during the accumulation period Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Bene t GMWB, as death bene ts Guaranteed Minimum Death Bene ts GMDB or as income bene ts Guaranteed Minimum Income Bene ts GMIB.
These guarantees generally protect the policyholders value in the event of poor equity market performance.
Jackson hedges the GMDB and GMWB guarantees through the use of equity options and futures contracts, and fully reinsures the GMIB guarantees.
Jackson also issues xed index annuities that enable policyholders to obtain a portion of an equity-linked return while providing a guaranteed minimum return.
The guaranteed minimum returns would be of a similar nature to those described above for xed annuities.
UK insurance operations For covered business the only signi cant financial options and guarantees in the UK insurance operations arise in the with-pro ts fund.
With-pro ts products provide returns to policyholders through bonuses that are smoothed.
There are two types of bonuses annual and final.
Annual bonuses are declared once a year and, once credited, are guaranteed in accordance with the terms of the particular product.
Unlike annual bonuses, final bonuses are guaranteed only until the next bonus declaration.
The with-pro ts fund also held a provision on the Pillar I Peak 2 basis of 47 million at 31 December 2012 31 December 2011: 90 million to honour guarantees on a small number of guaranteed annuity option products.
The only material guaranteed surrender values relate to investments in the PruFund range of with-pro ts funds.
For these products the policyholder can choose to pay an additional management charge.
In return, at the selected guarantee date, the fund will be increased if necessary to a guaranteed minimum value based on the initial investment adjusted for any prior withdrawals.
The with-pro ts fund held a reserve of 52 million at 31 December 2012 31 December 2011: 59 million in respect of this guarantee.
The Groups main exposure to guaranteed annuity options in the UK is through the non-covered business of SAIF.
A provision on the Pillar I Peak 2 basis of 371 million was held in SAIF at 2012 2011: 370 million to honour the guarantees.
As described in note 1 a above, the assets and liabilities are wholly attributable to the policyholders of the fund.
Therefore the movement in the provision has no direct impact on shareholders.
Time value The value of financial options and guarantees comprises two parts.
One is given by a deterministic valuation on best estimate assumptions the intrinsic value.
The other part arises from the variability of economic outcomes in the future the time value.
Where appropriate, a full stochastic valuation has been undertaken to determine the time value of the financial options and guarantees.
The economic assumptions used for the stochastic calculations are consistent with those used for the deterministic calculations.
Assumptions speci c to the stochastic calculations re ect local market conditions and are based on a combination of actual market data, historic market data and an assessment of long-term economic conditions.
Common principles have been adopted across the Group for the stochastic asset models, for example, separate modelling of individual asset classes but with an allowance for correlation between the various asset classes.
Details of the key characteristics of each model are given in notes 17 iv, v and vi.
In deriving the time value of financial options and guarantees, management actions in response to emerging investment and fund solvency conditions have been modelled.
Management actions encompass, but are not con ned to investment allocation decisions, levels of reversionary and terminal bonuses and credited rates.
Bonus rates are projected from current levels and varied in accordance with assumed management actions applying in the emerging investment and fund solvency conditions.
In all instances, the modelled actions are in accordance with approved local practice and therefore re ect the options actually available to management.
For the PAC with-pro ts fund, the actions assumed are consistent with those set out in the Principles and Practices of Financial Management which explains how regular and final bonus rates within the discretionary framework are determined, subject to the general legislative requirements applicable.
334 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 1 Basis of preparation, methodology and accounting presentation continued ii Level of required capital In adopting the EEV Principles, Prudential has based required capital on its internal targets for economic capital subject to it being at least the local statutory minimum requirements.
Economic capital is assessed using internal models but, when applying the EEV Principles, Prudential does not take credit for the signi cant diversi cation bene ts that exist within the Group.
For with-pro ts business written in a segregated life fund, as is the case in Asia and the UK, the capital available in the fund is suf cient to meet the required capital requirements.
For shareholder-backed business the following capital requirements apply: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Asia operations: the level of required capital has been set at the higher of local statutory requirements and the economic capital requirement: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A US operations: the level of required capital has been set to an amount at least equal to 235 per cent of the risk-based capital required by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC at the Company Action Level CAL : and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A UK insurance operations: the capital requirements are set at the higher of Pillar I and Pillar II requirements for shareholder-backed business of UK insurance operations as a whole.
iii Allowance for risk and risk discount rates Overview Under the EEV Principles, discount rates used to determine the present value of future cash ows are set equal to risk-free rates plus a risk margin.
The risk margin should re ect any non-diversi able risk associated with the emergence of distributable earnings that is not allowed for elsewhere in the valuation.
Prudential has selected a granular approach to better re ect differences in market risk inherent in each product group.
The risk discount rate so derived does not re ect an overall Group market beta but instead re ects the expected volatility associated with the cash ows for each product category in the embedded value model.
Since financial options and guarantees are explicitly valued under the EEV methodology, discount rates under EEV are set excluding the effect of these product features.
The risk margin represents the aggregate of the allowance for market risk, additional allowance for credit risk where appropriate, and allowance for non-diversi able non-market risk.
No allowance is required for non-market risks where these are assumed to be fully diversi able.
Market risk allowance The allowance for market risk represents the beta multiplied by an equity risk premium.
Except for UK shareholder-backed annuity business as explained below such an approach has been used for all of the Groups businesses.
The beta of a portfolio or product measures its relative market risk.
The risk discount rates re ect the market risk inherent in each product group and hence the volatility of product cash ows.
These are determined by considering how the pro ts from each product are affected by changes in expected returns on various asset classes.
By converting this into a relative rate of return it is possible to derive a product speci c beta.
Product level betas re ect the most recent product mix to produce appropriate betas and risk discount rates for each major product grouping.
Additional credit risk allowance The Groups methodology is to allow appropriately for credit risk.
The allowance for total credit risk is to cover: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Expected long-term defaults: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Credit risk premium to re ect the volatility in downgrade and default levels : and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Short-term downgrades and defaults.
These allowances are initially re ected in determining best estimate returns and through the market risk allowance described above.
However, for those businesses which are largely backed by holdings of debt securities these allowances in the projected returns and market risk allowances may not be suf cient and an additional allowance may be appropriate.
The practical application of the allowance for credit risk varies depending upon the type of business as described below.
Asia operations For Asia operations, the allowance for credit risk incorporated in the projected rates of return and the market risk allowance are suf cient.
Accordingly, no additional allowance for credit risk is required.
In 2012, the basis of determining projected rates of return for holdings of corporate bonds was re ned so as to comprise the risk-free rate plus an assessment of long-term spread over the risk-free rate.
Previously, market spreads at the reporting date, rather than long-term spreads, were applied.
The main effects of this change are for holdings in Hong Kong, Korea, Malaysia and Singapore.
The new basis aligns with the approach for UK with-pro t holdings of corporate bonds and, more generally, is consistent with the use of long-term risk premiums for holdings of other categories of investments across the Groups operations.
EEV basis supplementary information Financial statements Notes on the EEV basis results Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 335 US operations Jackson For Jackson business, the allowance for long-term defaults is re ected in the risk margin reserve RMR charge which is deducted in determining the projected spread margin between the earned rate on the investments and the policyholder crediting rate.
The risk discount rate incorporates an additional allowance for credit risk premium and short-term downgrades and defaults.
In determining this allowance a number of factors have been considered.
These factors, in particular, include: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A How much of the credit spread on debt securities represents an increased credit risk not re ected in the RMR long-term default assumptions, and how much is liquidity premium which is the premium required by investors to compensate for the risk of longer-term investments which cannot be easily converted into cash, and converted at the fair market value.
In assessing this effect, consideration has been given to a number of approaches to estimating the liquidity premium by considering recent statistical data: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Policyholder bene ts for Jackson xed annuity business are not xed.
It is possible in adverse economic scenarios to pass on a component of credit losses to policyholders subject to guarantee features through lower investment return rates credited to policyholders.
Consequently, it is only necessary to allow for the balance of the credit risk in the risk discount rate.
After taking these and related factors into account and based on market conditions, the risk discount rate for general account business includes an additional allowance of 150 basis points 2011: 200 basis points for credit risk.
For VA business, the additional allowance has been set at onefifth equivalent to 30 basis points 2011: 40 basis points of the non-VA business to re ect the proportion of the VA business that is allocated to holdings of general account debt securities.
The level of the additional allowance is assessed at each reporting period to take account of prevailing credit conditions and as the business in force alters over time.
The level of allowance differs from that for UK annuity business for investment portfolio differences and to take account of the management actions available in adverse economic scenarios to reduce crediting rates to policyholders, subject to guarantee features of the products.
UK operations 1 Shareholder-backed annuity business For Prudentials UK shareholder-backed annuity business, Prudential has used a market consistent embedded value MCEV approach to derive an implied risk discount rate which is then applied to the projected best estimate cash ows.
In the annuity MCEV calculations, the future cash ows are discounted using the swap yield curve plus an allowance for liquidity premium based on Prudentials assessment of the expected return on the assets backing the annuity liabilities after allowing for expected long-term defaults, a credit risk premium, an allowance for a 1 notch downgrade of the portfolio subject to credit risk and an allowance for short-term defaults.
For the purposes of presentation in the EEV results, the results on this basis are recon gured.
Under this approach the projected earned rate of return on the debt securities held is determined after allowing for expected long-term defaults and, where necessary, an additional allowance for an element of short-term downgrades and defaults to bring the allowance in the earned rate up to best estimate levels.
The allowances for credit risk premium, 1 notch downgrade and the remaining element of short-term downgrade and default allowances are incorporated into the risk margin included in the discount rate, as shown in note 17 iii.
2 With-pro ts fund non-pro t annuity business For UK non-pro t annuity business including that written by Prudential Annuities Limited PAL the basis for determining the aggregate allowance for credit risk is consistent with that applied for UK shareholder-backed annuity business as described above.
The allowance for credit risk in PAL is taken into account in determining the projected cash ows to the with-pro ts fund, which are in turn discounted at the risk discount rate applicable to all of the projected cash ows of the fund.
3 With-pro ts fund holdings of debt securities The UK with-pro ts fund holds debt securities as part of its investment portfolio backing policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus.
The assumed earned rate for with-pro t holdings of corporate bonds is fide ned as the risk-free rate plus an assessment of the long-term spread over gilts, net of expected long-term defaults.
This approach is similar to that applied for equities and properties for which the projected earned rate is fide ned as the risk-free rate plus a long-term risk premium.
Allowance for non-diversi able non-market risks The majority of non-market and non-credit risks are considered to be diversi able.
Finance theory cannot be used to determine the appropriate component of beta for non-diversi able non-market risks since there is no observable risk premium associated with it that is akin to the equity risk premium.
Recognising this, a pragmatic approach has been applied.
A base level allowance of 50 basis points is applied to cover the non-diversi able non-market risks associated with the Groups businesses.
For the Groups US business and UK business other than shareholder-backed annuity, no additional allowance is necessary.
For UK shareholder-backed annuity business a further allowance of 50 basis points is used to re ect the longevity risk which is of particular relevance.
For the Groups Asia operations in China, India, Indonesia, the Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam, additional allowances are applied for emerging market risk ranging from 100 to 250 basis points.
iv With-profi ts business and the treatment of the estate The proportion of surplus allocated to shareholders from the PAC with-pro ts fund has been based on the present level of 10 per cent.
The value attributed to the shareholders interest in the estate is derived by increasing final bonus rates and related shareholder transfers so as to exhaust the estate over the lifetime of the in-force with-pro ts business.
In any scenarios where the total assets of the life fund are insuf cient to meet policyholder claims in full, the excess cost is fully attributed to shareholders.
Similar principles apply, where appropriate, for other with-pro ts funds of the Groups Asia operations.
336 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 1 Basis of preparation, methodology and accounting presentation continued v Debt capital Core structural debt liabilities are carried at market value.
As the liabilities are generally held to maturity or for the long term, no deferred tax asset or liability has been established on the difference, compared to the IFRS carrying value.
Accordingly, no deferred tax credit or charge is recorded in the results for the reporting period in respect of the mark to market value adjustment.
vi Foreign currency translation Foreign currency pro ts and losses have been translated at average exchange rates for the year.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities have been translated at year end rates of exchange.
The purpose of translating the pro ts and losses at average exchange rates, notwithstanding the fact that EEV pro t represents the incremental value added on a discounted cash ow basis, is to maintain consistency with the methodology applied for IFRS basis reporting.
c Accounting presentation i Analysis of profi t before tax To the extent applicable, the presentation of the EEV pro t for the year is consistent with the basis that the Group applies for analysis of IFRS basis pro ts before shareholder taxes between operating and non-operating results.
Operating results re ect the underlying results including longer-term investment returns which are determined as described in note 1 c ii below and incorporate the following: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A New business contribution, as fide ned in note 1 b i : A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Unwind of discount on the value of in-force business and other expected returns, as described in note 1 c iv below: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The impact of routine changes of estimates relating to non-economic assumptions, as described in note 1 c iii below: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Non-economic experience variances, as described in note 1 c v below.
Non-operating results comprise the recurrent items of short-term uctuations in investment returns, the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on fide ned bene t pension schemes, the mark to market value movements on core borrowings and the effect of changes in economic assumptions.
In addition, for 2012 the gain recognised on the acquisition of REALIC and the gain on dilution of the Group holdings in PPM South Africa have been shown separately from operating pro ts based on longer-term investment returns.
ii Operating profi t For the investment element of the assets covering the net worth of long-term insurance business, investment returns are recognised in operating results at the expected long-term rate of return.
These expected returns are calculated by reference to the asset mix of the portfolio.
For the purpose of calculating the longer-term investment return to be included in the operating result of the PAC with-pro ts fund of UK operations, where assets backing the liabilities and unallocated surplus are subject to market volatility, asset values at the beginning of the reporting period are adjusted to remove the effects of short-term market movements as explained in note 1 c iv below.
For the purpose of determining the long-term returns for debt securities of US operations for xed annuity and other general account business, a risk margin charge is included which re ects the expected long-term rate of default based on the credit quality of the portfolio.
For Jackson, interest-related realised gains and losses are amortised to the operating results over the maturity period of the sold bonds and for equity-related investments, a long-term rate of return is assumed, which re ects the aggregation of end of year risk-free rates and equity risk premium.
For US variable annuity separate account business, operating pro t includes the unwind of discount on the opening value of in-force adjusted to re ect end of year projected rates of return with the excess or fide cit of the actual return recognised within non-operating pro t, together with the related hedging activity.
For UK annuity business, rebalancing of the asset portfolio backing the liabilities to policyholders may, from time to time, take place to align it more closely with the internal benchmark of credit quality that management applies.
Such rebalancing will result in a change in the projected yield on the asset portfolio and the allowance for default risk.
The net effect of these changes is included in the result for the year.
iii Eff ect of changes in operating assumptions Operating pro t includes the effect of changes to operating assumptions on the value of in-force at the end of the period.
For presentational purposes, the effect of change is delineated to show the effect on the opening value of in-force with the experience variance being determined by reference to the end of period assumptions.
iv Unwind of discount and other expected returns The unwind of discount and other expected returns is determined by reference to the value of in-force business, required capital and surplus assets at the start of the period as adjusted for the effect of changes in economic and operating assumptions re ected in the current period.
For UK insurance operations the amount included within operating results based on longer-term investment returns represents the unwind of discount on the value of in-force business at the beginning of the period adjusted for the effect of current period assumption changes, the unwind of discount on additional value representing the shareholders share of smoothed surplus assets retained within the PAC with-pro ts fund as explained in note 1 c ii above, and the expected return on shareholders assets held in other UK long-term business operations.
Surplus assets retained within the PAC with-pro ts fund are smoothed for this purpose to remove the effects of short-term investment volatility from operating results.
In the summary statement of financial position and for total pro t reporting, asset values and investment returns are not smoothed.
At 31 December 2012, the shareholders interest in the smoothed surplus assets used for this purpose only, were 121 million lower 31 December 2011: 39 million higher than the surplus assets carried in the statement of financial position.
EEV basis supplementary information Financial statements Notes on the EEV basis results Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 337 v Operating experience variances Operating pro ts include the effect of experience variances on non-economic assumptions, which are calculated with reference to the embedded value assumptions at the end of the reporting year, such as persistency, mortality and morbidity, expenses and other factors.
Further details of these assumptions are shown in notes 17 vii, viii and ix.
vi Pension costs Profi t before tax Movements on the shareholders share of surpluses to the extent not restricted by IFRIC 14 and fide cits of the Groups fide ned bene t pension schemes adjusted for contributions paid in the year are recorded within the income statement.
Consistent with the basis of distribution of bonuses and the treatment of the estate described in notes 1 b i and iv, the shareholders share incorporates 10 per cent of the proportion of the financial position attributable to the PAC with-pro ts fund.
The financial position is determined by applying the requirements of IAS 19.
Actuarial and other gains and losses of defi ned benefi t pension schemes For the Groups fide ned bene t pension schemes the EEV results re ect the IAS 19 position booked for IFRS reporting.
Consistent with this approach, to the extent of recognition of any surplus, the actuarial and other gains and losses include: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The difference between actual and expected return on the scheme assets: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The impact of altered economic and other assumptions on the discounted value of scheme liabilities: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A For pension schemes where the IAS 19 position re ects a fide cit funding obligation, actuarial and other gains and losses includes the movement in estimates of fide cit funding requirements.
In addition, this item includes the effect of partial recognition of the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme surplus that arose in 2012.
This partial recognition re ects the impact of the 5 April 2011 triennial valuation that was completed in 2012.
Under that valuation there was suf cient actuarial surplus to permit a reduction in employer contributions to the minimum level under the trust deed rules, thereby allowing recoverability of part of the surplus in future years.
These items are recorded in the income statement but, consistent with the IFRS basis of presentation, are excluded from operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
vii Eff ect of changes in economic assumptions Movements in the value of in-force business at the beginning of the period caused by changes in economic assumptions, net of the related change in the time value of cost of option and guarantees, are recorded in non-operating results.
viii Taxation The pro t for the year for covered business is in most cases calculated initially at the post-tax level.
The post-tax pro t for covered business is then grossed up for presentation purposes at the rates of tax applicable to the countries and periods concerned.
In the UK, the rate applied for 2012 is 23 per cent 2011: 25 per cent.
For Jackson, the US federal tax rate of 35 per cent is applied to gross up movements on the value of in-force business.
The overall tax rate includes the impact of tax effects determined on a local regulatory basis.
For Asia, similar principles apply subject to the availability of taxable pro ts.
Tax payments and receipts included in the projected cash ows to determine the value of in-force business are calculated using rates that have been substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Possible future changes of rate are not anticipated.
See note 17 ix for further details.
ix Inter-company arrangements The EEV results for covered business incorporate the effect of the reinsurance arrangement of non-pro t immediate pension annuity liabilities of SAIF which is not covered business to PRIL.
In addition, the analysis of free surplus and value of in-force business takes account of the impact of contingent loan arrangements between Group companies.
x Foreign exchange rates Foreign currency results have been translated as discussed in note 1 b vi, for which the principal exchange rates are as follows: Closing rate at Average rate Closing rate at Average rate Opening rate Local currency: 31 Dec 2012 for 2012 31 Dec 2011 for 2011 at 1 Jan 2011 China 10.13 10.00 9.78 10.37 10.32 Hong Kong 12.60 12.29 12.07 12.48 12.17 India 89.06 84.70 82.53 74.80 70.01 Indonesia 15,665.76 14,842.01 14,091.80 14,049.41 14,106.51 Korea 1,740.22 1,785.07 1,790.32 1,775.98 1,776.86 Malaysia 4.97 4.89 4.93 4.90 4.83 Singapore 1.99 1.98 2.02 2.02 2.01 Taiwan 47.20 46.88 47.06 47.12 45.65 Vietnam 33,875.42 33,083.59 32,688.16 33,139.22 30,526.26 US 1.63 1.58 1.55 1.60 1.57 338 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 2 Analysis of new business contribution 2012 Annual Present value premium and of new New business premiums New business margin contribution business Pre-tax new equivalents premiums business Single Regular APE PVNBP contribution APE PVNBP m m m m m % % Asia operations 1,568 1,740 1,897 10,544 1,266 67 12.0 US operations 14,504 12 1,462 14,600 873 60 6.0 UK insurance operations 6,286 207 836 7,311 313 37 4.3 Total 22,358 1,959 4,195 32,455 2,452 58 7.6 2011 Annual Present value premium and of new New business premiums New business margin contribution business Pre-tax new equivalents premiums business Single Regular APE PVNBP contribution APE PVNBP m m m m m % % Asia operations 1,456 1,514 1,660 8,910 1,076 65 12.1 US operations 12,562 19 1,275 12,720 815 64 6.4 UK insurance operations 4,871 259 746 6,111 260 35 4.3 Total 18,889 1,792 3,681 27,741 2,151 58 7.8 New business contribution 2012 m 2011 m Asia operations: China 26 27 Hong Kong 210 218 India 19 20 Indonesia 476 314 Korea 26 43 Taiwan 48 28 Other 461 426 Total Asia operations 1,266 1,076 EEV basis supplementary information Financial statements Notes on the EEV basis results Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 339 3 Operating profi t from business in force i Group summary 2012 m UK Asia US insurance operations operations operations Total note ii note iii note iv Unwind of discount and other expected returns 599 412 482 1,493 Effect of changes in operating assumptions 20 35 87 142 Experience variances and other items 75 290 16 349 Total 694 737 553 1,984 2011 m UK Asia US insurance operations operations operations Total note ii note iii note iv Unwind of discount and other expected returns 613 349 485 1,447 Effect of changes in operating assumptions 10 14 79 103 Experience variances and other items 65 253 29 347 Total 688 616 593 1,897 As shown below.
ii Asia operations 2012 m 2011 m note a Unwind of discount and other expected returns 599 613 Effect of changes in operating assumptions: note b Mortality and morbidity 94 126 note c Persistency and withdrawals 34 140 note d Expense 48 11 Other 8 13 20 10 Experience variance and other items: note e Mortality and morbidity 57 58 note f Persistency and withdrawals 50 10 note g Expense 30 31 note h Other 2 28 75 65 Total Asia operations 694 688 Notes a The decrease in unwind of discount and other expected returns of 14 million from 613 million in 2011 to 599 million in 2012 mainly refl ects the 43 million eff ect of lower risk discount rates driven by the reduction in interest rates, partly off set by the 29 million eff ect of the growth in the opening in-force value adjusted for assumption changes, on which the discount rates are applied.
b The credit of 94 million in 2012 for mortality and morbidity assumption changes primarily refl ects mortality improvements in Hong Kong and Singapore and revised assumptions for critical illness business in Singapore in line with recent experience.
In 2011, the 126 million refl ected 69 million arising in Malaysia, 33 million in Indonesia and a net 24 million for other operations.
c The charge of 140 million for 2011 principally arose in Malaysia for partial withdrawals.
The 2012 charge refl ects a number of off setting items including further adjustments to partial withdrawals in Malaysia.
d The charge of 48 million for expense assumption changes in 2012 principally arises in Malaysia and refl ects changes to the pension entitlements of agents.
e The favourable eff ect of mortality and morbidity experience in 2012 of 57 million 2011: 58 million refl ects continued better than expected experience, principally arising in Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore.
f The positive persistency and withdrawals experience variance of 50 million in 2012 2011: 10 million refl ects a combination of favourable experience in Hong Kong and Indonesia.
g The negative expense experience variance of 30 million in 2012 2011: 31 million principally refl ects expense overruns for operations which are currently sub-scale China, Malaysia Takaful and Taiwan and in India where the business model is being adapted in response to the regulatory changes introduced in recent years.
h The charge of 2 million in 2012 for other items refl ects the broadly off setting eff ects of the realised gain on the sale of the Groups 7.74 per cent stake in China Life of Taiwan and charges for other non-recurrent items.
340 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 3 Operating profi t from business in force continued iii US operations 2012 m 2011 m note a Unwind of discount and other expected returns 412 349 Effect of changes in operating assumptions: note b Persistency 45 29 note c Variable annuity VA fees 19 24 note d Mortality 33 36 note e Other 24 3 35 14 Experience variances and other items: note f Spread experience variance 205 152 note g Amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses 91 84 Other 6 17 290 253 Total US operations 737 616 Notes a The increase in unwind of discount and other expected returns of 63 million from 349 million for 2011 to 412 million for 2012 includes the 67 million eff ect of the increase in opening value of in-force business aft er economic assumption changes, an impact of 19 million relating to the post-acquisition unwind of discount for REALIC, partly off set by the 23 million eff ect of lower risk discount rates driven by the 0.1 per cent reduction in the 10-year US treasury rate together with the decrease in additional allowance for credit risk as explained in note 1 b iii.
b The eff ect of changes in persistency assumptions of 45 million in 2012 primarily relate to VA business.
c The eff ect of the change of assumption for VA fees represents the capitalised value of the change in the projected level of policyholder advisory fees, which vary according to the current size and mix of VA funds.
d The credit of 33 million in 2012 for the eff ect of updated mortality assumptions principally relates to life business, representing a credit of 86 million for the modelling of projected mortality improvement, partially off set by a charge of 53 million for other regular mortality updates to refl ect recent experience.
In 2011, the charge of 36 million for updated mortality assumptions primarily arose on variable annuity business.
e The charge of 24 million in 2012 for other operating assumption changes includes a charge of 12 million for the impact of altered assumptions for Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefi t utilisation and 12 million for other items.
f The spread assumption for Jackson is determined on a longer-term basis, net of provision for defaults.
The spread experience variance in 2012 of 205 million 2011: 152 million includes the positive eff ect of transactions undertaken to more closely match the overall asset and liability duration.
g The amortisation of interest-related gains and losses refl ects the fact that when bonds that are neither impaired nor deteriorating are sold and reinvested there will be a consequent change in the investment yield.
The realised gain or loss is amortised into the result over the period when the bonds would have otherwise matured to better refl ect the long-term returns included in operating profi ts.
iv UK insurance operations 2012 m 2011 m note a Unwind of discount and other expected returns 482 485 note b Effect of change in UK corporate tax rate 87 79 note c Other items 16 29 Total UK insurance operations 553 593 Notes a The decrease in unwind of discount and other expected returns of 3 million from 485 million in 2011 to 482 million for 2012 refl ects the 17 million eff ect of lower risk discount rates driven by the reduction in interest rates, partly off set by the 14 million eff ect of an increase in the opening in-force value aft er economic assumption changes on which the discount rates are applied.
b The eff ect of the change in tax rate of 87 million in 2012 represents the benefi t of the reduction in tax rate from 25 per cent to 23 per cent.
Consistent with the Groups approach of grossing up the movement in the net of tax value of in-force for shareholder tax, the 87 million benefi t is presented gross 2011: 79 million, 27 per cent to 25 per cent.
c Other items in 2012 of 16 million includes a charge of 52 million for the strengthening of mortality assumptions, net of reserve releases and the eff ects of portfolio rebalancing for annuity business.
EEV basis supplementary information Financial statements Notes on the EEV basis results Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 341 4 Changes to Groups holdings PPM South Africa On 22 February 2012, M&G completed transactions to i exchange bonus share rights for equity holdings with the employees of PPM South Africa, and ii the sale of a 10 per cent holding in the majority of the business to Thesele Group, a minority shareholder, for cash.
Following these transactions M&Gs majority holding in the business reduced from 75 per cent to 49.99 per cent.
Under IFRS requirements, the divestment is accounted for as the disposal of the 75 per cent holding and an acquisition of a 49.99 per cent holding at fair value resulting in a reclassi cation of PPM South Africa from a subsidiary to an associate.
As a consequence of the IFRS application, the transactions gave rise to a gain on dilution of 42 million.
Consistent with the Groups treatment for IFRS reporting, this amount has been treated as a gain on dilution of holdings which is shown separately from operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns in the Groups supplementary analysis of pro t. 5 Acquisition of Reassure America Life Insurance Company REALIC On 4 September 2012, the Group through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Jackson National Life Insurance Company, completed the acquisition of 100 per cent issued share capital of SRLC America Holding Corp. SRLC, and its primary operating subsidiary, Reassure America Life Insurance Company REALIC.
The purchase consideration, which remains subject to final agreement under the terms of the transaction with Swiss Re, is 370 million US$587 million.
The Embedded value of REALIC on the date of acquisition, calculated in accordance with the Groups methodology and assumptions as set out in note 1 was 823 million.
The acquisition increases the scale of the Groups life business in the US, helping Jackson to diversify earnings by increasing the amount of income from underwriting activities thereby enhancing the quality of earnings in a capital ef cient manner.
The earnings of REALIC are derived from seasoned, long duration cash ows, generated principally from term life, whole life and basic universal life products.
The gain arising from the acquisition of REALIC is excluded from the Groups EEV operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns and is calculated as follows: Total EEV 2012 m note ii note i Embedded value of acquired business 823 Total purchase consideration 370 Gain arising on acquisition 453 Notes i The embedded value of the acquired business has been determined by applying the same methodology as applied for Jacksons non-variable annuity business.
A risk discount rate of 4.3 per cent at the date of acquisition on 4 September 2012 has been used.
ii The amounts shown above have been translated at the 4 September 2012 exchange rate of US$1.59.
6 Short-term fl uctuations in investment returns Short-term uctuations in investment returns, net of the related change in the time value of cost of options and guarantees, arise as follows: i Group summary 2012 m 2011 m Insurance operations: note ii Asia 395 155 note iii US 254 491 note iv UK 315 141 456 787 Other operations: note v Economic hedge value movement 32 note vi Other 114 120 Total 538 907 342 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 6 Short-term fl uctuations in investment returns continued ii Asia operations For 2012, the positive short-term uctuations in investment returns of 395 million in Asia operations were driven by unrealised gains on bonds and higher equity markets, principally arising in Hong Kong of 139 million mainly relating to positive returns on bonds backing participating business, Singapore of 114 million, primarily relating to increasing future expected fee income for unit-linked business and unrealised gains on bonds, Taiwan of 56 million for unrealised gains on bonds and CDOs and India of 30 million.
For 2011, short-term uctuations in investment returns of 155 million were driven by lower equity markets reducing future expected fee income, mainly arising in Singapore of 105 million and Korea of 22 million.
The 2011 short-term uctuations in investment returns also included 28 million of adverse variance arising in other territories.
This principally comprises uctuations arising in India of 53 million re ecting lower equity market returns, in Vietnam of 33 million for unrealised losses on bonds and equities and Taiwan of 30 million for losses on bonds and CDOs, partially offset by a credit in Hong Kong of 96 million primarily relating to positive returns on bonds backing participating business.
iii US operations The short-term uctuations in investment returns for US operations comprise the following items: 2012 m 2011 m note a Investment return related experience on xed income securities 99 74 Investment return related impact due primarily to changed expectation of pro ts on in-force variable annuity business in future periods based on current period equity returns, net of related hedging note b activity for equity related products 183 418 Actual less long-term return on equity based investments and other items 28 1 Total Jackson 254 491 Notes a The charge relating to fi xed income securities comprises the following elements: the excess of actual realised losses over the amortisation of interest related realised gains and losses recorded in the profi t and loss account: credit loss experience versus the longer-term assumption : and the impact of fide-risking activities within the portfolio.
b This item refl ects the net impact of: variances in projected future fees arising from the eff ect of market fl uctuations on the growth in separate account asset values in the current reporting period: and related hedging activity.
In 2012, there was a 14.8 per cent rate of return for the variable annuity separate account assets compared with an assumed longer-term rate of return of 5.3 per cent.
Consequently, the asset values and therefore projected future fees at 31 December 2012 were higher than assumed.
However, net of the impact of related hedging eff ects there is a short-term fl uctuation of 183 million.
In 2011, there was a negative 0.5 per cent rate of return for the variable annuity separate account assets.
This compared with an assumed longer-term rate of return of 5.4 per cent.
Consequently, the asset values and therefore projected future fees at 31 December 2011 were lower than assumed.
iv UK insurance operations The short-term uctuations in investment returns for UK insurance operations arise from the following types of business: 2012 m 2011 m note a With-pro ts 285 201 note b Shareholder-backed annuity 3 56 Unit-linked and other 33 4 315 141 Notes a For with-profi ts business the amounts refl ect the excess defi cit of the actual investment return on the investments of the PAC with-profi ts fund covering policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus against the assumed long-term rate for the year.
For 2012, the credit of 285 million refl ects the actual investment return of 9.8 per cent against the assumed long-term rate of 5.0 per cent for the year.
For 2011, the charge of 201 million refl ects the actual investment return of 3.2 per cent against the assumed long-term rate of 5.1 per cent, primarily refl ecting the fall in equity markets and widening of corporate bond credit spreads, partially off set by the increase in asset values as a result of the reduction in bond yields.
b Short-term fl uctuations in investment returns for shareholder-backed annuity business comprise: 1 gains on surplus assets refl ecting reductions in corporate bond and gilt yields: 2 the diff erence between actual and expected default experience: and 3 the eff ect of mismatching for assets and liabilities of diff erent durations and other short-term fl uctuations in investment returns.
v Economic hedge value movements This item represents the costs on short-dated hedge contracts taken out in the first half of 2012 to provide downside protection against severe equity market falls through a period of particular uncertainty with respect to the Eurozone.
The hedge contracts were terminated in the second half of 2012. vi Other Short-term uctuations of Other operations in 2012 of 114 million primarily represent unrealised fair value movements on Prudential Capitals bond portfolio.
Short-term uctuations of Other operations in 2011 of 120 million represent unrealised value movements on investments, including centrally held swaps to manage foreign exchange and certain macroeconomic exposures of the Group.
EEV basis supplementary information Financial statements Notes on the EEV basis results Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 343 7 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defi ned benefi t pension schemes The credit for the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses comprises: 2012 m 2011 m IFRS basis 50 21 note 1 c vi Additional shareholders interest 12 2 EEV basis total 62 23 8 Eff ect of changes in economic assumptions The effect of changes in economic assumptions for in-force business, net of the related change in the time value of cost of options and guarantees, included within pro t before tax including actual investment returns arise as follows: i Group summary 2012 m 2011 m note ii Asia operations 149 279 note iii US operations 85 144 note iv UK insurance operations 48 293 Total 16 158 ii Asia operations The effect of changes in economic assumptions for Asia operations in 2012 of 149 million principally arises in Hong Kong of 320 million, primarily re ecting the effect on projected cash ows of fide-risking the asset portfolio and the reduction in fund earned rates on participating business, driven by the very low interest rate environment, and in Vietnam of 47 million, following the fall in bond yields.
There are partial offsets which in total are 218 million, principally arising in Malaysia and Indonesia, mainly re ecting the positive impact of discounting projected health and protection pro ts at lower rates, driven by the decrease in risk discount rates.
The effect of changes in economic assumptions for 2011 of a credit of 279 million principally arose in Singapore of 160 million, Malaysia of 97 million and Indonesia of 94 million, primarily re ecting the positive impact of discounting projected health and protection pro ts at lower rates, driven by the decrease in risk-free rates.
There is a partial offset arising in Hong Kong of 57 million, primarily re ecting the reduction in fund earned rates for participating business.
iii US operations The effect of changes in economic assumptions for US operations re ects the following: 2012 m 2011 m note a Effect of changes in 10-year treasury rates, beta and equity risk premium: Fixed annuity and other general account business 20 282 Variable annuity VA business 83 333 note b Decrease increase in additional allowance for credit risk 148 93 85 144 Notes a For Jackson, the eff ect of changes in economic assumptions represents the aggregate of the eff ects of changes to projected returns and the risk discount rate.
The risk discount rate, as discussed in note 1 b iii, represents the aggregate of the risk-free rate and margin for market risk, credit risk and non-diversifi able non-market risk.
For fi xed annuity and other general account business the eff ect of changes to the risk-free rate, which is defi ned as the 10-year treasury rate, is refl ected in the risk discount rate.
This discount rate is in turn applied to projected cash fl ows which principally refl ect projected spread, which is largely insensitive to changes in the risk-free rate.
Secondary eff ects on the cash fl ows also result from changes to assumed future yield and resulting policyholder behaviour.
For VA business, changes to the risk-free rate are also refl ected in determining the risk discount rate.
However, the projected cash fl ows are also reassessed for altered investment returns on the underlying separate account assets on which fees are charged.
In 2012, for fi xed annuity and other general account business the credit of 20 million principally arises from the eff ect of a lower discount rate on the opening value of the in-force book, driven by the 10 basis points reduction in the risk-free rate as shown in note 17 ii, partially off set by the eff ect for the acquired REALIC book, refl ecting the 20 basis point increase in the risk-free rate from the 4 September acquisition date.
For 2011, the credit of 282 million refl ected the 140 basis points reduction in the risk-free rate.
For VA business, the charge of 83 million 2011: 333 million refl ects the 10 basis points reduction 2011: a reduction of 140 basis points in the risk-free rate as shown in note 17 ii.
b For 2012, the 148 million eff ect of the decrease in the additional allowance within the risk discount rate for credit risk refl ects the reduction in credit spreads and represents a 50 basis points decrease for spread business, including the acquired REALIC business from 200 basis points in 2011 to 150 basis points in 2012, and 10 basis points decrease for VA business from 40 basis points in 2011 to 30 basis points in 2012, representing the proportion of business invested in the general account as described in note 1 b iii.
For 2011, the eff ect of 93 million for the increase in the risk margin allowance within the risk discount rate for credit risk represented a 50 basis points increase for spread business and 10 basis points increase for VA business.
344 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 8 Eff ect of changes in economic assumptions continued iv UK insurance operations The effect of changes in economic assumptions of a credit of 48 million for UK insurance operations for 2012 comprises the effect of: 2012 m 2011 m note a Shareholder-backed annuity business Effect of change in: Expected long-term rates of return, risk discount rates and other changes 140 278 note b Tax regime 46 94 278 note c With-pro ts and other business Effect of changes in expected long-term rates of return 62 1,113 Effect of changes in risk discount rates 24 627 Other changes 8 84 46 570 48 292 Notes a For shareholder-backed annuity business the overall eff ect of changes in expected long-term rates of return and risk discount rates for the years shown above refl ect the combined eff ects of the changes in economic assumptions, which incorporate a default allowance for both best estimate defaults and in respect of the additional credit risk provisions as shown in note 17 iii.
b The change in the insurance tax regime was enacted on 17 July 2012.
The eff ect of 46 million refl ects the change in pattern of taxable profi ts for shareholder-backed annuity business arising from the acceleration of tax payments due to the altered timing of relief on regulatory basis provisions.
c For with-profi ts and other business the total charge in 2012 of 46 million refl ects the changes in fund earned rates and risk discount rate as shown in note 17 iii, driven by the 20 basis points decrease in the gilt rate.
For 2011, the charge of 1,113 million for the eff ect of changes in expected long-term rates of return arises from the reduction in fund earned rates, driven by the 1.5 per cent decrease in gilt rates and reduction in additional returns assumed on corporate bonds, refl ecting changes in asset mix.
The credit of 627 million for the eff ect of changes in risk discount rates refl ects the 1.35 per cent reduction in the risk discount rate, driven by the 1.5 per cent decrease in gilt rates, partly off set by the impact of an increase in beta for with-profi ts business.
Beta allowances are explained in note 1 b iii.
EEV basis supplementary information Financial statements Notes on the EEV basis results Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 345 9 Analysis of movement in free surplus Free surplus is the excess of the net worth over the capital required to support the covered business.
Where appropriate, adjustments are made to the regulatory basis net worth from the local regulatory basis so as to include backing assets movements at fair value rather than cost so as to comply with the EEV Principles.
2012 m Free surplus of long-term Asset business, asset management management and UK and UK general general Long-term insurance insurance business commission commission note i Long-term business and asset management operations note 14 note iii Underlying movement: note ii Investment in new business 618 618 Business in force: Expected in-force cash ows including expected return on net assets 2,019 386 2,405 Effects of changes in operating assumptions, operating experience variances and other operating items 295 295 1,696 386 2,082 note iv Changes in non-operating items 163 84 79 note 4 Gain on dilution of Groups holdings 42 42 notes 5 and v Effect of acquisition of REALIC 169 169 1,364 512 1,876 note vi Net cash ows to parent company 921 279 1,200 note vii Exchange movements, timing differences and other items 325 83 408 Net movement in free surplus 118 150 268 Balance at 1 January 2012 2,839 582 3,421 Balance at 31 December 2012 2,957 732 3,689 Representing: Asia operations 974 207 1,181 US operations 1,211 108 1,319 UK operations 772 417 1,189 2,957 732 3,689 Balance at 1 January 2012 Representing: Asia operations 1,067 211 1,278 US operations 1,220 113 1,333 UK operations 552 258 810 2,839 582 3,421 Notes i All fi gures are shown net of tax.
ii Free surplus invested in new business is for the eff ects of setting aside required capital and incurring acquisition costs.
iii For the purposes of this analysis, free surplus for asset management operations and the UK general insurance commission is taken to be IFRS basis shareholders equity.
iv Changes in non-operating items This represents short-term fl uctuations in investment returns, the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defi ned benefi t pension schemes and the eff ect of changes in economic assumptions for long-term business operations.
Short-term fl uctuations in investment returns primarily refl ect temporary market movements on the portfolio of investments held by the Groups shareholder-backed operations.
v The eff ect on free surplus of the purchase of REALIC refl ects the diff erence between the consideration of 370 million and the free surplus of REALIC at the acquisition date.
vi Net cash fl ows to parent company for long-term business operations refl ect the fl ows as included in the holding company cash fl ow at transaction rates.
346 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 9 Analysis of movement in free surplus continued vii Exchange movements, timing diff erences and other items represent: 2012 m Asset management and UK general Long-term insurance business commission Total note 14 Exchange movements 92 13 105 note 14 Mark to market value movements on Jackson assets backing surplus and required capital 35 35 note viii Other 268 70 338 325 83 408 viii Other primarily refl ects the eff ect of repayment of contingent loan funding, as shown in note 14 ii, together with intra-group loans, timing diff erences and other non-cash items.
10 Net core structural borrowings of shareholder-fi nanced operations 31 December 2012 m 31 December 2011 m Mark to EEV Mark to EEV market basis at market basis at value market value market IFRS basis adjustment value IFRS basis adjustment value note note Holding company cash and short-term investments 1,380 1,380 1,200 1,200 Core structural borrowings central funds 3,126 536 3,662 3,201 187 3,388 Holding company net borrowings 1,746 536 2,282 2,001 187 2,188 Core structural borrowings Prudential Capital 275 275 250 250 Core structural borrowings Jackson 153 43 196 160 17 177 Net core structural borrowings of shareholdernanced operations 2,174 579 2,753 2,411 204 2,615 Including central fi finance subsidiaries.
Note The movement in the mark to market value adjustment represents: 31 December 31 December Mark to market movement in balance sheet: 2012 m 2011 m Beginning of year 204 190 Change re ected in: Income statement 380 14 Foreign exchange effects 5 End of year 579 204 EEV basis supplementary information Financial statements Notes on the EEV basis results Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 347 11 Reconciliation of movement in shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests 2012 m Long-term business operations Total UK long-term Asia US insurance business Other Group operations operations operations operations operations total note i note i Operating profi t based on longer-term investment returns Long-term business: note 2 New business 1,266 873 313 2,452 2,452 note 3 Business in force 694 737 553 1,984 1,984 1,960 1,610 866 4,436 4,436 Asset management 485 485 Other results 7 2 29 38 562 600 Operating profi t based on longer-term investment returns 1,953 1,608 837 4,398 77 4,321 note 6 Short-term uctuations in investment returns 395 254 315 456 82 538 Mark to market value movements on core note 10 borrowings 28 28 352 380 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on fide ned bene t pension note 7 schemes 16 16 78 62 note 8 Effect of changes in economic assumptions 149 85 48 16 16 note 4 Gain on dilution of Groups holdings 42 42 note 5 Gain on acquisition of REALIC 453 453 453 Profi t before tax including actual investment returns 2,199 1,864 1,184 5,247 227 5,020 Tax charge credit attributable to shareholders note 12 pro t: Tax on operating pro t 420 513 168 1,101 44 1,145 Tax on short-term uctuations in investment returns 60 91 72 41 3 44 Tax on shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on fide ned bene t pension schemes 4 4 18 14 Tax on effect of changes in economic assumptions 36 29 11 4 4 Total tax charge 444 451 247 1,142 65 1,207 Profi t loss for the year 1,755 1,413 937 4,105 292 3,813 Other movements Exchange movements on foreign operations and net investment hedges, net of tax 271 252 523 54 469 Intra-group dividends including statutory note ii transfers 544 252 207 1,003 1,003 note ii Investment in operations 4 4 4 External dividends 655 655 Reserve movements in respect of share-based payments 42 42 Other transfers 8 6 16 2 2 Treasury shares movements 23 23 New share capital subscribed 17 17 Mark to market value movements on Jackson assets backing surplus and required capital net of tax 35 35 35 Net increase in shareholders equity 952 950 714 2,616 190 2,806 note i Shareholders equity at 1 January 2012 8,510 5,082 6,058 19,650 13 19,637 note i Shareholders equity at 31 December 2012 9,462 6,032 6,772 22,266 177 22,443 348 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 11 Reconciliation of movement in shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests continued 2012 m Long-term business operations Total UK long-term Asia US insurance business Other Group operations operations operations operations operations total note i note i Representing: Statutory IFRS basis shareholders equity 2,290 4,343 3,008 9,641 718 10,359 Additional retained pro t loss on an EEV note iii basis 7,172 1,689 3,764 12,625 541 12,084 EEV basis shareholders equity 9,462 6,032 6,772 22,266 177 22,443 Balance at 1 January 2012 Representing: Statutory IFRS basis shareholders equity 2,071 3,761 2,552 8,384 180 8,564 Additional retained pro t loss on an EEV note iii basis 6,439 1,321 3,506 11,266 193 11,073 EEV basis shareholders equity 8,510 5,082 6,058 19,650 13 19,637 Notes i For the purposes of the table above, goodwill related to Asia long-term operations is included in Other operations.
ii Intra-group dividends including statutory transfers represent dividends that have been declared in the year and amounts accrued in respect of statutory transfers.
For long-term business operations, the diff erence between the net amount of 999 million for intra-group dividends including statutory transfers and investment in operations shown above and the net cash fl ows to parent company of 921 million as shown in note 9 primarily relates to intra-group loans, timing diff erences arising on statutory transfers and other non-cash items.
iii The additional retained profi t on an EEV basis for Other operations primarily represents the mark to market value adjustment for holding company net borrowings of a charge of 536 million 2011: 187 million as shown in note 10.
EEV basis supplementary information Financial statements Notes on the EEV basis results Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 349 12 Tax attributable to shareholders profi t The tax charge comprises: 2012 m 2011 m Tax charge on operating profi t based on longer-term investment returns: Long-term business: Asia operations 420 402 US operations 513 487 UK insurance operations 168 221 1,101 1,110 Other operations 44 66 Total tax charge on operating profi t based on longer-term investment returns 1,145 1,044 Tax charge credit on items not included in operating profi t: Tax charge credit on short-term uctuations in investment returns 44 210 Tax charge on shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on fide ned bene t pension schemes 14 6 Tax charge credit on effect of changes in economic assumptions 4 64 Total tax charge credit on items not included in operating pro t 62 268 Tax charge on profi t attributable to shareholders including tax on actual investment returns 1,207 776 13 Earnings per share EPS 2012 m 2011 m Operating Total Operating Total Pro t before tax 4,321 5,020 3,978 2,922 Tax 1,145 1,207 1,044 776 Non-controlling interests 4 4 Pro t after tax and non-controlling interests 3,176 3,813 2,930 2,142 EPS pence 125.0p 150.1p 115.7p 84.6p Average number of shares millions 2,541 2,541 2,533 2,533 Total profi t in 2012 includes a gain of 453 million relating to the acquisition of REALIC see note 5.
350 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Notes on the EEV basis results continued note i 14 Reconciliation of net worth and value of in-force for long-term business 2012 m Total Value of long-term Free Required Total net in-force business surplus capital worth business operations note 9 note vi Group Shareholders equity at 1 January 2012 2,839 3,447 6,286 13,364 19,650 notes iii, iv New business contribution 618 454 164 1,955 1,791 Existing business transfer to net worth 1,923 324 1,599 1,599 Expected return on existing business 96 85 181 929 1,110 Changes in operating assumptions and experience variances 295 50 345 51 396 Changes in non-operating assumptions and experience variances 163 109 54 409 355 notes 5 and v Gain on acquisition of REALIC 169 169 453 453 Profi t aft er tax from long-term business 1,364 543 1,907 2,198 4,105 Exchange movements on foreign operations and net investment hedges 92 92 184 339 523 Intra-group dividends including statutory transfers and note ii investment in operations 1,187 1,187 188 999 Mark to market value movements on Jackson assets backing surplus and required capital 35 35 35 Other transfers from net worth 2 2 2 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2012 2,957 3,898 6,855 15,411 22,266 Representing: Asia operations Shareholders equity at 1 January 2012 1,067 860 1,927 6,583 8,510 note iv New business contribution 292 97 195 1,177 982 Existing business transfer to net worth 635 3 632 632 Expected return on existing business 56 56 413 469 Changes in operating assumptions and experience variances 80 25 105 23 82 Changes in non-operating assumptions and experience variances 114 16 130 92 222 Profi t aft er tax from long-term business 593 135 728 1,027 1,755 Exchange movements on foreign operations and net investment hedges 38 25 63 208 271 Intra-group dividends including statutory transfers note ii and investment in operations 656 656 116 540 Other transfers to net worth 8 8 8 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2012 974 970 1,944 7,518 9,462 EEV basis supplementary information Financial statements Notes on the EEV basis results Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 351 2012 m Total Value of long-term Free Required Total net in-force business surplus capital worth business operations note 9 note vi US operations Shareholders equity at 1 January 2012 1,220 1,371 2,591 2,491 5,082 note iv New business contribution 281 271 10 578 568 Existing business transfer to net worth 777 242 535 535 Expected return on existing business 40 48 88 180 268 Changes in operating assumptions and experience variances 219 19 238 21 259 Changes in non-operating assumptions and experience variances 330 31 299 164 135 notes 5 and v Gain on acquisition of REALIC 169 169 453 453 Profi t aft er tax from long-term business 256 296 552 861 1,413 Exchange movements on foreign operations and net investment hedges 54 67 121 131 252 Intra-group dividends including statutory transfers 252 252 252 Mark to market value movements on Jackson assets backing surplus and required capital 35 35 35 Other transfers to net worth 6 6 6 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2012 1,211 1,600 2,811 3,221 6,032 UK insurance operations Shareholders equity at 1 January 2012 552 1,216 1,768 4,290 6,058 note iv New business contribution 45 86 41 200 241 Existing business transfer to net worth 511 79 432 432 Expected return on existing business 37 37 336 373 Changes in operating assumptions and experience variances 4 6 2 53 55 Changes in non-operating assumptions and experience variances 53 62 115 153 268 Profi t aft er tax from long-term business 515 112 627 310 937 note ii Intra-group dividends including statutory transfers 279 279 72 207 Other transfers from net worth 16 16 16 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2012 772 1,328 2,100 4,672 6,772 352 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Notes on the EEV basis results continued note i 14 Reconciliation of net worth and value of in-force for long-term business continued Notes i All fi gures are shown net of tax.
ii The amounts shown in respect of free surplus and the value of in-force business for Asia and UK insurance operations for intra-group dividends including statutory transfers and investment in operations include the repayment of contingent loan funding.
Contingent loan funding represents amounts whose repayment to the lender is contingent upon future surpluses emerging from certain contracts specifi ed under the arrangement.
If insuffi cient surplus emerges on those contracts, there is no recourse to other assets of the Group and the liability is not payable to the degree of shortfall.
iii The movements arising from new business contribution are as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Free surplus invested in new business 618 553 Increase in required capital 454 406 Reduction in total net worth 164 147 Increase in the value associated with new business 1,955 1,683 Total post-tax new business contribution 1,791 1,536 iv Free surplus invested in new business is as follows: 2012 m 2011 m Total Total UK long-term UK long-term Asia US insurance business Asia US insurance business operations operations operations operations operations operations operations operations note 2 Pre-tax new business contribution 1,266 873 313 2,452 1,076 815 260 2,151 Tax 284 305 72 661 265 285 65 615 Post-tax new business contribution 982 568 241 1,791 811 530 195 1,536 Free surplus invested in new business 292 281 45 618 297 202 54 553 Post-tax new business contribution per 1 million free surplus invested 3.4 2.0 5.4 2.9 2.7 2.6 3.6 2.8 v The eff ect on free surplus of the purchase of REALIC refl ects the diff erence between the consideration of 370 million and the free surplus of REALIC at the acquisition date.
The REALIC free surplus represents the excess of net worth over required capital.
The incremental value of in-force of 453 million represents the amount which is recognised on the EEV reporting basis over and above the net worth.
vi The value of in-force business includes the value of future margins from current in-force business less the cost of holding required capital and represents: 31 December 2012 m 31 December 2011 m Total Total UK long-term UK long-term Asia US insurance business Asia US insurance business operations operations operations operations operations operations operations operations note Value of in-force business before deduction of cost of capital and time value of guarantees 7,903 3,992 4,916 16,811 6,922 3,222 4,598 14,742 Cost of capital 352 121 244 717 317 135 241 693 Cost of time value of guarantees 33 650 683 22 596 67 685 Net value of in-force business 7,518 3,221 4,672 15,411 6,583 2,491 4,290 13,364 Note A provision for the cost of time value of options and guarantees for UK insurance operations is no longer required.
EEV basis supplementary information Financial statements Notes on the EEV basis results Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 353 15 Expected transfer of value of in-force business to free surplus The discounted value of in-force business and required capital can be reconciled to the 2012 and 2011 totals in the tables below for the emergence of free surplus as follows: 2012 m 2011 m note 14 Required capital 3,898 3,447 note 14 Value of in-force VIF 15,411 13,364 note 14 Add back: deduction for cost of time value of guarantees 683 685 note Other items 1,401 1,214 18,591 16,282 Note Other items represent amounts incorporated into VIF where there is no defi nitive timeframe for when the payments will be made or receipts received.
In particular, other items includes the deduction of the value of the shareholders interest in the estate, the value of which is derived by increasing fi final bonus rates so as to exhaust the estate over the lifetime of the in-force with-profi ts business.
This is an assumption to give an appropriate valuation.
To be conservative this item is excluded from the expected free surplus generation profi le below.
Cash ows are projected on a deterministic basis and are discounted at the appropriate risk discount rate.
The modelled cash ows use the same methodology underpinning the Groups embedded value reporting and so is subject to the same assumptions and sensitivities.
The table below shows how the VIF generated by the in-force business and the associated required capital is modelled as emerging into free surplus over future years.
2012 m Expected period of conversion of future post-tax distributable earnings and required capital fl ows to free surplus 2012 total as shown above 1-5 years 6 -10 years 11-15 years 16 -20 years 21-40 years 40 years Asia operations 8,410 2,987 1,873 1,181 840 1,297 232 US operations 5,439 2,723 1,607 698 301 110 UK insurance operations 4,742 1,890 1,185 756 456 445 10 Total 18,591 7,600 4,665 2,635 1,597 1,852 242 100% 41% 25% 14% 9% 10% 1% 2011 m Expected period of conversion of future post-tax distributable earnings and required capital fl ows to free surplus 2011 total as shown above 1-5 years 6 -10 years 11-15 years 16 -20 years 21-40 years 40 years Asia operations 7,387 2,582 1,596 1,012 732 1,262 203 US operations 4,267 2,241 1,287 490 173 76 UK insurance operations 4,628 1,864 1,166 743 453 394 8 Total 16,282 6,687 4,049 2,245 1,358 1,732 211 100% 41% 25% 14% 8% 11% 1% 354 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 16 Sensitivity of results to alternative assumptions a Sensitivity analysis economic assumptions The tables below show the sensitivity of the embedded value as at 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 and the new business contribution after the effect of required capital for 2012 and 2011 to: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 1 per cent increase in the discount rates: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 1 per cent increase and decrease in interest rates, including all consequential changes assumed investment returns for all asset classes, market values of xed interest assets, risk discount rates : A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 1 per cent rise in equity and property yields: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 10 per cent fall in market value of equity and property assets embedded value only : A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Holding company statutory minimum capital by contrast to required capital, embedded value only : A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 5 basis point increase in UK long-term expected defaults: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 10 basis point increase in the liquidity premium for UK annuities.
In each sensitivity calculation, all other assumptions remain unchanged except where they are directly affected by the revised economic conditions.
New business contribution 2012 m 2011 m Total Total UK long-term UK long-term Asia US insurance business Asia US insurance business operations operations operations operations operations operations operations operations note 2 New business contribution 1,266 873 313 2,452 1,076 815 260 2,151 Discount rates 1% increase 163 40 38 241 139 45 36 220 Interest rates 1% increase 33 104 6 143 2 81 5 88 Interest rates 1% decrease 106 161 11 278 72 117 6 195 Equity property yields 1% rise 48 97 13 158 50 92 11 153 Long-term expected defaults 5 bps increase 10 10 8 8 Liquidity premium 10 bps increase 20 20 16 16 Embedded value of long-term business operations 31 December 2012 m 31 December 2011 m Total Total UK long-term UK long-term Asia US insurance business Asia US insurance business operations operations operations operations operations operations operations operations note 11 Shareholders equity 9,462 6,032 6,772 22,266 8,510 5,082 6,058 19,650 Discount rates 1% increase 879 209 482 1,570 771 147 443 1,361 Interest rates 1% increase 218 124 328 670 376 106 343 825 Interest rates 1% decrease 85 49 399 533 253 58 400 711 Equity property yields 1% rise 328 230 202 760 329 185 205 719 Equity property market values 10% fall 159 69 309 537 159 16 326 469 Statutory minimum capital 108 89 4 201 114 92 4 210 Long-term expected defaults 5 bps increase 112 112 98 98 Liquidity premium 10 bps increase 224 224 196 196 The sensitivities shown above are for the impact of instantaneous changes on the embedded value of long-term business operations and include the combined effect on the value of in-force business and net assets at the balance sheet dates indicated.
If the change in assumption shown in the sensitivities were to occur, then the effect shown above would be recorded within two components of the pro t analysis for the following year.
These are for the effect of economic assumption changes and, to the extent that asset value changes are included in the sensitivities, within short-term uctuations in investment returns.
In addition to the sensitivity effects shown above, the other components of the pro t for the following year would be calculated by reference to the altered assumptions, for example new business contribution and unwind of discount, together with the effect of other changes such as altered corporate bond spreads.
In addition for Jackson, the fair value movements on assets backing surplus and required capital which are taken directly to shareholders equity would also be affected by changes in interest rates.
EEV basis supplementary information Financial statements Notes on the EEV basis results Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 355 b Sensitivity analysis non-economic assumptions The tables below show the sensitivity of the embedded value as at 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 and the new business contribution after the effect of required capital for 2012 and 2011 to: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 10 per cent proportionate decrease in maintenance expenses a 10 per cent sensitivity on a base assumption of 10 per annum would represent an expense assumption of 9 per annum : A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 10 per cent proportionate decrease in lapse rates a 10 per cent sensitivity on a base assumption of 5 per cent would represent a lapse rate of 4.5 per cent per annum : and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 5 per cent proportionate decrease in base mortality and morbidity rates ie increased longevity.
New business contribution 2012 m 2011 m Total Total UK long-term UK long-term Asia US insurance business Asia US insurance business operations operations operations operations operations operations operations operations note 2 New business contribution 1,266 873 313 2,452 1,076 815 260 2,151 Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 32 13 4 49 26 11 7 44 Lapse rates 10% decrease 95 26 7 128 92 24 10 126 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease 76 5 11 70 60 9 9 60 Change representing effect on: Life business 76 5 3 84 60 9 3 72 UK annuities 14 14 12 12 Embedded value of long-term business operations 31 December 2012 m 31 December 2011 m Total Total UK long-term UK long-term Asia US insurance business Asia US insurance business operations operations operations operations operations operations operations operations note 11 Shareholders equity 9,462 6,032 6,772 22,266 8,510 5,082 6,058 19,650 Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 137 50 56 243 117 44 52 213 Lapse rates 10% decrease 333 225 66 624 342 157 65 564 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease 387 178 273 292 289 92 227 154 Change representing effect on: Life business 387 178 13 578 289 92 12 393 UK annuities 286 286 239 239 c Eff ect of proposed change in UK corporation tax rate The proposed rate change from 23 per cent to 22 per cent announced in the 2012 Budget on 21 March 2012 has been reduced by a further 1 per cent to 21 per cent in the Autumn Statement on 5 December 2012.
The change from 23 per cent to 21 per cent is expected to be effective 1 April 2014 and when substantively enacted it would have the impact of increasing the net of tax value of in-force business of UK insurance operations at 31 December 2012 by around 65 million.
356 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 17 Assumptions Deterministic assumptions The tables below summarise the principal financial assumptions: Assumed investment returns re ect the expected future returns on the assets held and allocated to the covered business at the valuation date.
Notes a The weighted risk discount rates for Asia operations shown above have been determined by weighting each countrys risk discount rates by reference to the EEV basis new business result and the closing value of in-force business.
The changes in the risk discount rates for individual Asia territories refl ect the movements in government bond yields, together with the eff ects of movements in the allowance for market risk and changes in product mix.
b For Hong Kong the assumptions shown are for US dollar denominated business.
For other territories, the assumptions are for local currency denominated business.
c The risk discount rate for Malaysia refl ects both the Malaysia life and Takaful operations.
d The mean equity return assumptions for the most signifi cant equity holdings in the Asia operations were: 31 Dec 2012 % 31 Dec 2011 % Hong Kong 5.8 5.9 Malaysia 9.5 9.7 Singapore 7.35 7.7 EEV basis supplementary information Financial statements Notes on the EEV basis results Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 357 ii US operations 31 Dec 2012 % 31 Dec 2011 % notes a, c Assumed new business spread margins: Fixed annuity business : January to June issues 1.4 1.75 July to December issues 1.1 1.75 Fixed index annuity business: January to June issues 1.75 2.25 July to December issues 1.35 2.25 Institutional business 1.25 1.0 note d Risk discount rate: Variable annuity 6.5 6.7 Non-variable annuity 4.0 4.6 note b Weighted average total: New business 6.3 6.5 In force 5.6 6.0 US 10-year treasury bond rate at end of year 1.8 1.9 Pre-tax expected long-term nominal rate of return for US equities 5.8 5.9 Equity risk premium 4.0 4.0 Expected long-term rate of in ation 2.5 2.0 Including the proportion of variable annuity business invested in the general account.
Grading up linearly by 25 basis points to a long-term assumption over fi five years.
Notes a The assumed new business spread margins shown above are the rates at inception.
For fi xed annuity business including the proportion of variable annuity business invested in the general account in both years the assumed spread margin grades up linearly by 25 basis points to the long-term assumption over fi five years.
In 2012, for fi xed index annuity business the assumed spread margin also grades up linearly by 25 basis points to the long-term assumption over fi five years.
For fi xed index annuity business in 2011 and institutional business in both years the assumption applies from inception ie no grading.
b The weighted average risk discount rates refl ect the mix of business between variable annuity and non-variable annuity business.
The decrease in the weighted average risk discount rates from 2011 to 2012 primarily refl ects the decrease in the US 10-year treasury bond rate of 10 basis points together with the eff ect of the decrease in additional allowance for credit risk as described in note d below.
c Credit risk treatment The projected cash fl ows incorporate the expected long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders.
The projected earned rates refl ect book value yields which are adjusted over time to refl ect projected reinvestment rates.
Positive net cash fl ows are assumed to be reinvested in a mix of corporate bonds, commercial mortgages and limited partnerships.
The yield on those assets is assumed to grade from the current level to a yield that allows for a long-term assumed credit spread on the reinvested assets of 1.25 per cent over 10 years.
The yield also refl ects an allowance for a risk margin reserve which for 2012 is 28 basis points 2011: 27 basis points for long-term defaults as described in note 1 b iii, which represents the allowance as at the valuation date applied in the cash fl ow projections of the value of the in-force business.
In the event that long-term default levels are higher, then unlike for UK annuity business where policyholder benefi ts are not changeable, Jackson has some discretion to adjust crediting rates, subject to contract guarantee levels and general market competition considerations.
d For US operations, the risk discount rates shown above include an additional allowance for a combination of credit risk premium and short-term downgrade and default allowance for general account business of 150 basis points 2011: 200 basis points and for variable annuity business of 30 basis points 2011: 40 basis points to refl ect the fact that a proportion of the variable annuity business is allocated to the general account as described in note 1 b iii.
358 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 17 Assumptions continued iii UK insurance operations 31 Dec 2012 % 31 Dec 2011 % note d Shareholder-backed annuity business: Risk discount rate: note a New business 6.9 7.7 note b In force 7.95 8.6 Pre-tax expected long-term nominal rate of return for shareholder-backed annuity business: New business 4.2 4.85 note b In force 3.9 4.4 note d Other business: note c Risk discount rate: New business 5.2 5.3 In force 5.6 5.65 Equity risk premium 4.0 4.0 Pre-tax expected long-term nominal rates of investment return: UK equities 6.3 6.5 Overseas equities 5.8 to 9.6 5.9 to 9.9 Property 5.1 5.2 Gilts 2.3 2.5 Corporate bonds 3.9 4.0 Expected long-term rate of in ation 2.9 3.0 Post-tax expected long-term nominal rate of return for the PAC with-pro ts fund: Pension business where no tax applies 5.0 5.1 Life business 4.35 4.4 Notes a The new business risk discount rate for shareholder-backed annuity business incorporates an allowance for best estimate defaults and additional credit risk provisions, appropriate to the new business assets, over the projected lifetime of this business.
These additional provisions comprise of a credit risk premium, which is derived from Moodys data from 1970 to 2009, an allowance for a 1 notch downgrade of the portfolio subject to credit risk and an allowance for short-term defaults.
b For shareholder-backed annuity business, the movements in the pre-tax long-term nominal rates of return and the risk discount rates for in-force business mainly refl ect the eff ect of changes in asset yields.
c The risk discount rates for new business and business in force for UK insurance operations other than shareholder-backed annuities refl ect weighted rates based on the type of business.
d Credit spread treatment For with-profi ts business, the embedded value refl ects the discounted value of future shareholder transfers.
These transfers are directly aff ected by the level of projected rates of return on investments, including debt securities.
The assumed earned rate for with-profi t holdings of corporate bonds is defi ned as the risk-free rate plus an assessment of the long-term spread over gilts, net of expected long-term defaults.
This approach is similar to that applied for equities and properties for which the projected earned rate is defi ned as the risk-free rate plus a long-term risk premium.
For UK shareholder-backed annuity business, diff erent dynamics apply both in terms of the nature of the business and the EEV methodology applied.
For this type of business the assets are generally held to maturity to match long duration liabilities.
It is therefore appropriate under EEV methodology to include a liquidity premium in the economic basis used.
The appropriate EEV risk discount rate is set in order to equate the EEV with a market consistent embedded value including liquidity premium.
The liquidity premium in the market consistent embedded value is derived from the yield on the assets held aft er deducting an appropriate allowance for credit risk.
For Prudential Retirement Income Limited, which has approximately 90 per cent of UK shareholder-backed annuity business, the allowance for credit risk for the in-force business at 31 December 2012 is made up of: 1 15 basis points in respect of long-term expected defaults derived by applying Moodys data from 1970 to 2009 and the defi nition of the credit rating used is the second highest credit rating published by Moodys, Standard and Poors and Fitch: and 2 50 basis points in respect of additional provisions which comprise a credit risk premium, which is derived from Moodys data from 1970 to 2009, an allowance for a 1 notch downgrade of the portfolio subject to credit risk and an allowance for short-term defaults.
The credit assumptions used and the residual liquidity premium element of the bond spread over swap rates is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 New business bps bps Bond spread over swap rates 150 139 Total credit risk allowance 35 35 Liquidity premium 115 104 In-force business Bond spread over swap rates 161 201 Total credit risk allowance 65 66 Liquidity premium 96 135 The new business liquidity premium is based on the weighted average of the point of sale liquidity premia.
Specifi c assets are allocated to the new business for the period with the appropriate allowance for credit risk which was 35 basis points for 2012 and 2011.
The overall allowance for credit risk is prudent by comparison with historic rates of default and would be suf cient to withstand a wide range of extreme credit events over the expected lifetime of the annuity business.
EEV basis supplementary information Financial statements Notes on the EEV basis results Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 359 Stochastic assumptions The economic assumptions used for the stochastic calculations are consistent with those used for the deterministic calculations described above.
Assumptions speci c to the stochastic calculations, such as the volatilities of asset returns, re ect local market conditions and are based on a combination of actual market data, historic market data and an assessment of longer-term economic conditions.
Common principles have been adopted across the Group for the stochastic asset models, for example, separate modelling of individual asset classes but with allowance for correlation between the various asset classes.
Details are given below of the key characteristics and calibrations of each model.
iv Asia operations A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The same asset return models as described for UK insurance operations below, appropriately calibrated, have been used for Asia operations.
The principal asset classes are government and corporate bonds.
Equity holdings are much lower than in the UK whilst property holdings do not represent a signi cant investment asset: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The stochastic cost of guarantees is primarily only of signi cance for the Hong Kong, Korea, Malaysia and Singapore operations: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The mean stochastic returns are consistent with the mean deterministic returns for each country.
The expected volatility of equity returns ranges from 18 per cent to 35 per cent, and the volatility of government bond yields ranges from 0.9 per cent to 2.3 per cent 2011: 0.9 per cent to 2.4 per cent.
v US operations Jackson A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Interest rates are projected using a log-normal generator calibrated to historical US treasury yield curves: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Corporate bond returns are based on treasury securities plus a spread that has been calibrated to current market conditions and varies by credit quality: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Variable annuity equity returns and bond interest rates have been stochastically generated using a log-normal model with parameters determined by reference to historical data.
The volatility of equity fund returns ranges from 19 per cent to 32 per cent for all periods throughout these results, depending on the risk class and the class of equity, and the standard deviation of interest rates ranges from 2.2 per cent to 2.5 per cent 2011: 2.1 per cent to 2.4 per cent.
vi UK insurance operations A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Interest rates are projected using a two-factor model calibrated to the initial market yield curve: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The risk premium on equity assets is assumed to follow a log-normal distribution: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A The corporate bond return is calculated as the return on a zero-coupon bond plus a spread.
The spread process is a mean reverting stochastic process: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Property returns are modelled in a similar fashion to corporate bonds, namely as the return on a risk-free bond, plus a risk premium, plus a process representative of the change in residual values and the change in value of the call option on rents.
Mean returns have been derived as the annualised arithmetic average return across all simulations and durations.
For each projection year, standard deviations have been calculated by taking the square root of the annualised variance of the returns over all the simulations.
These have been averaged over all durations in the projection.
For equity and property, the standard deviations relate to the total return on these assets.
The standard deviations applied for both years are as follows: 31 Dec 2012 % 31 Dec 2011 % Equities: UK 20 20 Overseas 18 18 Property 15 15 360 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 17 Assumptions continued vii Demographic assumptions Persistency, mortality and morbidity assumptions are based on an analysis of recent experience but also re ect expected future experience.
Where relevant, when calculating the time value of financial options and guarantees, policyholder withdrawal rates vary in line with the emerging investment conditions according to managements expectations.
viii Expense assumptions Expense levels, including those of service companies that support the Groups long-term business operations, are based on internal expense analysis investigations and are appropriately allocated to acquisition of new business and renewal of in-force business.
Exceptional expenses are identi ed and reported separately.
For mature business, it is Prudentials policy not to take credit for future cost reduction programmes until the savings have been delivered.
For businesses which are currently sub-scale China, Malaysia Takaful and Taiwan and India where the business model is being adapted in response to the regulatory changes introduced in recent years, expense overruns are permitted provided these are short-lived.
For Asia operations, the expenses comprise costs borne directly and recharged costs from the Asia regional head of ce, that are attributable to covered business.
The assumed future expenses for these operations also include projections of these future recharges.
Development expenses are charged as incurred.
Corporate expenditure comprises: A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Expenditure for Group head of ce, to the extent not allocated to the PAC with-pro ts funds, together with Solvency II implementation and restructuring costs, which are charged to the EEV basis results as incurred: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Expenditure of the Asia regional head of ce that is not allocated to the covered business or asset management operations, and is charged as incurred.
These costs are primarily for corporate related activities and included within corporate expenditure.
ix Taxation and other legislation Current taxation and other legislation have been assumed to continue unaltered except where changes have been announced and substantively enacted in the year.
The amounts shown are not, and not intended to be, refl ective of premium income recorded in the IFRS income statement.
ii New business in China is included at Prudentials 50 per cent interest in the China life operation.
iii New business in India is included at Prudentials 26 per cent interest in the India life operation.
362 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 19 Other developments Acquisition of Thanachart Life Assurance Company Limited On 5 November 2012, Prudential plc, through its subsidiary Prudential Life Assurance Thailand Public Company Limited Prudential Thailand entered into an agreement to acquire 100 per cent of Thanachart Life Assurance Company Limited Thanachart Life, a wholly-owned life insurance subsidiary of Thanachart Bank Public Company limited Thanachart Bank.
The consideration for Thanachart Life is THB 17.5 billion 352 million at the year end exchange rate settled in cash on completion, with a further payment of THB 0.5 billion 10 million payable 12 months after completion, subject to a post-completion adjustment to re ect the net asset value as at the completion date.
The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to close in the first half of 2013.
Upon completion of the transaction, Thanachart Life will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Thailand.
As part of the deal, Prudential Thailand and Thanachart Bank have entered into an agreement to establish an exclusive 15-year partnership to develop jointly their bancassurance business in Thailand.
This transaction builds on Prudentials strategy of focusing on the highly attractive markets of South-east Asia and is in line with the Groups multichannel distribution strategy.
