Accounts Notes Capita plc 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Applied Language Solutions ALS was acquired in December 2011 and due to uncertainties in the newly won settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting Other than IAS 19 Amendment: Employee Benefits, the Directors do not currently anticipate that the adoption v Income tax courts interpretation contract, consideration for the acquisition was structured with a high proportion of period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet contingent consideration relative to the initial consideration of 7.5m.
Due to the performance of this contract, value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value period of initial application.
The amended IAS 19 standard changes the method of calculating the net interest date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
no contingent consideration is now likely to be payable and the related goodwill has also been reassessed to nil.
of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognised if this related to the defined benefit pension schemes from one which uses the expected return on scheme assets to This has resulted in a goodwill impairment net of the contingent consideration release of 10.6m.
There is no difference is negative.
one based on the discount rate.
It is estimated that this change will lead to a reduction in profit before tax of Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: cash impact as no contingent consideration has been paid.
In 2012, there was other contingent consideration approximately 10m in 2013.
In 2013, the prior year comparative for 2012 will be restated for this change, Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill release of 0.4m 2011 11.2m.
reducing profit before tax by 8.6m.
From 2013, we will split out the financing element of the pension charge cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid from operating costs.
This is estimated to be approximately 4m 2012: 3.6m of the circa 10m reduction in except where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a The investment loan with Optima Legal Services Ltd has been reduced by 15.0m to 20.7m reflecting a fall in up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess profit 2012: 8.6m.
transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the the fair value of the loan as the Optima business has been adversely affected by the downturn in the mortgage over the fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss administration market.
3 Revenue The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and Revenue disclosed in the income statement is analysed as follows: 5 Investment expense has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be 2012 2011 1 January 2005.
2012 2011 m m controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Notes m m x Participation in Lloyds Market Syndicate Investment in joint venture 0.1 0.2 Rendering of services 3,217.3 2,802.2 Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax Capita provides run-off administrative services to Lloyds Syndicates.
On occasion where there is a commercial assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which Construction contracts 21 134.5 128.0 This represents expense recognised in relation to the Lloyds Market Syndicates in which the Group had a joint driver to do so, the Group will take an equity holding in a Corporate Member a limited liability company the deductible temporary differences and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be Revenue from operating activities 3,351.8 2,930.2 venture arrangement.
The Group ceased this joint venture arrangement in 2011 and the remaining investment operating in the Lloyds market.
utilised, except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from unwound in 2012.
Finance revenue 9 0.5 0.4 The Group has treated this arrangement as an investment in a joint venture, whereby the Group and the other the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of Total revenue 3,352.3 2,930.6 venturers have a contractual arrangement that establishes joint control over the economic activities of the entity.
6 Segmental information the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
The Group's investment in the joint venture is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the The Groups operations are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the services provided, 4 Administrative expenses The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the equity method the investment in the joint venture is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition with each segment representing a strategic business unit offering a different package of related services across Included within administrative expenses are: extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the changes in the Groups share of net assets of the entity.
The income statement reflects, where material, the share the Groups markets.
A description of the service provision for each segment can be found in the business review deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
2012 2011 of the results of operations of the joint venture.
Profits and losses resulting from transactions between the Group on pages 1 to 57.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the reportable operating segments Notes m m and the joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the joint venture.
The information disclosed below represents the way in which the results of the businesses are reported to Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year Non-underlying, non-cash items: investment in the joint venture reduced to nil having ceased trading in 2011. the Group Board.
The comparative figures have been restated due to a reorganisation of the Groups business when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or Intangible amortisation 14 95.3 67.7 segments during the year and a consequent change in the way in which the results of the businesses are reported substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
y New standards and interpretations not applied to the Group Board.
Goodwill impairment net of contingent consideration movements 10.2 11.2 The IASB and the IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the Impairment of Optima investment loan 15.0 date of these financial statements: income statement.
120.5 56.5 Effective date w Share based payments Non-underlying, cash items: The Group operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs Professional fees re acquisitions 9.6 13.3 Annual periods after The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at Stamp duty paid on acquisitions 0.7 2.1 IAS 1 Amendment: Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income 1 July 2012 which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which 10.3 15.4 IAS 19 Amendment: Employee Benefits 1 January 2013 the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined using an option pricing Total 130.8 71.9 model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions IAS 27 Amendment: Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2013 linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
IAS 28 Amendment: Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2013 IAS 32 Amendment: Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014 No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional IFRS 7 Amendment: Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2013 upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 1 January 2015 satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2013 At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which IFRS 10 Amendment: Investment Entities 1 January 2014 the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2013 conditions, the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2013 a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 Improvements to IFRSs 2012 1 January 2013 IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine 1 January 2013
