Accounts Other information Capita plc 134 Notes to the accounts 1 Accounting policies continued k Share based payments g Foreign currencies The Company operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at the The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at contracted rate if the transaction is covered by a forward exchange contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date or if the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined using an option pricing appropriate at the forward contract rate.
All differences are taken to the profit and loss account with the model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings, to the extent that they are used to finance or provide a linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
hedge against foreign equity investments, which are taken directly to reserves together with the exchange difference on the carrying amount of the related investments.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is h National Insurance on share option gains satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
National Insurance on outstanding share options at the year-end has been grossed up and shown as a provision At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which and a receivable on the balance sheet.
the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market i Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation conditions, the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a A separate note dealing with the disclosures of FRS 29 has not been presented as provided by paragraph 2D b of market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative expense since the FRS 29.
The consolidated financial statements include the required disclosures of IFRS 7 for the Group.
previous balance sheet date is recognised in the profit and loss account, with a corresponding entry in equity.
j Derivative financial instruments Subsidiary undertakings of the Company reimburse the Company through the intercompany account for charges The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts to attributable to their employees participating in the Companys share schemes.
hedge risks associated with interest and exchange rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are 2 Deferred taxation stated at fair value.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts are determined by 2012 2011 reference to market rates for similar instruments.
m m For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either: fair value hedges when they hedge the The deferred taxation included in the balance sheet is as follows: exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where they hedge Accelerated capital allowances 1.0 1.3 exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to either a particular risk associated with a recognised Share based payments 3.5 3.3 asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
Cash flow hedges 5.2 2.5 In relation to fair value hedges e. g. fixed to floating interest rate swaps held as fair value hedges against fixed Fixed rate interest rate swaps 12.1 11.1 interest rate borrowings which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the Provisions 1.2 1.1 hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Any gain or loss on the Included in debtors note 8 21.0 16.7 hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the profit and loss account.
3 Profit Loss attributable to members of the parent undertaking The loss after taxation dealt with in the accounts of the parent undertaking was 92.1m 2011: profit of 132m.
In relation to cash flow hedges the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Amounts 4 Dividends taken to equity are transferred to the profit and loss account when the hedged transaction affects the profit and 2012 2011 loss account, such as when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or when a forecast m m transaction occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the Declared and paid during the year amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
Ordinary shares equity : If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in Final for 2011 paid: 14.2p per share 2010: 13.4p per share 86.7 81.2 equity are transferred to the profit and loss account.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or Interim for 2012 paid: 7.9p per share 2011: 7.2p per share 51.4 43.8 exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously 138.1 125.0 recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs.
Proposed for approval at AGM not recognised as a liability at 31 December For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are Ordinary shares equity : taken directly to the profit and loss account.
