Accounts Notes Capita plc 95 Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 2012 2011 Notes m m 1 Corporate information Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group until control is The consolidated financial statements of Capita plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 were authorised for transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial Cash flows from operating activities issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 27 February 2013.
Capita plc is a public limited company statements include the results for the part of the reporting year during which Capita plc has control.
Losses Operating profit on continuing activities before interest and taxation 340.9 355.5 incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if Depreciation 13 71.7 70.2 that results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Amortisation of intangible assets treated as depreciation 14 1.2 0.2 The principal activities of the Group are given in the business review on pages 1 to 57.
Amortisation of intangible assets recognised on acquisition 14 95.3 67.7 d Changes in accounting policies 2 Summary of significant accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: Share based payment expense 28 9.1 8.3 Underlying profit Pensions 32 6.9 33.3 The Group has adopted the following new amendments to IFRS during the year.
The Group separately presents intangible amortisation, acquisition contingent consideration adjustments, Adjustment for non-cash items: contingent consideration releases, impairments of goodwill and investment loan 4 25.2 11.2 acquisition expenses, impairments and the movement in the mark to market valuation of certain financial IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendment Transfers of Financial Assets Profit loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.7 instruments.
IAS 12 Income Taxes Amendment Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets Movement in provisions 18.2 9.2 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions Net movement in payables and receivables 1.0 84.9 The principal effects of these changes are as follows: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the Cash generated from operations before settlements 519.2 364.0 Directors to make judgements and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendment Transfers of Financial Assets The IASB issued an Settlement of Arch cru 17.9 disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements and the reported income and expense during amendment to IFRS7 that enhances disclosures for financial assets.
These disclosures relate to assets transferred Settlement of Cumbria County Council pension deficit 32 0.8 10.0 the reported periods.
Although these judgements and assumptions are based on the Directors best knowledge of as defined under IAS 39.
If the assets transferred are not derecognised entirely in the financial statements, an Cash generated from operations 520.0 336.1 the amount, events or actions, actual results may differ from these estimates.
entity has to disclose information that enables users of financial statements to understand the relationship Income tax paid 62.3 62.6 The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the between those assets which are not derecognised and their associated liabilities.
If those assets are derecognised Net interest paid 46.0 42.0 carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement and impairment entirely, but the entity retains a continuing involvement, disclosures have to be provided that enable users of Net cash inflow from operating activities 411.7 231.5 of goodwill, the measurement of defined benefit obligations, provisions see note 25 and revenue.
The financial statements to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, the entitys continuing involvement in measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill on a business combination involves estimation of future those derecognised assets.
The effective implementation date is for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July Cash flows from investing activities cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on 2011 with no comparative requirements.
The adoption of this revised standard did not have any impact on the Purchase of property, plant and equipment 95.5 102.3 an annual basis and thus requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the financial position or performance of the Group.
Purchase of intangible assets 14 5.8 8.0 intangible assets are allocated.
This involves estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1.4 0.1 IAS 12 Income Taxes Amendment Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets The amendment clarified the see note 15.
Measurement of defined benefit obligations requires estimation of future changes in salaries and Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses 144.4 352.2 determination of deferred tax on investment property measured at fair value and introduces a rebuttable inflation, as well as mortality rates, the expected return on assets and the selection of a suitable discount rate Debt repaid on the acquisition of subsidiaries 17 57.1 22.3 presumption that deferred tax on investment property measured using the fair value model in IAS 40 should be see note 32.
The Group makes use of estimates to determine revenue in respect of percentage complete long determined on the basis that its carrying amount will be recovered through sale.
It includes the requirement that Cash overdraft acquired with subsidiary undertakings 17 17.6 9.6 term and construction contracts see e and f below.
deferred tax on non-depreciable assets that are measured using the revaluation model in IAS 16 should always be Purchase of financial assets 16 0.2 a Statement of compliance measured on a sale basis.
The amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012 and Investment loan 16 0.3 The consolidated financial statements of Capita plc and all of its subsidiaries the Group have been prepared in has no effect on the Groups financial position, performance or its disclosures.
Return on investment in joint venture 0.3 accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as Net cash outflow from investing activities 283.5 494.2 e Revenue applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group has revenue streams largely in the United Kingdom but also in Europe, India and South East Asia.
Cash flows from financing activities The parent company continues to apply UK GAAP in the preparation of its individual financial statements and Issue of ordinary share capital 27 284.9 4.5 The Group operates a number of diverse businesses and therefore it has to use a variety of methods for revenue these are contained on pages 132 to 138.
Share transaction costs 27 2.7 recognition see f below.
b Basis of preparation Dividends paid 12 138.1 125.0 In all cases revenue is recognised when the services have been performed and it is probable that the economic The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under IFRS where certain financial instruments and Capital element of finance lease rental payments 29 1.7 1.0 benefits resulting from this performance will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
the pension assets have been measured at fair value.
The carrying value of recognised assets and liabilities that Instalment debtor movement 14.2 are hedged are adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that are being hedged.
The Costs incurred prior to the Group being awarded a contract or achieving preferred bidder status are expensed to Asset based securitised financing 29 11.7 consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest the income statement.
Repayment of loan notes 29 2.3 tenth of a million m except when otherwise indicated.
Proceeds on issue of term debt and bonds 29 160.3 339.8 c Basis of consolidation Revolving credit facility 29 178.0 178.0 The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Capita plc and its subsidiaries as at Financing arrangement costs 29 1.5 3.2 31 December each year.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as Net cash inflow from financing activities 120.9 395.6 the parent company, using consistent accounting policies, but in accordance with UK GAAP.
Adjustments are Increase in cash and cash equivalents 249.1 132.9 made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist between IFRS and UK GAAP.
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 71.5 60.3 All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, Impact of movement in exchange rates 0.7 1.1 have been eliminated in full.
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 319.9 71.5 Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash at bank and in hand 19 319.9 71.5 Total 319.9 71.5 Accounts Notes Capita plc 96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Ongoing Time & Percentage service material Brownfield complete long Construction Greenfield f Revenue recognition Segment contracts contracts contracts term contracts contracts contracts The main accounting policies for recognition are: Health & Wellbeing Ongoing service contracts IT Services & Consulting Revenue is recognised over the period the services are delivered to the client.
Justice & Secure Services Time and materials contracts Professional Services Where Capita provide staff to clients at hourly or daily rates, revenue is recognised on the basis of time worked.
Property Services Brownfield contracts Workplace Services A brownfield contract is one where there is a transfer of an existing operation to the Group.
All costs incurred Integrated Services prior to service commencement are expensed as incurred and revenue represents fee income in respect of the Customer Management & International services provided.
General Insurance Percentage complete long term contracts Investor & Banking Services Revenue reflects the sales value of work performed in the year, including fees invoiced and estimates in respect of amounts to be invoiced after the year-end long term contracts.
Where contracts are long term and the profit to Life & Pensions Services be earned on the contract can be determined with reasonable certainty, the amount of revenue recognised is Contract renewals calculated on the basis of the stage of completion.
This is determined by measuring the costs incurred to date as On the renewal of existing contracts, the Group continues to review the circumstances pertinent to each a proportion of the full cost of completing the contract and then applying the percentage to the total revenue contract to ensure that the correct methodologies are adopted and are in line with current experience.
As a result expected to be earned.
The costs incurred within a contract include all direct costs and outlays.
of such a review and in keeping with the principles of revenue recognition, the Group has recognised revenue in If, on the review of the performance of the contract, a loss is anticipated then the full value of this expected loss respect of certain income at the point the income is deemed to be earned rather than when the cash is received.
to the end of the contract is booked immediately in the income statement.
This resulted in an increase in revenue and profit in the year of 5.2m.
Construction contracts g Foreign currency translation The Groups property consultancy provides professional services to clients as a subcontractor.
The Group is not The functional and presentation currency of Capita plc and its United Kingdom subsidiaries is the pound sterling directly involved in constructing assets in its own right but provides professional consultancy services to entities.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the which do construct assets.
The services provided are architectural, structural or other services that result in the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional construction of an asset.
In line with the requirements of IAS 11 gross amounts due from customers are stated at currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the consolidated income the proportion of the anticipated net sales value earned to date less amounts billed on account.
To the extent statement with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net that fees paid on account exceed the value of work performed, they are included in creditors as gross amounts investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at due to customers.
which time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Greenfield contracts Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
A Greenfield contract is one in which an entirely new service is being established for a client.
Where nonNon-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the refundable payments are received prior to full service commencement on the achievement of agreed contract exchange rate as at the date of initial transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign delivery milestones, these are recognised as revenue when the associated milestone has been achieved.
Direct currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
incremental costs incurred prior to service commencement and reimbursable during the contract, excluding any overheads, are included in prepayments and amortised over the contracts life.
The functional currencies of overseas operations include the euro and the Indian rupee.
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of the overseas operations are retranslated into the presentation currency of Capita plc On commencement of service delivery revenue represents fees invoiced in respect of the services provided.
at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and their income statements are translated at the Contracts with multiple elements weighted average exchange rate for the year.
The exchange differences arising on the retranslation are taken Within some contracts there are multiple services to be delivered such as transformation of the existing service directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount delivery model, transitions of processes, people or data and the delivery of administration services, which have to recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation shall be recognised in the income statement.
be undertaken over the course of the contract.
The Group has elected not to record cumulative translation differences arising prior to the transition date as In these contracts these activities are treated separately where appropriate, with the relevant accounting policy permitted by IFRS 1.
In utilising this exemption, all cumulative translation differences are deemed to be zero as for revenue recognition, as detailed previously, being applied to each individual element.
The following table at 1 January 2004 and all subsequent disposals shall exclude any translation differences arising prior to the date illustrates which policies are currently predominately used in each segment.
Accounts Notes Capita plc 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued In a business combination achieved in stages, the Group re-measures its previously held equity interest in the Ongoing Time & Percentage acquiree at its acquisition-date fair value and recognises the resulting gain or loss, if any, in the income statement.
service material Brownfield complete long Construction Greenfield f Revenue recognition h Property, plant and equipment Segment contracts contracts contracts term contracts contracts contracts The main accounting policies for recognition are: Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration Health & Wellbeing Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: transferred and the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests plus the fair value of any existing equity Ongoing service contracts interest over the net recognised amount of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the IT Services & Consulting Revenue is recognised over the period the services are delivered to the client.
Freehold buildings and long leasehold property over 50 years excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Justice & Secure Services Leasehold improvements period of the lease Time and materials contracts Acquisitions between 1 January 2004 IFRS transition date and 1 January 2010 Plant and equipment 3 to 10 years Professional Services Where Capita provide staff to clients at hourly or daily rates, revenue is recognised on the basis of time worked.
For acquisitions between the Groups IFRS transition date of 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010, goodwill Property Services The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in the recognised amount of the Brownfield contracts circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the Workplace Services identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
When the excess was negative, a bargain A brownfield contract is one where there is a transfer of an existing operation to the Group.
All costs incurred carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable Integrated Services purchase gain was recognised immediately in the income statement.
prior to service commencement are expensed as incurred and revenue represents fee income in respect of the amount.
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment is the greater of net selling price and value in Customer Management & International services provided.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred General Insurance pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific in connection with business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition.
Percentage complete long term contracts Investor & Banking Services to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is Revenue reflects the sales value of work performed in the year, including fees invoiced and estimates in respect of Contingent consideration was recognised only where the Group had a present obligation and the economic determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses are recognised in the amounts to be invoiced after the year-end long term contracts.
Where contracts are long term and the profit to Life & Pensions Services outflow was more likely than not and a reliable estimate was determinable.
Any subsequent adjustment to the income statement in the administrative expenses line item.
be earned on the contract can be determined with reasonable certainty, the amount of revenue recognised is contingent consideration was recognised as part of goodwill.
Contract renewals calculated on the basis of the stage of completion.
This is determined by measuring the costs incurred to date as An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are On the renewal of existing contracts, the Group continues to review the circumstances pertinent to each Acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 IFRS transition date a proportion of the full cost of completing the contract and then applying the percentage to the total revenue expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset contract to ensure that the correct methodologies are adopted and are in line with current experience.
As a result On transition to the adoption of IFRS, the Group took advantage of the exemption allowed in IFRS 1 not to expected to be earned.
calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included of such a review and in keeping with the principles of revenue recognition, the Group has recognised revenue in restate business combinations which took place prior to the date of transition.
Goodwill recognised under UK in the income statement in the year in which the item is derecognised.
If, on the review of the performance of the contract, a loss is anticipated then the full value of this expected loss respect of certain income at the point the income is deemed to be earned rather than when the cash is received.
GAAP prior to the date of transition to IFRS is stated at net book value as at this date deemed cost.
This to the end of the contract is booked immediately in the income statement.
goodwill had been amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life ranging from 5 to 20 years.
i Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily Construction contracts Goodwill g Foreign currency translation takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the The Groups property consultancy provides professional services to clients as a subcontractor.
The Group is not Following initial recognition goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is The functional and presentation currency of Capita plc and its United Kingdom subsidiaries is the pound sterling respective assets.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur.
Borrowing costs consist of directly involved in constructing assets in its own right but provides professional consultancy services to entities reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
The services provided are architectural, structural or other services that result in the carrying value may be impaired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 December 1997 remains set off transaction.
In line with the requirements of IAS 11 gross amounts due from customers are stated at The Group capitalises borrowing costs for all qualifying assets where construction commenced on or after directly against reserves and does not get recycled through the income statement.
currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The Group continues to expense borrowing costs relating to construction projects that statement with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the cash-generating units which are that fees paid on account exceed the value of work performed, they are included in creditors as gross amounts commenced prior to 1 January 2009. investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at expected to benefit from the combinations synergies.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable due to customers.
j Business combinations and goodwill amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cashGreenfield contracts Business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Where goodwill forms part of Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
Where nonthe date on which control is passed to the Group.
a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the refundable payments are received prior to full service commencement on the achievement of agreed contract operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on exchange rate as at the date of initial transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010 delivery milestones, these are recognised as revenue when the associated milestone has been achieved.
Direct disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in these circumstances is measured on the basis of the relative currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the fair value incremental costs incurred prior to service commencement and reimbursable during the contract, excluding any values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
of the consideration transferred plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree.
overheads, are included in prepayments and amortised over the contracts life.
As at the reporting date, For each business combination on a transaction by transaction basis, the Group elects to measure the Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests the assets and liabilities of the overseas operations are retranslated into the presentation currency of Capita plc On commencement of service delivery revenue represents fees invoiced in respect of the services provided.
non-controlling interests either at its fair value or at its proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests that do not result in a change of control are accounted for at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and their income statements are translated at the assets at the date of acquisition.
as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such Contracts with multiple elements weighted average exchange rate for the year.
The exchange differences arising on the retranslation are taken transactions.
The adjustments to non-controlling interests are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets Within some contracts there are multiple services to be delivered such as transformation of the existing service directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or securities, are expensed as of the subsidiary.
Any difference between the price paid or received and the amount by which non-controlling delivery model, transitions of processes, people or data and the delivery of administration services, which have to recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation shall be recognised in the income statement.
incurred and included within administrative expenses and included within the non-underlying column.
interests are adjusted is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
The Group has elected not to record cumulative translation differences arising prior to the transition date as Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent Prior to the adoption of IAS 27 Amended, goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of non-controlling In these contracts these activities are treated separately where appropriate, with the relevant accounting policy permitted by IFRS 1.
In utilising this exemption, all cumulative translation differences are deemed to be zero as consideration is classified as equity, it is not re-measured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
interests in a subsidiary, which represented the excess of the cost of the additional investment over the carrying for revenue recognition, as detailed previously, being applied to each individual element.
The following table at 1 January 2004 and all subsequent disposals shall exclude any translation differences arising prior to the date Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in the amount of the interest in the net assets acquired at the date of the transaction.
illustrates which policies are currently predominately used in each segment.
Accounts Notes Capita plc 98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Financial assets at fair value through the income statement disclosed in investment income include financial assets designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through the income statement.
k Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and those identified in a business acquisition are Financial assets may be designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss if the assets are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
In the case of capitalised software development costs, part of a group of financial assets which are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in research expenditure is written off to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development accordance with a documented risk management strategy.
expenditure is written off in the same way unless and until the Group is satisfied as to the technical, commercial n Trade and other receivables and financial viability of individual projects.
In these cases, the development expenditure is capitalised and Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amortised over the period during which the Group is expected to benefit.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
Following initial recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be o Cash and cash equivalents either finite or indefinite.
There were no indefinite-lived assets in 2011 or 2012.
Amortisation is charged on assets Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with finite lives, this expense is taken to the income statement through the administrative expenses line item.
with an original maturity of 3 months or less.
Intangible assets with finite lives are only tested for impairment, either individually or at the cash-generating unit For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash level, where there is an indicator of impairment.
equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net p Interest-bearing loans and borrowings disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement when the All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at their fair value.
After initial recognition loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective Intangible assets identified and recognised since transition to IFRS are profiled, on a straight-line basis, as follows: interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
brands are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 5 and 10 years Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised, as well as through software and licences are amortised over their useful economic lives of 5 years the amortisation process.
contracts and committed sales are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 1.5 and 15 years q Provisions client lists and relationships are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 4 and 10 years Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past capitalised software development costs are amortised over their useful economic lives of between event and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the 5 and 15 years obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised other intangibles are amortised over their useful economic lives of 15 years.
as a separate asset but only when recovery is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, l Recoverable amount of non-current assets provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written The Group provides, on a discounted basis, for the future rent expense and related cost of leasehold property down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair net of estimated sub-lease income where the space is vacant or currently not planned to be used for value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not ongoing operations.
generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
r Onerous contracts m Investments and other financial assets The Group reviews its long term contracts to ensure that the expected economic benefits to be received are All investments are initially recorded at their fair value.
Subsequently they are reviewed for impairment if events in excess of the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
The unavoidable costs are or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
the lower of the net costs of termination or the costs of fulfilment of the contractual obligations.
The Group Investment loans are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
recognises the excess of the unavoidable costs over economic benefits due to be received, as an onerous contract provision.
Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at their fair value with unrealised gains or losses being recognised directly in equity.
When the investment is disposed of, the cumulative gain or loss previously recorded in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Accounts Notes Capita plc 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Financial assets at fair value through the income statement disclosed in investment income include financial 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued t Derivative financial instruments assets designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through the income statement.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts to k Intangible assets s Pension schemes hedge risks associated with interest and exchange rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and those identified in a business acquisition are Financial assets may be designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss if the assets are The Group maintains a number of defined contribution pension schemes and for these schemes the Group has stated at fair value.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts are determined by capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
In the case of capitalised software development costs, part of a group of financial assets which are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an reference to market rates for similar instruments.
research expenditure is written off to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
employee benefit expense in the income statement for the year when they are due.
expenditure is written off in the same way unless and until the Group is satisfied as to the technical, commercial For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either: fair value hedges when they hedge the n Trade and other receivables In addition, the Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme and participates in a number of other defined and financial viability of individual projects.
In these cases, the development expenditure is capitalised and exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where they hedge Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable benefit pension schemes, all of which require contributions to be made to separate trustee-administered funds.
amortised over the period during which the Group is expected to benefit.
exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with either a recognised amounts.
The costs of providing benefits under these schemes are determined separately for each scheme using the asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
Following initial recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any accumulated projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine In relation to fair value hedges e. g. fixed to floating interest rate swaps held as fair value hedges against fixed amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of the defined benefit o Cash and cash equivalents interest rate borrowings which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from re-measuring either finite or indefinite.
Amortisation is charged on assets obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the with finite lives, this expense is taken to the income statement through the administrative expenses line item.
statement, unless the changes are conditional on employees remaining in service for a specified period of time with an original maturity of 3 months or less.
hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the average Intangible assets with finite lives are only tested for impairment, either individually or at the cash-generating unit recognised in the income statement.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash vesting period.
level, where there is an indicator of impairment.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued or a curtailment reducing future In relation to cash flow hedges the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement directly in equity, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts p Interest-bearing loans and borrowings disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement when the occurs the obligation and related plan assets are re-measured using current actuarial assumptions and the taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects the income All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at their fair value.
resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or statement, such as when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or when a forecast After initial recognition loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective curtailment occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the Intangible assets identified and recognised since transition to IFRS are profiled, on a straight-line basis, as follows: interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
The interest cost element of the defined benefit pension charge represents a change in the present value of brands are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 5 and 10 years If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time and is determined by applying the discount rate to the Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised, as well as through software and licences are amortised over their useful economic lives of 5 years equity are transferred to the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or opening present value of the benefit obligation taking into account material changes in the obligation during the the amortisation process.
exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously year.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long contracts and committed sales are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 1.5 and 15 years recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs.
term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on fair value of plan assets of contributions q Provisions client lists and relationships are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 4 and 10 years received and benefits paid during the year.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are capitalised software development costs are amortised over their useful economic lives of between event and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the In respect of 3 of the defined benefit pension schemes in which the Group participates, the Group accounts for its taken directly to the income statement and are presented as non-underlying.
5 and 15 years obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some legal and constructive obligation over the period of its participation which is for a fixed period only.
u Leasing or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised other intangibles are amortised over their useful economic lives of 15 years.
Actuarial gains and losses are fully recognised in equity through the statement of comprehensive income such The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the as a separate asset but only when recovery is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented that the balance sheet reflects the schemes surplus or liability at the balance sheet date.
Current and past service arrangement at inception date and is concerned with whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, l Recoverable amount of non-current assets costs are charged to operating profit with the interest cost, net of expected return on assets in the plans, included upon the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where Group as a lessee: Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written The liability on the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension schemes comprises the total for each ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property The Group provides, on a discounted basis, for the future rent expense and related cost of leasehold property down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair scheme, or group of schemes, of the present value of the defined benefit obligation using a discount rate based or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the net of estimated sub-lease income where the space is vacant or currently not planned to be used for value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not on high quality corporate bonds, less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining ongoing operations.
assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price.
The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to r Onerous contracts depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset or the lease term.
m Investments and other financial assets the sum of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any amount the Group expects to The Group reviews its long term contracts to ensure that the expected economic benefits to be received are All investments are initially recorded at their fair value.
Subsequently they are reviewed for impairment if events Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions.
in excess of the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a the lower of the net costs of termination or the costs of fulfilment of the contractual obligations.
The Group straight-line basis over the lease term.
Investment loans are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at their fair value with unrealised gains or losses being recognised Group as a lessor: Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of directly in equity.
When the investment is disposed of, the cumulative gain or loss previously recorded in equity is the asset are classified as operating leases.
Rental income arising from operating leases is recognised in the income recognised in the income statement.
statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Accounts Notes Capita plc 100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting v Income tax period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid except where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the over the fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be 1 January 2005. controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
x Participation in Lloyds Market Syndicate Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax Capita provides run-off administrative services to Lloyds Syndicates.
On occasion where there is a commercial assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which driver to do so, the Group will take an equity holding in a Corporate Member a limited liability company the deductible temporary differences and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be operating in the Lloyds market.
utilised, except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from The Group has treated this arrangement as an investment in a joint venture, whereby the Group and the other the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of venturers have a contractual arrangement that establishes joint control over the economic activities of the entity.
the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
The Group's investment in the joint venture is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the equity method the investment in the joint venture is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the changes in the Groups share of net assets of the entity.
The income statement reflects, where material, the share deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
of the results of operations of the joint venture.
Profits and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the joint venture.
In 2012, the Groups Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year investment in the joint venture reduced to nil having ceased trading in 2011. when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
y New standards and interpretations not applied The IASB and the IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the date of these financial statements: income statement.
Effective date w Share based payments The Group operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs Annual periods after The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at IAS 1 Amendment: Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income 1 July 2012 which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which IAS 19 Amendment: Employee Benefits 1 January 2013 the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined using an option pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions IAS 27 Amendment: Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2013 linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
IAS 28 Amendment: Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2013 IAS 32 Amendment: Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014 No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional IFRS 7 Amendment: Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2013 upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 1 January 2015 satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2013 At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which IFRS 10 Amendment: Investment Entities 1 January 2014 the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2013 conditions, the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2013 a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 Improvements to IFRSs 2012 1 January 2013 IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine 1 January 2013
