Governance C Cor orpor pora at te e G Go ov five er rn nan anc ce e Capita plc 76 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose and regulations.
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may the Directors are required to: differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Details of the principal risk categories can be found on page 39. make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent Rights and restrictions attaching to shares for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared Under the Companys Articles of Association, holders of ordinary shares are in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU entitled to participate in the receipt of dividends pro rata to their holding.
The for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Board may propose and pay an interim dividend and recommend a final dividend, Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures in respect of any accounting period out of the profits available for distribution disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements under English law.
A final dividend may be declared by the shareholders in the General Meeting by ordinary resolution, but no dividend may be declared in prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is excess of the amount recommended by the Board.
inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
At any General Meeting a resolution put to vote at the meeting shall be decided on a poll.
On a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are the holder.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Governance C Cor orpor pora at te e G Go ov five er rn nan anc ce e Capita plc 77 Restrictions on transfer of shares Approval of the Annual Accounts The Companys Articles of Association allow Directors to, in their absolute These Annual Accounts have been approved by the Directors of Capita plc.
discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated form unless The Directors confirm that the Annual Accounts have been prepared in accordance the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped, at the registered office of the with applicable law and regulations and that they include a fair review of the Company, or at such other place as the Directors may appoint and except in the development and performance of the business and the position of the parent case of a transfer by a recognised person where a certificate has not been issued company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, in respect of the share is accompanied by the certificate for the share to which together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to We, the Directors of the Company, confirm that to the best of our knowledge: show the right of the transferor to make the transfer.
They may also refuse to the financial statements prepared in accordance with the applicable set of register any such transfer where it is in favour of more than four transferees or accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial in respect of more than one class of shares.
position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a share in uncertificated form consolidation as a whole in any case where the Company is entitled to refuse or is exempted from the the Directors Report, including content contained by reference, includes a fair review requirement under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations to register of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Issuer the transfer.
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a Annual General Meeting description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The 2013 Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held at Deutsche Bank, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London, EC2N 2DB, on 14 May 2013.
At the AGM a number of resolutions will be proposed.
The resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting, which is sent to shareholders with the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts and includes notes explaining the business to be transacted.
In May 2012 shareholders granted authority for the Company to purchase up to 61,380,909 ordinary shares which will expire at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
No shares were purchased during 2012.
A resolution to renew this authority will be put to shareholders at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Governance C Cor orpor pora at te e G Go ov five er rn nan anc ce e Capita plc 78 Remuneration report Chairs report Key activities undertaken during 2012 In line with the responsibilities set out in the committees terms of reference the The following information is not subject to audit.
following key issues were discussed during the year: It is my pleasure to report on the activities of the Remuneration Committee for approval of the 2011 Directors remuneration report the period to 31 December 2012.
This report will be presented for approval by shareholders at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
review of bonus and share plan performance measures against the 2011 year-end targets This report sets out the remuneration policy and remuneration details of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The report has been review and approval of all awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized LTIP and Deferred Annual Bonus DAB plan, taking into account the total Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and also meets value of awards made under these plans the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Our review of Executive Directors shareholdings and levels achieved remuneration for our Executive Directors is fully compliant with the Code.
consideration of advisory bodies and institutional investors current guidelines The long term strategy of Capita is to attract and retain the best employees to on executive compensation fulfil the overall business plan of the Group and ensuring that this aligns with annual review of all Executive Directors and Chairmans base salaries and benefits our shareholders, external shareholders and a risk policies and systems.
ratification of salary increases for Divisional Directors in line with Company Our remuneration strategy and policy for Executive Directors is to set base policies salary at lower quartile level and reward upper quartile performance with upper quartile rewards.
assessment of the risk environment surrounding the Companys current remuneration arrangements Last year I informed you that although our strategy has not altered, the Executives remain below the bottom quartile for their base salaries.
You may set targets for 2013 cash bonuses and deferred bonus recall that we received approval to increase the Executives opportunity to earn review of targets under the DAB and the LTIP through bonuses.
This brought the Executives back to median point for similar size review and adoption of the Remuneration Policy for areas of the business companies and of course were subject to achieving stretching targets.
adhering to the FSAs Remuneration Code As the Chairman has already reported, the Executive team delivered excellent approve the Remuneration Policy Statement as required under the FSAs results and we are satisfied that the remuneration policy has done its job in 2012.
Remuneration Code I am pleased that the stretching targets set by this Committee in 2011 for 2012 tender and appointment of Deloitte as the Committees independent have been exceeded and that bonuses will be paid to the Executive Directors remuneration advisers in full.
review of the committees terms of reference.
The Committee are also pleased to have also awarded pay rises for the Executive Directors which are detailed below, and are reflective of the performance of Overview of Executive remuneration themselves and the Group.
Summary of remuneration policy and strategy Members of the Committee The remuneration strategy of Capita is to provide a pay package that: The following Non-Executive Directors were members of the Committee attracts, motivates and retains the best employees during 2012: encourages and is supportive of a high performance culture Martina King Chair, Paul Bowtell, Gillian Sheldon and Nigel Wilson rewards the fulfilment of the overall business plan of the Group The Committee met four times during 2012 and the attendance of the aligns employees with the interests of our shareholders and other Committee is shown in the attendance table on page 69. external stakeholders is consistent with our risk policies and systems.
Governance Corporate Governance Capita plc 79 In order to achieve this, our remuneration policy for Executive Directors is to set fixed pay base salary plus benefits around the lower quartile and to offer the potential for competitive levels of total pay if stretching performance targets attached to incentive awards are met.
Our policy is that performance-related pay should form a significant part of Executive Directors remuneration packages with an appropriate balance between short and longer-term targets linked to delivery of the Groups business plan.
Remuneration framework The current remuneration framework for Executive Directors to implement the remuneration policy is summarised below.
During 2013, the Committee intends to review this framework to ensure it remains consistent with the policy.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Changes for 2013 Base salaries Reviewed annually in December with Base salary increases are applied in Individual and business performance Base salary increases consistent with To attract and retain talent by any changes effective in January.
line with the outcome of the review.
are considerations in setting base this framework were made effective ensuring base salaries are sufficiently Review takes into account: salaries.
1 January 2013 as set out on page 81. competitive.
salaries in similar companies and comparably-sized companies remuneration policy economic climate market conditions Group performance the role and responsibility of the individual Director employee remuneration.
Benefits Benefits include pension provision, Benefit provision varies between Not performance related.
No changes are planned for 2013.
Designed to be consistent with car allowance, private medical different Directors.
benefits available to employees insurance, travel and property hire.
Executives can also participate in all-employee share plans.
Annual Bonus Scheme The bonus scheme is reviewed A maximum of 200% of base salary Executives performance is measured No changes are planned for 2013.
Performance measures are selected annually to ensure that bonus can be achieved for delivery of relative to challenging targets for to focus executives on delivery of opportunity and performance stretching performance targets.
the Group business plan for the measures continue to support the financial year.
Stretching targets are set at the start of each financial year.
Performance against targets is reviewed following completion of the final accounts for the period under review.
50% of any bonus earned is delivered in shares deferred for three years under the Deferred Annual Bonus DAB plan with the remainder delivered in cash or deferred shares at the Directors discretion.
Governance Corporate Governance Capita plc 80 Remuneration report Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Changes for 2013 Deferred Annual Bonus DAB plan Executives receive matching awards A maximum match of 2 shares for Matching shares do not usually vest No changes are planned for 2013.
Designed to reward and retain of shares linked to their deferred each gross share deferred under the until the third anniversary of grant.
executives over the longer-term bonus shares.
Matching awards Annual Bonus Scheme.
Vesting is usually subject to continued while aligning their interests with are usually granted in February employment and satisfaction of a those of shareholders.
or March and are subject to performance target.
Also designed to focus participants performance targets measured Matching shares were last awarded on delivering strong year on year over a three year period.
in 2011 and were subject to EPS performance, which in turn drives Performance measures are reviewed growth targets.
long term shareholder value creation.
by the Committee before each award to ensure they remain relevant to business plan priorities and aligned with shareholder interests.
Full details of the operation of the DAB are set out on page 82.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP LTIP awards are usually granted in A maximum annual award of LTIP shares do not usually vest No changes are planned for 2013.
Designed to reward and retain February or March in the form of nil 165,000 shares or shares worth until the third anniversary of grant.
executives over the longer-term cost options.
Vesting is usually subject to continued while aligning their interests with employment and satisfaction of a Award levels for each award are set by those of shareholders.
the Committee at a level appropriate with the individuals performance and LTIP shares were last awarded in 2012 experience.
Performance targets and were subject to EPS growth applying to LTIP awards are relevant to targets and a share price hurdle.
business plan priorities and aligned with shareholder interests.
Full details of the operation of the LTIP are set out on page 82.
Service contracts Details of the contracts are set out below: Executive Directors Date of contract Notice period The service contracts for Executive Directors are for an indefinite period and Paul Pindar 17 December 2007 12 months provide for a one year notice period.
They do not include provisions for predetermined compensation on termination that exceed one years salary and Gordon Hurst 17 December 2007 12 months benefits.
There are no arrangements in place between the Company and its Maggi Bell 1 August 2008 12 months Directors that provide for compensation for loss of office following a takeover bid.
Andy Parker 10 January 2011 12 months All Directors are appointed for an indefinite period but are subject to annual Vic Gysin 10 January 2011 12 months re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Non-Executive Directors Date of joining the Board Martin Bolland 1 March 2008 Gillian Sheldon 1 September 2012 Martina King 1 January 2005 Paul Bowtell 28 June 2010 1 Nigel Wilson 12 May 2010 2 Paddy Doyle 1 March 2010 1 Resigned 31 December 2012 2 Retired 31 March 2012 Governance Corporate Governance Capita plc 81 Key elements of Executive remuneration Non-Executive fees The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board apart Base salaries from the Chairman which is set by the Remuneration Committee and are set at a At the request of the Executive Directors their 2012 salaries as well as those of level that ensures that the Company can attract and retain individuals with Divisional Directors were maintained at 2011 levels.
This decision was supported required skills, experience and knowledge so that the Board can effectively carry by the Committee.
For 2013 increases in the range 2.5% to 4.5% have been awarded to Paul Pindar, The fees also recognise the responsibility of the role and the time commitments Gordon Hurst and Maggi Bell.
This followed a review by the Committee that took required these are not performance-related or pensionable.
The fees are paid into account a range of factors including salary increases in comparator monthly in cash and there are no other benefits.
There were no increases in fees companies, the economic climate, market conditions and individual roles and in 2012. responsibilities.
The Committee also took into account the average salary increase No increases in fees are proposed for 2013 for the Non-Executive Directors and for our workforce for 2013 of 2.5%.
An increase was given to Gillian Sheldon from 1 January 2013 to reflect Vic Gysin and Andy Parker were promoted to the Board in 2011 on significantly her promotion to position of Senior Independent Director to 70,000.
This is the lower salaries than their predecessors.
Following two years of good performance same fee as paid to the previous Senior Independent Director.
in their new roles their salaries have been increased by 13% in 2013 to a level of established Board Directors.
These changes were communicated to our top 20 Short term incentives shareholders before being implemented.
Annual bonus scheme For 2013 the salaries for the Executive Directors will be: The maximum potential award under the annual bonus scheme for 2012 was 200% of salary.
A minimum of 50% of any bonus payable is deferred into shares.
Name 2012 Salary 2013 Salary % increase The balance can be decided by the Executive as a mixture of cash and deferral Paul Pindar 380,000 390,000 2.6% into shares.
Any deferred shares form part of the Deferred Annual Bonus DAB Gordon Hurst 280,000 290,000 3.6% plan.
The DAB includes for a matching award of 2 shares to each 1 deferred, Maggi Bell 230,000 240,000 4.3% dependent on the achievement of certain performance criteria over three years as Vic Gysin 230,000 260,000 13% outlined below.
Andy Parker 230,000 260,000 13% The annual bonus scheme is reviewed annually and is designed to drive performance and profitability across the organisation.
For 2012, the bonus was Pensions based on underlying profit before tax performance.
A highly stretching target Pension contributions are made into the Groups defined contribution scheme.
range was set which took into account market expectations and forecasts The Company makes contributions at a rate of 5% of basic salary.
Andy Parker submitted within the business planning process.
This range was set at the made additional contributions, by way of salary sacrifice in the year, to a separate beginning of the year by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the defined contribution scheme.
These benefits are the same as those open to all Board.
This is in line with our policy of rewarding upper quartile performance with employees within Capita in the UK.
For 2012, the Group achieved impressive growth in underlying profit before tax of 10% which meant that the maximum target set by the Committee was exceeded.
As a result, each Executive Director has been awarded a bonus worth 200% of base salary, at least half of which will be deferred into shares.
In 2011 no bonus was paid in respect of the period.
The bonus structure for 2013 will be unchanged from that adopted for 2012.
Governance Corporate Governance Capita plc 82 Remuneration report Share plans The Committee has currently decided that the performance condition that will apply to the Matching Shares is earnings per share EPS growth against the UK Plan name Retail Price Index RPI.
The Committee continues to believe that long term EPS Deferred Annual Bonus DAB plan growth is the most appropriate performance condition for the Company, as it is a key indicator of shareholder value creation.
The Committee believe that the Plan background and objective current EPS targets are very challenging in the current economic climate and The DAB was approved and adopted at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April market conditions.
2005 and new rules were adopted at the Annual General Meeting in May 2010.
Clawback In circumstances where the Committee considers in good faith that Shareholder approval was received for further amendment to the DAB at the the vesting of the Matching Award was determined on the basis of materially Annual General Meeting in May 2011.
The DAB is comprised of Deferred Shares, misstated or other financial data, it shall take such steps as it considers which form part of the annual bonus scheme, and Matching Shares.
Deferred appropriate to recover the difference in value between the incorrect Matching shares receive dividends declared during the deferral period that are paid in cash Award and the Matching Award that would have vested had the correct data at the end of the deferral period.
The Committee believes that this plan focuses participants on delivering strong Performance period and criteria year on year performance, which in turn drives long term shareholder value creation.
Executive and Divisional Directors are eligible to participate in the DAB.
2010 The DAB is split into two elements: EPS growth of RPI 4% per annum 33% of the award vests Deferred Award this is the deferred element of an individuals bonus.
This part EPS growth of RPI 14% per annum 100% of the award vests is not subject to performance conditions.
Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
Matching Award which is subject to performance conditions.
This is awarded 2011 onwards at a ratio of two shares for each gross share awarded under the Deferred Award.
EPS growth of RPI 4% per annum 33% of the award vests No award was made in 2012 as no bonus was awarded in respect of the 2011 EPS growth of RPI 12% per annum 100% of award vests financial period.
Plan operation Plan name The value of the Deferred Shares is determined by the entitlement under the annual bonus scheme, half of the bonus entitlement is deferred as determined Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 LTIP by the Committee: the remaining half can be taken as cash or can also be deferred Plan background and objective in a proportion decided by the participant.
Any deferral is made on a gross basis At the Annual General Meeting in 2008 the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP into Deferred Shares or as a net restricted share award.
The Deferred Shares are was approved by shareholders.
In calculating the LTIP awards granted to Executive held for a period of three years from the date of award.
They are only forfeited Directors, the Committee considered that a fixed number of shares was in the case of dismissal for gross misconduct.
preferable to fixing awards as a percentage of salary.
Under the plan rules the A conditional award of Matching Shares is made at the same time as the award Committee can award up to the higher of three times salary or 165,000 shares.
Participants are eligible to receive up to two Matching Shares Paul Pindar has been awarded the maximum of 165,000 shares in all years.
Matching Shares vest after a three year holding period On 23 February 2012, 645,000 shares were awarded to the Executive Directors to the extent to which performance criteria have been met.
as detailed in the table on page 84.
Governance Corporate Governance Capita plc 83 Plan operation Plan operation The vesting of awards will depend on the share price growth and EPS targets The value of the Pledged Shares was determined by the share price, and one third measured over a three year period.
An award will not vest if Capitas average share of the Pledged Shares were required to be purchased as new shares.
The price at the date of vesting is below the average share price at the date of grant.
remainder could be pledged from the existing shareholding.
If the share price target is satisfied, the proportion of awards that vest will be The Matching Award was made following the pledging of the shares and the determined by a range of EPS growth targets.
approval of the plan by shareholders.
The Matching Shares have a performance target of Total Shareholder Return TSR compared to the FTSE 100 Index over a The Committee may vary the performance conditions if it considers that the fixed four year period.
In addition, the Committee may consider various factors original conditions are not appropriate and a fair measure of performance.
Where when assessing the underlying performance but the minimum requirement for the performance conditions are not met, the award will lapse.
There will be no any vesting is that the earnings per share of the Company must have grown over re-testing of performance.
The Committee believe that the current EPS targets the performance period.
are very challenging in the current economic climate and market conditions.
Clawback In circumstances where the Committee considers in good faith that Performance period and criteria the vesting of the Matching Award was determined on the basis of materially 2010 misstated or other financial data, it shall take such steps as it considers EPS growth of RPI 4% per annum 20% of the award vests appropriate to recover the difference in value between the incorrect Matching Award and the Matching Award that would have vested had the correct data EPS growth of RPI 14% per annum 100% of the award vests been used.
Performance period and criteria 2011 onwards Capitas TSR over the performance period to be at upper quartile to the EPS growth of RPI 4% per annum 20% of the award vests constituents of the FTSE 100 Index.
EPS growth of RPI 12% per annum 100% of the award vests One third will vest for achieving median TSR and straight line vesting between Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
There will be no vesting of the Matching Award below median TSR.
Plan name Satisfaction of options Co-Investment Plan CIP When satisfying awards made under its share plans, the Company uses newly Plan background and objective issued, treasury or purchased shares as appropriate.
The Co-Investment Plan CIP was approved and adopted at the Annual General Dilution Meeting on 10 May 2011 as a one off plan for Paul Pindar.
All awards are made under plans that incorporate dilution limits as set out in The CIP is split into two elements.
Paul Pindar pledged the value of 1m of shares, the Guidelines for Share Incentive Schemes published by the Association of British made up of new and existing shares.
These Pledged Shares do not have any Insurers.
The estimated dilution from existing awards including executive and performance conditions as they are part of Paul Pindars personal shareholding.
all-employee share awards is approximately 6.48% of the Companys share The second part was awarded in May 2011 as a Matching Award with capital as at 31 December 2012. performance conditions over a four year period.
No further awards are planned under the CIP.
Half of this bonus will be paid in Deferred Shares under the DAB 4 The value is taken using the share price 755p at the end of the financial period under review 5 Dividends on the DAB Deferred Shares relate to the cash payment made at exercise in 2012 in relation to dividends accrued during the deferral period for Deferred Shares that were released in 2012 Out of the salary figures shown above, by way of salary sacrifice, Andy Parker paid 13,800 into separate defined contribution schemes.
The benefits of Gordon Hurst, Andy Parker, Vic Gysin and Maggi Bell are in respect of some or all of the following: private medical insurance, the provision of a company car allowance, work travel and accommodation.
The benefits of Paul Pindar, the highest paid Director, are in respect of a car allowance and private medical insurance.
Benefits are declared to HMRC as required.
Paul Pindar was additionally paid 50,000 in 2012 in his position as Chairman of Integrated Dental Holdings.
Governance Corporate Governance Capita plc 85 Directors Interests Shareholding guidelines 31 December 2012 or date of 31 December 2011 or date of Executive Directors are asked to hold 100% of salary in shares in the Company.
resignation ordinary shares of appointment if later ordinary This is built up over a period of five years from appointment.
The guidelines Directors 21 5 each shares of 21 5 each include shares held beneficially and also shares within the DAB that have Martin Bolland 55,000 40,000 been deferred over the three year period.
Share awards that are subject to Paul Pindar 878,349 1,701,903 performance conditions are not included.
Currently these holdings are as follows: Gordon Hurst 40,891 54,900 Shareholding for Andy Parker Executive Directors guidelines % of salary % held of target Vic Gysin 10,433 16,220 Paul Pindar 896,629 1781% 100% Maggi Bell 86,584 81,094 Gordon Hurst 54,296 146% 100% Gillian Sheldon Andy Parker 11,595 38% 38% Paul Bowtell Vic Gysin 19,695 65% 65% Martina King 717 717 Maggi Bell 97,552 320% 100% Nigel Wilson Paddy Doyle 27,289 27,289 Some held beneficially in trust Between the end of the financial year and 28 February 2013, Gordon Hurst acquired 35 shares under the Capita Share Ownership Plan, increasing his beneficial interest in ordinary shares of the Company to 40,926.
Executive Directors Beneficially held restricted stock Paul Pindar 21,736 Gordon Hurst 15,940 Andy Parker Vic Gysin 10,433 Maggi Bell 13,042 Governance Corporate Governance Capita plc 86 Remuneration report Share plan awards audited The Company utilises a number of different share plans to incentivise and align the interests of employees, including the Executive Directors, with that of shareholders.
Details regarding the various share plan schemes can be found on pages 82 and 83.
The table below sets out the Executive Directors interests in these plans.
Governance Corporate Governance Capita plc 88 Remuneration report The LTISAS and the ESOS have not been used for some years.
Paul Pindar and On behalf of the Committee I am delighted to propose and support the Vic Gysin have options remaining in these schemes respectively.
The performance Remuneration Report resolution at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting conditions for these options have already been met in full.
and would like to thank you for your continued support in Capita.
LTIP awards granted in 2009 were subject to the following performance The remuneration report has been approved by the Board and has been signed condition: 20% vested for EPS growth of RPI 4% per annum rising to 100% on behalf of the Board by: vesting for EPS growth of RPI 16% per annum between 2008 and 2011.
Actual Martina King Martin Bolland EPS growth above RPI over this period was 9.40% per annum so 56.02% of the Chair, Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Chairman awards became exercisable during 2012.
27 February 2013 27 February 2013 DAB awards granted in 2009 were subject to the following performance condition: 33% vested for EPS growth of RPI 6% per annum rising to 100% Other disclosures vesting for EPS growth of RPI 16% per annum between 2008 and 2011.
Actual Comparison of Total Shareholder Returns EPS growth above RPI over this period was 9.40% per annum so 56.02% of the The following chart compares the value of an investment of 100 in the awards became exercisable during 2012.
Companys shares with an investment of the same amount in the FTSE All Share The share price on 31 December 2012 was 755p and the highest and lowest share Index and the FTSE 350 Support Services Index over the five years starting price during 2012 were 781.5p and 602p respectively.
1 January 2008 assuming that all dividend income is reinvested.
The Committee All employee plans is of the opinion that this comparison provides a clear picture of the performance of the Group relative to both a wide range of companies in the United Kingdom The Group is a strong believer in the value of all-employee share plans.
Currently and also a specific group of companies within the same sector.
all employees are offered the opportunity to participate in the Capita Share Ownership Plan CSOP, the key terms of which are summarised below.
Capita vs. FTSE All Share Index and FTSE 350 Support Services Index Plan background and objective Value of investment of 100 on 1 January 2007 The CSOP is open to all employees of the Company, under certain eligibility criteria.
150 Plan operation 100 Under the plan employees may invest up to 125 per month in the Companys shares and the Company matches these at a ratio of three matching shares for every 20 participant shares.
50 Performance period and criteria There are no performance criteria to be satisfied under this scheme.
0 01.01.08 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.10 31.12.11 31.12.12 Capita Group FTSE All Share Index FTSE 350 Support Services A 100 investment in Capita shares on 1 January 2008 would be worth 122 at 31 December 2012 compared to 113 for an investment in the FTSE All Share Index and 150 for an investment in the FTSE 350 Support Services Index.
Value of 100 invested on 1 January 2007 Governance Corporate Governance Capita plc 89 Advisers to the Committee Shareholding voting During 2012 the Committee sought independent advice from We remained committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and take an active  PwC and Deloitte as required.
Deloitte was formally interest in voting outcomes.
Where there are substantial votes against resolutions appointed as the Committees adviser in November 2012 following a tender in relation to Directors remuneration, we seek to understand the reasons for any process.
such vote, and will detail here any actions in response to it.
During the year PwC also provided services to the Group in respect of overseas The following table sets out actual voting in respect of our previous remuneration tax compliance, share plans and other ad hoc tax projects and Deloitte also report: provided services to the Group in respect of tax, property, advice to internal audit Number of votes For Against Abstain and other ad hoc advisory projects.
2011 Directors 483m 27.1m 9.8m During the year, Paul Pindar was invited to provide further information to the Remuneration Report Committee on the performance and proposed remuneration for the Executive 2012 AGM Directors and other senior management.
95% 5% A vote abstained is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes For or Terms of reference Against a resolution.
The Remuneration Committee has formal terms of reference and these are Gordon Hurst agreed by the Board.
These include: Company Secretary setting and reviewing performance targets 27 February 2013 determining remuneration and benefits for Executive Directors and senior management setting the Chairmans fee level determining contractual terms for Executive Directors granting of long term incentive plan options.
The Committee also considers the remuneration packages within the organisation when reviewing the Executive Directors remuneration.
The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually and updated as required.
The terms of reference were recommended and approved by the Board.
These are available at www.
co. uk investors or copies can be requested from the Company Secretary.
