Accounts Other information Capita plc 139 Notes to the accounts Principal Group investments 16 Related party transactions Capita Holdings Limited Capita Resourcing Limited In the following, figures for purchases and sales are for transactions invoiced during the year inclusive of Value Holding and investment company.
All transactions are undertaken at normal market prices.
Capita Business Services Limited Capita IT Services Limited During the year the Company sold goods services in the normal course of business to Capita Gwent Consultancy Providing an integrated range of business process and customer management services to clients in the UK Designing, providing and managing networked computing and communication systems.
In addition the Company purchased goods services in the normal course of and Ireland.
At the balance sheet date the net amount receivable from Capita Gwent Premier Medical Group Limited Consultancy Limited was nil 2011: nil.
Capita Symonds Limited Medical services administration provider.
Providing a comprehensive range of project management, telecommunications engineering and construction During the year the Company sold goods services in the normal course of business to Urban Vision Partnership Capita Hartshead Limited related consultancy services.
In addition the Company purchased goods services in the normal course of Providing actuarial, pension consultancy and administrative services.
At the balance sheet date the net amount payable to Urban Vision Partnership Bluefin Corporate Consulting Limited Limited was nil 2011: 1.0m.
Capita Customer Management Limited Providing employee benefit advice, communication and administration services.
Providing business process outsourcing and customer management services.
During the year the Company sold goods services in the normal course of business to Service Birmingham Capita Registrars Limited Limited for 0.6m 2011: 1.8m.
In addition the Company purchased goods services in the normal course of Service Birmingham Limited Share registration and employee share scheme administration services.
At the balance sheet date the net amount receivable from Service Birmingham Providing ICT and business transformation outsourcing services to the public sector.
Capita Trust Company Limited Capita Gwent Consultancy Limited Corporate trustees and providers of trust and administration services.
Nigel Wilson, who was Senior Independent Director until his resignation from the board on 31 December 2012, Providing transport consultancy services.
was Group Chief Financial Officer of Legal & General Group Plc until June 2012 when he was appointed as Chief Capita Life & Pensions Limited Fish Administration Limited Executive Officer of that group.
The Legal & General Group Plc had an interest in 23,279,554 shares in Capita plc Administration and customer services for life and pensions operations.
Providing the sale of insurance services.
as at 20 February 2013 and has a contractual relationship with the Group.
Nigel Wilson did not participate in any Capita Life & Pensions Regulated Services Limited Legal & General board discussions or decisions in respect of that companys dealings with Capita plc which are Clinical Solutions International Limited Administration and customer services for life and pensions regulated operations.
conducted on an arms length basis.
Providing clinical software solutions to the global healthcare industry.
BDML Connect Limited Pursuant to the Company's share placing which completed on 24 April 2012, funds managed by Invesco Limited, a substantial shareholder in the Company and therefore a related party of the Company in each case, for the Insurance intermediary and agent for the transaction of insurance business.
purposes of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, subscribed, pro rata to their previously existing holdings, for an additional 8,000,000 shares in the Company at the placing price of 685p representing an aggregate further investment of 54.8m.
In addition, Invesco acquired a further 16,459,384 shares during the year at market value.
17 Pension costs The Company operates a defined contribution scheme.
The pension charge for the defined contribution scheme for the year was 1.9m 2011: 1.7m.
18 Share based payment The Company operates several share based payment plans and details of the schemes are disclosed in note 28 of the Groups consolidated financial statements on page 122.
The Group expense recognised for share based payments in respect of employee services received during the year to 31 December 2012 was 9.1m 2010: 8.3m, all of which arises from equity-settled share based payment transactions.
The total Company expense, after recharging subsidiary undertakings, charged to the profit and loss account in respect of FRS 20 Share based payment was 3.9m 2011: 3.4m.
