226323 RIT R&A pp36-pp41 06 03 2013 12:21 Page 36 Group Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting Accordingly, investments classified as available for The consolidated financial statements of the Group sale in the consolidated balance sheet will have to be and Company have been prepared in accordance with classified as financial assets at fair value through IFRS as adopted by the European Union, IFRIC profit or loss or for equities only at fair value through Interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act other comprehensive income.
IFRS 9 has not yet 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
been endorsed by the European Union.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Other future developments include the International The following standards and amendments to existing Accounting Standards Board IASB undertaking a standards have been published and are mandatory for comprehensive review of existing IFRS.
The IASB also the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after plans to issue new standards on leasing, the 1 January 2013 or later periods.
The Group has presentation of other comprehensive income and decided not to early adopt in the current period revenue recognition.
The Group will consider the accounts: financial impact of these new standards as they are finalised.
Endorsed: IFRS 7 Amendment Financial Instruments: on The financial statements have been prepared on a offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities going concern basis and under the historical cost IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements instruments and investment properties held at fair IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities value through profit and loss.
The principal accounting IFRS 13 Fair Value measurement policies adopted are set out below.
Where the IAS 19 Amendment Employee benefits presentational guidance set out in the Statement of IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements Recommended Practice SORP, Financial Statements IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint of Investment Trust Companies, issued by the Ventures Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of Not yet endorsed: IFRS, the Directors have sought to prepare the IFRS 1 Amendment First-time adoption of IFRS financial statements on a basis which complies with IFRS 9 Financial instruments classification and the recommendations of the SORP.
measurement IAS 12 Amendment Income taxes Basis of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the Accounting policies have been consistently applied financial statements of the Company and entities other than where new policies have been adopted.
controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a Investments in subsidiaries in the financial material impact on the financial statements in the statements of the Parent are carried at cost less any period of initial application, except for IFRS 9, provision for impairment made in accordance with Financial instruments: classification and IAS 36, Impairment of assets.
This is the first part of a new standard carried out twice each year concurrent with the on classification and measurement of financial Groups principal reporting dates.
instruments that will replace IAS 39.
IFRS 9 has three measurement categories: amortised cost: fair value The financial statements of the subsidiaries are through profit and loss: and fair value through other prepared the same reporting date using consistent comprehensive income.
All equity instruments are accounting policies.
Control is achieved where the still required to be measured at fair value, but fair Company has the power to govern the financial and value movements can be taken to profit or loss or operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain other comprehensive income based on an irrevocable benefits from its activities.
All intra-group one off instrument by instrument designation.
A debt transactions, balances, income and expenses are instrument is valued at amortised cost only if the eliminated on consolidation.
entity is holding it to collect contractual cash flows Investments in associates are held at fair value as and the cash flows represent principal and interest: allowed by IAS 28. otherwise it is at fair value through profit or loss.
36 Report and Accounts December 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc | Overview | Business Review | Governance | | Other Information | Financial Statements 226323 RIT R&A pp36-pp41 06 03 2013 12:21 Page 37 Group Accounting Policies Presentation of Income StatementInvestment management fees are considered to In order to reflect better the activities of an be indirect costs and are therefore allocated to investment trust company, and in accordance with revenue.
Performance fees are allocated to capital guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary as they arise as a result of the capital performance information which analyses the consolidated income of the relevant investment portfolio.
statement between items of a revenue and capital The Group has in force certain incentive nature has been presented within the consolidated arrangements whereby fees payable are based income statement and the consolidated statement of entirely on the increase in the values of certain comprehensive income.
Additionally, the net revenue investments.
The cost of these incentive return is the measure the Directors believe arrangements is considered to be a direct cost of appropriate in assessing the Companys compliance enhancing the value of these investments and is with certain requirements set out in Section 1158 of therefore allocated to capital.
The Group has in force long-term incentive Income arrangements for the executive management, and Dividend income from investments is recognised employees, whereby they receive additional when the right to receive payment has been remuneration based entirely on any increase in the established and this is normally the ex-dividend date.
The primary objective of the Provision is made for any dividends not expected to Company is to deliver long-term capital growth for be received.
The costs of these arrangements Where the Group has elected to receive dividends in derive principally from the capital performance of the the form of additional shares rather than cash, the Group and consequently the Directors consider it amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised appropriate to allocate the costs of these as income.
The excess, if any, in the value of shares arrangements in their entirety to capital.
received over the amount of the cash dividend The Group has adopted an Annual Incentive Scheme foregone is recognised as a capital gain in the AIS.
Under the AIS, a bonus pool is created for income statement.
participants based on the Companys trailing three UK dividend income is recorded at the amount year total net asset value growth, relative to the receivable without any attributable tax credit.
growth in the MSCI World index in Sterling.
The Overseas dividend income is shown gross of amount of the bonus is dependent on the capital withholding tax under Investment Income.
performance of the Group: therefore the Directors consider it appropriate to charge any bonus paid Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by under this scheme to capital.
reference to the principal outstanding at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate thatExpenses which are incidental to the disposal of discounts estimated future cash receipts through the an investment are deducted from the disposal expected life of the financial asset to that assets net proceeds of the investment.
Costs incurred in connection with aborted portfolio Income from investment properties is accounted for investment transactions are also allocated to capital.
Finance Costs Expenses Finance costs are accounted for on an effective yield All expenses and finance costs are accounted for on basis.
Since these costs are considered to be an an accruals basis.
In respect of the analysis between indirect cost of maintaining the value of the revenue and capital items presented within the investments they are allocated in full to revenue.
consolidated income statement, all expenses have been presented as revenue items except those items listed below: Expenses are allocated to capital where a direct connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
Expenses are allocated to revenue where there is an indirect connection.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2012 37 226323 RIT R&A pp36-pp41 06 03 2013 12:21 Page 38 Group Accounting Policies Foreign Currencies The carrying amount of the deferred tax asset is The individual financial statements of each Group entity reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to are presented in the currency of the primary economic the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient environment in which the entity operates, i. e. its taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated the asset to be recovered.
financial statements, the results and financial position Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are of each entity are expressed in Pounds Sterling expected to apply in the period when the liability is Sterling which is the functional currency of the settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is Company, and the presentational currency of the charged or credited in the consolidated income Group.
Transactions in currencies other than Sterling statement, except when it relates to items charged or are recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing on the credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, tax is also dealt with in equity.
monetary items and non-monetary assets and liabilities that are fair valued and are denominated in foreign Investments currencies are re-translated at the rates prevailing on Investments are recognised and derecognised on the the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on trade date where a purchase or sale is made under a re-translation are included in net profit or loss for the contract whose terms require delivery within the period in respect of those investments which are timeframe established by the market concerned, and classified as fair value through profit or loss.
All foreign are initially measured at fair value.
exchange gains and losses, except those arising from the translation of foreign subsidiaries, are recognised in All of the Groups investments are defined by IFRS as the consolidated income statement.
In accordance with investments designated at fair value through profit or IAS 21, a foreign currency translation reserve has been loss FVPL but are also described in these financial established in respect of the exchange movements statements as investments held at fair value.
arising on consolidation since 31 March 2004.
All investments are designated upon initial recognition Taxation as held at fair value and, except as noted below, are The tax expense represents the sum of the tax measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
currently payable and deferred tax.
Fair value is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending on the convention of the exchange The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for on which the investment is quoted.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax externally managed funds are valued at the closing as reported in the consolidated income statement price, the bid price or the single price as appropriate, because it excludes items of income or expense that released by the relevant investment manager.
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further Changes in the fair value of all investments held at excludes items that are not subject to tax or are not fair value are recognised in the consolidated income deductible for tax purposes.
The Groups liability for statement as a capital item.
On disposal, realised current tax is calculated using tax rates that have gains and losses are also recognised in the been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance consolidated income statement.
including bid-offer spreads, are included within gains or losses on investments held at fair value.
Investment trusts which have approval under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 are not subject Foreign exchange gains and losses arising on to tax on capital gains.
In view of the Companys investments held at fair value are included within the status as an investment trust, and its intention to changes in their fair values.
continue meeting the conditions required to maintain approval for the foreseeable future, the Company has not provided current or deferred tax on any capital gains or losses arising on the revaluation or disposal of investments.
38 Report and Accounts December 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc | Overview | Business Review | Governance | | Other Information | Financial Statements 226323 RIT R&A pp36-pp41 06 03 2013 12:21 Page 39 Group Accounting Policies In respect of unquoted instruments, or where the Provisions market for a financial instrument is not active, fair A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when value is established by using valuation techniques, the Group has a constructive or legal obligation as a which may include using recent arms length market result of a past event and it is probable that an transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties, outflow of economic benefits will be required to referenced to the current fair value of another settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, instrument that is substantially the same and provisions are determined by discounting the discounted cash flow analysis.
Where there is a expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that valuation technique commonly used by market reflects current market assessments of the time participants to price the instrument and that value of money and, where appropriate, the risks technique has been demonstrated to provide reliable specific to the liability.
estimates of prices obtained in actual market Share Based Payments transactions, that technique may also be utilised.
In accordance with IFRS 2, Share Based Payment, the The gains and losses on financial assets designated at Group is required to reflect in its Income Statement fair value through profit or loss exclude any related and Balance Sheet the effects of share-based interest income, dividend income and finance cost.
The Group has two share These items are disclosed separately in the settled incentive schemes, the Annual Incentive financial statements.
Scheme AIS and the Share Appreciation Rights SAR Plan, details of which are set out on pages 23 Investment properties are measured initially at cost, and 24 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
After initial recognition at cost, investment properties are carried Any bonus payments in excess of 150,000 under the at their fair values based on the professional valuation AIS are deferred into shares, the cost of which is made as of each reporting date.
Valuation surpluses spread over the service period.
and deficits arising in the period are included in the Following a change in the rules of the SAR Plan on income statement.
The gain or loss arising on the 22 September 2011 it now meets the definition of an disposal of a property is determined as the difference equity-settled scheme under IFRS 2.
All awards after between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount this date are measured at the fair value at grant date of the asset at the beginning of the period and is using a trinomial option valuation model.
The cost is recognised in the income statement.
then recognised through the income statement over Cash at Bank the service period.
Grants prior to 22 September 2011 Cash at bank in the balance sheet comprises cash were fair valued as at that date, any residual costs balances and deposits held at call and short notice continue to be amortised through the income with banks.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on statement in line with the un-expired service period.
demand and which form an integral part of the Shares required to settle the estimated future Groups cash management are included as a liabilities from grants or exercises under both component of cash and cash equivalents for the schemes are purchased by an Employee Benefit Trust purposes of the cash flow statement.
which is consolidated by the Group under SIC 12 Cash Equivalents Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
The cost of Short-term highly liquid investments with original own shares held at the end of the period by the maturities of three months or less are also included Employee Benefit Trust are reflected in the Groups as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the Own Shares Reserve on the consolidated balance purposes of the cash flow statement.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2012 39 226323 RIT R&A pp36-pp41 06 03 2013 12:21 Page 40 Group Accounting Policies Property, Plant And Equipment Derivative Financial Instruments Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less Derivative financial instruments, including futures, accumulated depreciation.
It is calculated by the Group options and other derivative instruments, are stated in on a straight line basis by reference to original cost, the balance sheet at fair value.
The movements in fair estimated useful life and residual value.
Cost includes value of dealing investments held by RIT Capital the original purchase price of the asset and the costs Partners Securities Limited are included in the attributable to bringing the asset to its working revenue return column of the income statement.
For condition for its intended use.
The period of estimated other derivatives that are capital in nature, the useful life for this purpose is between three and four associated change in value is presented as a capital years.
item in the income statement.
The Group has adopted trade date accounting.
Accordingly, derivative Pensions financial instruments are recognised on the date the J Rothschild Capital Management Limited, a whollyGroup enters into the relevant contract, and are owned subsidiary undertaking, is a participating derecognised on the date which it commits to their employer in the Groups non-contributory funded, sale.
Securities sold short are valued at their offer defined benefit retirement scheme, which is closed prices in accordance with IAS 39. to new members and the assets of which are held in a trustee administered fund.
Allocation to Capital All expenses and interest payable are accounted for The Group accounts for its defined benefit retirement on an accruals basis.
In respect of the analysis scheme by reference to IAS 19, Employee Benefits.
between revenue and capital items presented within For the defined benefit retirement scheme, the cost the income statement, the statement of of benefits accruing during the period in respect of comprehensive income and the statement of changes current and past service is charged to the income in equity.
statement and allocated to revenue.
The expected return on the schemes assets, and the increase in The following are presented as capital items: the present value of the schemes liabilities arising gains and losses on the realisation of investments from the passage of time are also recognised in the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are increases and decreases in the valuation of recognised in the statement of comprehensive investments held at the period end income.
An actuarial valuation of the defined benefit retirement scheme is undertaken every three years realised and unrealised gains and losses on as at 1 January and is updated as at each principle transactions undertaken to hedge an exposure of a reporting date.
The valuation is carried out using the capital nature projected unit credit method of funding basis.
The income statement also includes costs incurred inrealised and unrealised exchange differences of a respect of defined contribution schemes, comprising capital nature the contributions payable in the period.
expenses, together with the related taxation Other Receivables Other Payables effect, allocated to capital in accordance with the Other receivables payables do not carry any interest above policies and are short-term in nature: they are accordingly the cost of purchasing ordinary shares for stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate cancellation.
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Bank Borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded initially at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs and subsequently at fair value.
Finance costs, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
40 Report and Accounts December 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc | Overview | Business Review | Governance | | Other Information | Financial Statements 226323 RIT R&A pp36-pp41 06 03 2013 12:21 Page 41 Group Accounting Policies Critical Accounting Assumptions and Judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas requiring a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are set out below: Unquoted Investments Unquoted investments are valued at managements best estimate of fair value in accordance with IFRS having regard to International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines as recommended by the British Venture Capital Association.
The principles which the Group applies are set out on pages 38 to 39.
The inputs into the valuation methodologies adopted include observable historical data such as earnings or cash flow as well as more subjective data such as earnings forecasts or discount rates.
As a result of this, the determination of fair value requires significant management judgement.
Retirement Benefit Obligation The determination of the pension cost and the defined benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme depends on the selection of certain assumptions, which include the discount rate, inflation rate, salary growth and longevity.
Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of the pension obligation.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year: this is the interest rate that is used to calculate the present value of the estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligation.
Differences arising from actual experience or future changes in assumptions will be reflected in subsequent accounting periods.
Deferred Tax Asset Management judgement is required in determining the deferred tax assets and liabilities to be recognised in the financial statements.
In particular, judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised, with consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable income.
Share Based Payments The determination of the fair value of SAR grants was calculated using a trinomial option valuation model.
The assumptions applied by the model are set out in note 26.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2012 41
