224233 RIT R&A pp44-pp49 31 05 2012 21:36 Page 44 Group Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting instrument is valued at amortised cost only if the The consolidated financial statements of the Group entity is holding it to collect contractual cash flows and Company have been prepared in accordance with and the cash flows represent principal and interest: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as otherwise it is at fair value through profit or loss.
adopted by the European Union, IFRIC Interpretations Accordingly, investments classified as available for and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable sale in the consolidated balance sheet will have to be to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company is classified as financial assets at fair value through domiciled in the United Kingdom.
profit or loss or for equities only at fair value through other comprehensive income.
IFRS 9 has not yet The following standards and amendments to existing been endorsed by the European Union.
The Group standards, have been published and are mandatory for does not believe that the impact of IFRS 10 will be the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 significant, particularly as it intends to take advantage April 2012 or later periods, the Group has decided not of the Investment Company exemption proposed by to early adopt in the current year accounts: the exposure draft in relation to IFRS 10.
Endorsed: Other future developments include the International IFRS 7 Amendment Financial Instruments: Accounting Standards Board IASB undertaking a Disclosures Transfers of financial assets comprehensive review of existing IFRS.
The IASB also plans to issue new standards on leasing, the Not yet endorsed: presentation of other comprehensive income and IFRS 1 Amendment First-time adoption of IFRS revenue recognition.
The Group will consider the IFRS 7 Amendment Financial Instruments: on financial impact of these new standards as they are offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities finalised.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments classification and measurement The financial statements have been prepared on a IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements going concern basis and under the historical cost IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities instruments and investment properties.
The principal IFRS 13 Fair Value measurement accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where IAS 1 Amendment Financial statement the presentational guidance set out in the Statement presentation of Recommended Practice SORP, Financial IAS 12 Amendment Income taxes Statements of Investment Trust Companies, issued IAS 19 Amendment Employee benefits by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint IFRS, the Directors have sought to prepare the Ventures financial statements on a basis which complies with IAS 32 Amendment Financial Instruments: the recommendations of the SORP.
presentation Basis of Consolidation The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of The consolidated financial statements incorporate the these standards and interpretations will have a financial statements of the Company and entities material impact on the financial statements in the controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up period of initial application, except for IFRS 9, to 31 March each year.
Financial instruments: classification and measurement.
This is the first part of a new standard Investments in subsidiaries in the financial on classification and measurement of financial statements of the parent are carried at cost less any instruments that will replace IAS 39.
IFRS 9 has three provision for impairment made in accordance with measurement categories: amortised cost: fair value IAS 36, Impairment of assets.
Impairment tests are through profit and loss: and fair value through other carried out twice each year as at 30 September and comprehensive income.
All equity instruments are 31 March.
still required to be measured at fair value, but fair The financial statements of the subsidiaries are value movements can be taken to profit or loss or prepared as of the same reporting date using other comprehensive income based on an irrevocable consistent accounting policies.
Control is achieved one off instrument by instrument designation.
A debt 44 Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc | Overview | Business Review | Governance | | Other Information | Financial Statements 224233 RIT R&A pp44-pp49 31 05 2012 21:36 Page 45 Group Accounting Policies where the Company has the power to govern theExpenses are allocated to capital where a direct financial and operating policies of an investee entity connection with the maintenance or enhancement so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
All intraof the value of the investments can be group transactions, balances, income and expenses demonstrated.
Expenses are allocated to revenue are eliminated on consolidation.
where there is an indirect connection.
Presentation of Income StatementInvestment management fees are considered to In order to reflect better the activities of an be indirect costs and are therefore allocated to investment trust company, and in accordance with revenue.
Performance fees are allocated to capital guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary as they arise as a result of the capital performance information which analyses the consolidated income of the relevant investment portfolio.
statement between items of a revenue and capital The Group has in force certain incentive nature has been presented within the consolidated arrangements whereby fees payable are based income statement and the consolidated statement of entirely on the increase in the values of certain comprehensive income.
Additionally, the net revenue investments.
The cost of these incentive return is the measure the Directors believe arrangements is considered to be a direct cost of appropriate in assessing the Companys compliance enhancing the value of these investments and is with certain requirements set out in Section 1158 of therefore allocated to capital.
The Group has in force long-term incentive Income arrangements for the Executive Directors of RIT, and Dividend income from investments is recognised other employees, whereby they receive additional when the shareholders right to receive payment has remuneration based entirely on any increase in the been established and this is normally the ex-dividend Companys share price.
The primary objective of the date.
Provision is made for any dividends not Company is to deliver long-term capital growth for expected to be received.
The costs of these arrangements Where the Group has elected to receive dividends in derive principally from the capital performance of the the form of additional shares rather than cash, the Group and consequently the Directors consider it amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised appropriate to allocate the costs of these as income.
The excess, if any, in the value of shares arrangements in their entirety to capital.
received over the amount of the cash dividend The Group has adopted an Annual Incentive Scheme foregone is recognised as a capital gain in the AIS.
Under the AIS, a bonus pool is created for income statement.
participants based on the Companys trailing threeUK dividend income is recorded at the amount year total net asset value growth, relative to the receivable without any attributable tax credit.
growth in the MSCI World index in.
The amount Overseas dividend income is shown gross of of the bonus is dependent on the capital withholding tax under Investment Income.
performance of the Group: therefore the Directors consider it appropriate to charge the whole of the Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by bonus to capital.
reference to the principal outstanding at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate thatExpenses which are incidental to the disposal of discounts estimated future cash receipts through the an investment are deducted from the disposal expected life of the financial asset to that assets net proceeds of the investment.
Costs incurred in connection with aborted portfolio Expenses investment transactions are also allocated to capital.
All expenses and finance costs are accounted for on Finance Costs an accruals basis.
In respect of the analysis between Finance costs are accounted for on an effective yield revenue and capital items presented within the basis.
Since these costs are considered to be an consolidated income statement, all expenses have indirect cost of maintaining the value of the been presented as revenue items except those items investments they are allocated in full to revenue.
listed below: RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 45 224233 RIT R&A pp44-pp49 31 05 2012 21:36 Page 46 Group Accounting Policies Foreign Currencies taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of The individual financial statements of each Group entity the asset to be recovered.
are presented in the currency of the primary economic Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are environment in which the entity operates, i. e. its expected to apply in the period when the liability is functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is financial statements, the results and financial position charged or credited in the consolidated income of each entity are expressed in Pounds Sterling statement, except when it relates to items charged or Sterling which is the functional currency of the credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred Company, and the presentational currency of the tax is also dealt with in equity.
Transactions in currencies other than Sterling are recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing on the Investments dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, Investments are recognised and derecognised on the monetary items and non-monetary assets and liabilities trade date where a purchase or sale is made under a that are fair valued and are denominated in foreign contract whose terms require delivery within the currencies are re-translated at the rates prevailing on timeframe established by the market concerned, and the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on reare initially measured at fair value.
translation are included in net profit or loss for the year in respect of those investments which are classified as All of the Groups investments are defined by IFRS as fair value through profit or loss.
All foreign exchange investments designated at fair value through profit or gains and losses, except those arising from the loss FVPL but are also described in these financial translation of foreign subsidiaries, are recognised in the statements as investments held at fair value.
In accordance with IAS 21, a foreign currency translation reserve has been All investments are designated upon initial recognition established in respect of the exchange movements as held at fair value and, except as noted below, are arising on consolidation since 31 March 2004. measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Fair value is either the bid price or the last traded Taxation price, depending on the convention of the exchange The tax expense represents the sum of the tax on which the investment is quoted.
Investments in currently payable and deferred tax.
externally managed funds are valued at the closing price, the bid price or the single price as appropriate, The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for released by the relevant investment manager.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax Changes in the fair value of all investments held at as reported in the consolidated income statement fair value are recognised in the consolidated income because it excludes items of income or expense that statement as a capital item.
On disposal, realised are taxable or deductible in other years and it further gains and losses are also recognised in the excludes items that are not subject to tax or are not consolidated income statement.
Transaction costs, deductible for tax purposes.
The Groups liability for including bid-offer spreads, are included within gains current tax is calculated using tax rates that have or losses on investments held at fair value.
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses arising on investments held at fair value are included within the Investment trusts which have approval under Section changes in their fair values.
1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 are not subject to tax on capital gains.
In view of the Companys In respect of unquoted instruments, or where the status as an investment trust, and its intention to market for a financial instrument is not active, fair continue meeting the conditions required to obtain value is established by using valuation techniques, approval for the foreseeable future, the Company has which may include using recent arms length market not provided current or deferred tax on any capital transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties, gains or losses arising on the revaluation or disposal referenced to the current fair value of another of investments.
instrument that is substantially the same and discounted cash flow analysis.
Where there is a The carrying amount of the deferred tax asset is valuation technique commonly used by market reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to participants to price the instrument and that the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 46 Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc | Overview | Business Review | Governance | | Other Information | Financial Statements 224233 RIT R&A pp44-pp49 31 05 2012 21:36 Page 47 Group Accounting Policies technique has been demonstrated to provide reliable Any bonus payments in excess of 150,000 under the estimates of prices obtained in actual market Annual Incentive Scheme are deferred into shares, transactions, that technique may also be utilised.
the cost of which is spread over the service period.
The gains and losses on financial assets designated at Following a change in the rules of the Share fair value through profit or loss exclude any related Appreciation Rights SAR plan on 22 September 2011 interest income, dividend income and finance cost.
it now meets the definition of an equity-settled These items are disclosed separately in the scheme under IFRS 2.
All awards after this date are financial statements.
measured at the fair value at grant date using a trinomial option valuation model.
The cost is then Investment properties are measured initially at cost, recognised through the income statement over the including related transaction costs.
Grants prior to 22 September 2011 recognition at cost, investment properties are carried were fair valued as at that date, any residual costs at their fair values based on the professional valuation continue to be amortised through the income made as of each reporting date.
Valuation surpluses statement in line with the un-expired service period.
and deficits arising in the year are included in the At the end of each reporting period the charge is income statement.
The gain or loss arising on the reversed if it appears likely that the performance disposal of a property is determined as the difference criteria will not be met, with any changes to fair value between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount recognised in the profit or loss for the period.
of the asset at the beginning of the period and is recognised in the income statement.
Shares required to settle the estimated future liabilities from grants or exercises under both Cash and Cash Equivalents schemes are purchased by an Employee Benefit Trust Cash at bank in the balance sheet comprises cash which is consolidated by the Group under SIC 12 balances and deposits held at call and short notice Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on own shares held at the end of the year by the EBT are demand and which form an integral part of the reflected in the Groups Own shares reserve on the Groups cash management are included as a consolidated balance sheet.
component of cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the cash flow statement.
Short-term Property, Plant And Equipment highly liquid investments with original maturities of Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less three months or less are also included as a depreciation.
It is calculated by the Group on a straight component of cash and cash equivalents for the line basis by reference to original cost, estimated useful purposes of the cash flow statement.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to Provisions bringing the asset to its working condition for its A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when intended use.
The period of estimated useful life for the Group has a constructive or legal obligation as a this purpose is between three and four years.
result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Share-Based Payments In accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, the Group is required to reflect in its Income Statement and financial position the effects of share-based payment transactions.
The Group has two share settled incentive schemes, the Annual Incentive Scheme and the Share Appreciation Rights SAR Plan details of which are set out on pages 24 and 25 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 47 224233 RIT R&A pp44-pp49 31 05 2012 21:36 Page 48 Group Accounting Policies Pensions statement.
The Group has adopted trade date JRCM, a wholly-owned subsidiary undertaking, is a accounting.
Accordingly, derivative financial participating employer in the Groups non-contributory instruments are recognised on the date the Group funded, defined benefit retirement scheme, which is enters into the relevant contract, and are closed to new members and the assets of which are derecognised on the date which it commits to their held in a trustee administered fund.
Securities sold short are valued at their offer prices in accordance with IAS 39.
The Group accounts for its defined benefit retirement scheme by reference to IAS 19, Employee Benefits.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments For the defined benefit retirement scheme, the cost or non-financial host contracts are treated as separate of benefits accruing during the year in respect of derivatives when their economic characteristics and current and past service is charged to the income risks are not closely related to those of the host statement and allocated to revenue.
The expected contracts and the financial instrument is not classified return on the schemes assets, and the increase in at fair value through profit or loss.
the present value of the schemes liabilities arising Historically, the Group had applied hedge accounting from the passage of time are also recognised in the to certain interest rate swap contracts.
Actuarial gains and losses are 2010 the Group fide-designated its last remaining recognised in the statement of comprehensive interest rate swap which had previously been income.
An actuarial valuation of the defined benefit considered as qualifying for hedge accounting.
retirement scheme is undertaken every three years as at 1 January and is updated as at each 31 March Allocation to Capital and 30 September during the intervening valuation All expenses and interest payable are accounted for dates.
The valuation is carried out using the projected on an accruals basis.
In respect of the analysis unit credit method of funding basis.
The income between revenue and capital items presented within statement also includes costs incurred in respect of the income statement, the statement of defined contribution schemes and these costs comprehensive income and the statement of changes comprise the contributions payable in the year.
Other Receivables Other Payables The following are presented as realised capital items: Other receivables payables do not carry any interest and are short-term in nature: they are accordingly gains and losses on the realisation of investments stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
realised exchange differences of a capital nature Bank Borrowingsexpenses, together with the related taxation Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are effect, allocated to capital in accordance with the recorded initially at the proceeds received, net of above policies direct issue costs.
Finance costs, including premiums realised gains and losses on transactions payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue undertaken to hedge an exposure of a capital costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the nature income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the the cost of purchasing ordinary shares for instrument to the extent that they are not settled in cancellation.
the period in which they arise.
The following are presented as unrealised capital items: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting increases and decreases in the valuation of Derivative financial instruments, including futures, investments held at the year-end options and other derivative instruments, are stated in the balance sheet at fair value.
The movements in fairunrealised exchange differences of a capital nature value of dealing investments held by RIT Capital Partners Securities Ltd are included in the revenueunrealised gains and losses on transactions return column of the income statement.
If the undertaken to hedge an exposure of a capital derivative is capital in nature, the associated change nature.
in value is presented as a capital item in the income 48 Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc | Overview | Business Review | Governance | | Other Information | Financial Statements 224233 RIT R&A pp44-pp49 31 05 2012 21:36 Page 49 Group Accounting Policies Critical Accounting Assumptions and Judgements Deferred Tax Asset The preparation of financial statements in conformity Management judgement is required in determining with IFRS requires the use of certain critical the deferred tax assets and liabilities to be recognised accounting assumptions.
It also requires in the financial statements.
In particular, judgement is management to exercise its judgement in the process used when assessing the extent to which deferred of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas tax assets should be recognised, with consideration requiring a higher degree of judgement or complexity, given to the timing and level of future taxable income.
or areas where assumptions and estimates are Long-term Incentive Plan significant to the consolidated financial statements, The fair value of historical SARs on conversion to a are set out below.
share settled scheme as at 22 September 2011, Unquoted Investments along with the determination of the fair value of all Unquoted investments are valued at managements subsequent grants was calculated using a trinomial best estimate of fair value in accordance with IFRS option valuation model.
The assumptions applied by having regard to International Private Equity and the model are set out in note 19.
Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines as recommended by the British Venture Capital Association.
The principles which the Group applies are set out on pages 46 to 47.
The inputs into the valuation methodologies adopted include observable historical data such as earnings or cash flow as well as more subjective data such as earnings forecasts or discount rates.
As a result of this, the determination of fair value requires significant management judgement.
Retirement Benefit Obligation The determination of the pension cost and the defined benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme depends on the selection of certain assumptions, which include the discount rate, inflation rate, salary growth and longevity.
Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of the pension obligation.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year: this is the interest rate that is used to calculate the present value of the estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligation.
Differences arising from actual experience or future changes in assumptions will be reflected in subsequent accounting periods.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 49
