| Overview | Business Review | Governance | Financial Statements | | Other Information 224233 RIT R&A pp95-pp104 31 05 2012 22:10 Page 99 Explanatory Notes RESOLUTION 1 REPORT AND ACCOUNTS The Directors of the Company are required by company law to present the Annual Report and Accounts, the Directors Report and the Report of the Independent Auditors on the accounts to the meeting.
RESOLUTION 2 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Approval of the Directors Remuneration Report is sought under Resolution 2.
The Report is set out on pages 21 to 27 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
RESOLUTION 3 FINAL DIVIDEND Members approval for the payment of a final dividend of 8 pence per ordinary share is sought under Resolution 3.
In addition the Company intends to pay an interim dividend of 20 pence per ordinary share at the same time as the final dividend above, making a total distribution of 28 pence per ordinary share.
However, the Directors declaration of the interim dividend is conditional upon the passing of Resolution 21 Amendment to the Articles of Association, as this would be a distribution of capital profits, and the Directors confirming such interim dividend is payable at the AGM.
The existing Articles of Association contain a restriction on the distribution of capital profits as such a restriction was formerly a requirement for the Company to be approved as an investment trust and enjoy certain tax benefits.
As described in the notes to Resolution 21 below, following a change in tax legislation investment companies are now able to distribute capital profits without adverse tax consequences and so, before a distribution of capital profits can be made by the Company, it is necessary to pass Resolution 21 and amend the Articles of Association.
RESOLUTIONS 4 TO 14 ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS The UK Corporate Governance Code stipulates that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should stand for reelection annually.
Accordingly, all directors of the Company are standing for election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Non-executive Directors of the Company are chosen on the basis of their background and experience and for the contribution that they can make both generally and in specific areas relevant to the business of the Company.
The Board confirms that these criteria were considered in respect of the two Directors appointed during the year and who are standing for election at the Annual General Meeting, in addition to the role of each such Director in relation to the strategic partnerships with which each Director is associated.
Following the performance evaluation of the Board, it is confirmed that the performance of each Director standing for re-election continues to be satisfactory and effective and that each continues to demonstrate commitment in the role.
Biographical information on all the Directors, including those standing for election or re-election, is shown on pages 14 to 16 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
RESOLUTION 15 REAPPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS Company law requires all companies, at each general meeting at which accounts are laid, to appoint auditors who will remain in office until the next general meeting at which accounts are laid.
The Board, having accepted the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, propose that  LLP be reappointed as the Companys auditors.
RESOLUTION 16 REMUNERATION OF AUDITORS This resolution authorises the Directors to fix the remuneration of  LLP as the Companys auditors and is proposed separately from the resolution for the reappointment of auditors in accordance with best practice guidelines.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 99 224233 RIT R&A pp95-pp104 31 05 2012 22:10 Page 100 Explanatory Notes RESOLUTION 17 RENEWAL OF DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES This resolution which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution will, if approved, allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares in RIT Capital Partners plc.
The authority in paragraph i of Resolution 17 will allow the Directors to allot new shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert other securities into, shares up to a nominal value of 51,288,687, which is equivalent to approximately 33% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 31 May 2012.
The authority in paragraph ii in Resolution 17 will allow the Directors to allot new shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert other securities into, shares only in connection with a rights issue up to a further nominal value of 51,288,687, which is equivalent to approximately 33% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company, as at 31 May 2012.
This is in line with corporate governance guidelines.
There are no present plans to undertake a rights issue or to allot new shares other than shares to be allotted by the Company in connection with strategic partnerships, including the strategic partnership with the Edmond fide Rothschild Group announced on 16 March 2012.
The Directors consider it desirable to have the maximum flexibility permitted by corporate governance guidelines to respond to market developments and to enable allotments to take place to finance business opportunities as they arise.
If the resolution is passed the authority will expire on the earlier of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2013 or on 30 September 2013.
RESOLUTION 18 DISAPPLICATION OF PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS This special resolution will renew the Directors authority to allot shares for cash, free from the pre-emption restrictions set out in the Companies Act 2006.
Paragraph a of Resolution 18 is to authorise the Directors to allot new shares pursuant to the authority given by paragraph i of Resolution 17, or sell treasury shares, for cash I in connection with a pre-emptive offer or rights issue or II otherwise up to a nominal value of 7,693,303, equivalent to five per cent of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 31 May 2012, in each case without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
Paragraph b of Resolution 18 authorises the Directors to allot new shares pursuant to the authority given in paragraph ii of Resolution 17, or sell treasury shares, for cash only in connection with a rights issue without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holding.
This authority will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting in 2013, or on 30 September 2013 if earlier.
The Directors consider the authority in Resolution 18 to be appropriate in order to allow the Company flexibility to finance business opportunities or to conduct a pre-emptive offer or rights issue without the need to comply with the strict requirements of the statutory pre-emption provisions.
This power remains in line with the guidelines of the Pre-emption Group, which is supported by the Association of British Insurers and National Association of Pension Funds.
The Directors intend to observe the institutional guidelines not to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis other than pursuant to a rights issue or pre-emptive offer in excess of an amount equal to 7.5% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company within a rolling 3-year period without prior consultation with shareholders.
RESOLUTION 19 PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and will allow RIT Capital Partners plc to make market purchases of up to 23,064,523 of its own ordinary shares or such a number of ordinary shares as represents 14.99% of the Companys issued capital at the date of the meeting, whichever is less at prices not less than 1 per share and not more than a 5% above the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding such a purchase, or b the higher of the current bid for the Companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange at the time of the purchase and the price of the last independent trade in the ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange at the time of purchase.
100 Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc | Overview | Business Review | Governance | Financial Statements | | Other Information 224233 RIT R&A pp95-pp104 31 05 2012 22:10 Page 101 Explanatory Notes Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the Company can hold the shares which have been repurchased itself as Treasury Shares and either resell them for cash or cancel them, either immediately, or at a point in the future.
Accordingly, if the Company were to purchase any of its own shares under the authority conferred by this resolution, the Directors may consider holding them as Treasury Shares or the Directors may cancel the shares.
Such a decision will be made by the Directors at the time of purchase on the basis of the Companys and shareholders best interests.
The Directors only intend to exercise the authority conferred in this resolution in limited circumstances and will only purchase shares for the purposes of the Groups employee share schemes, and in other circumstances where, after taking account of the overall financial position of the Group, the Directors consider the effect will be to increase the net asset value per share, and that it is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
RESOLUTION 20 NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETINGS Under the Companies Act 2006, as amended, the notice period required for all general meetings of the Company is 21 days.
Annual General Meetings will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice but shareholders can approve a shorter notice period for other general meetings, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility offered by the shorter notice period would be in the best interests of shareholders generally, taking into account the circumstances and business of the meeting, including whether the business is time sensitive.
RESOLUTION 21 AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION It is proposed in this resolution to amend the Articles of Association in order to delete Article 118 of the Companys current Articles of Association and replace it with a new Article 118, taking into account recent changes in tax legislation.
No other Articles are proposed to be changed.
Following changes in tax legislation, investment trust companies are now able to distribute capital profits without adverse tax consequences.
The proposed amendment to the Articles of Association will enable the Company to distribute such capital profits by removing the prohibition on such distributions from Article 118.
The new Article 118 being proposed is No dividend shall be paid otherwise than out of profits available for distribution under the provisions of the Statutes.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 101
