GRA12 5a Financial Statement 351 387 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:31 Page 362 Accounting policies continued 7.
Property, plant and equipment excluding goodwill or property, plant and equipment is recognised as it Items of property, plant and equipment except investment property - see arises provided the increased carrying value is not greater than it would Accounting policy 9 are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and have been had no impairment loss been recognised.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment on goodwill are not reversed.
comprises major components having different useful lives, they are accounted for separately.
Investment property Investment property comprises freehold and leasehold properties that are Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis so as to held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both.
Investment write-off the depreciable amount of property, plant and equipment property is not depreciated but is stated at fair value based on valuations including assets owned and let on operating leases over their estimated by independent registered valuers.
Fair value is based on current prices useful lives.
The depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its for similar properties in the same location and condition.
Any gain or loss residual value.
The estimated useful lives of the arising from a change in fair value is recognised in profit or loss.
Rental Groups property, plant and equipment are: income from investment property is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease in Other operating income.
Lease incentives Freehold and long leasehold buildings 50 years granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income.
Short leaseholds unexpired period of the lease Property adaptation costs 10 to 15 years 10.
Foreign currencies Computer equipment up to 5 years The Group's consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling Other equipment 4 to 15 years which is the functional currency of the company.
The residual value and useful life of property, plant and equipment are Group entities record transactions in foreign currencies in their functional reviewed at each balance sheet date and updated for any changes to currency - the currency of the primary economic environment in which previous estimates.
they operate - at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 8.
Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the equipment foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any exchange differences arising on the settlement of foreign currency indication that its intangible assets, or property, plant and equipment are transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities impaired.
If any such indication exists, the Group estimates the are reported in income from trading activities except for differences recoverable amount of the asset and the impairment loss if any.
Goodwill arising on cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes operations see Accounting policy 24. in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at If an asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from those fair value are translated into the relevant functional currency at the of other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount is foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the values are determined.
determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
A Translation differences arising on non-monetary items measured at fair cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that value are recognised in profit or loss except for differences arising on generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows available-for-sale non-monetary financial assets, for example equity from other assets or groups of assets.
For the purposes of impairment shares, which are recognised in other comprehensive income unless the testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each asset is the hedged item in a fair value hedge.
of the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combination.
The recoverable amount of an Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair asset or cash-generating unit is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into sterling at and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of future cash flows foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Income and from the asset or cash-generating unit discounted at a rate that reflects expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average market interest rates adjusted for risks specific to the asset or cashexchange rates unless these do not approximate to the foreign exchange generating unit that have not been taken into account in estimating future rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
If the recoverable amount of an intangible or tangible asset is differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation are less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognised immediately recognised in other comprehensive income.
The amount accumulated in in profit or loss and the carrying value of the asset reduced by the amount equity is reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal or partial of the loss.
A reversal of an impairment loss on intangible assets disposal of a foreign operation.
