GRA12 7 Additional Info 516 539 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:52 Page 528 Glossary of terms Alt-A Alternative A-paper - a US description for mortgage loans with a Bear steepener - a steepening of the yield curve caused by long-term higher credit quality than sub-prime loans but with features that disqualify rates increasing faster than short term rates.
the borrower from a traditional prime loan.
Alt-A lending characteristics include limited documentation: high loan-to-value ratio: secured on nonBIPRU - the prudential sourcebook for banks, building societies and owner occupied properties: and debt-to-income ratio above normal limits.
The part of the Financial Services Authority's FSA Handbook that sets out detailed prudential requirements for the banks Arrears - the aggregate of contractual payments due on a debt that have that they regulate.
not been met by the borrower.
A loan or other financial asset is said to be 'in arrears' when payments have not been made.
Bull flattener - a flattening of the yield curve in which long term rates are decreasing faster than short term rates.
Asset-backed commercial paper ABCP - a form of asset-backed security generally issued by a commercial paper conduit.
Certificates of deposit CDs - bearer negotiable instruments acknowledging the receipt of a fixed term deposit at a specified interest Asset-backed securities ABS - securities that represent interests in rate.
They are issued by a special purpose entity following a securitisation.
The underlying portfolios commonly comprise Collateralised bond obligations CBOs - asset-backed securities for residential or commercial mortgages but can include any class of asset which the underlying asset portfolios are bonds, some of which may be that yields predictable cash flows.
Payments on the securities depend sub-investment grade.
primarily on the cash flows generated by the assets in the underlying pool and other rights designed to assure timely payment, such as guarantees Collateralised debt obligations CDOs - asset-backed securities for or other credit enhancements.
Collateralised bond obligations, which the underlying asset portfolios are debt obligations: either bonds collateralised debt obligations, collateralised loan obligations, commercial collateralised bond obligations or loans collateralised loan obligations mortgage backed securities and residential mortgage backed securities or both.
The credit exposure underlying synthetic CDOs derives from are all types of ABS.
The CDOs issued by an individual vehicle are usually divided in different tranches: senior tranches rated AAA, Asset quality AQ band - probability of default banding for all mezzanine tranches AA to BB, and equity tranches unrated.
Losses counterparties on a scale of 1 to 10. are borne first by the equity securities, next by the junior securities, and finally by the senior securities: junior tranches offer higher coupons Assets under management - assets managed by the Group on behalf of interest payments to compensate for their increased risk.
Collateralised loan obligations CLOs - asset-backed securities for which Bank levy - a levy that applies to UK banks, building societies and the UK the underlying asset portfolios are loans, often leveraged loans.
operations of foreign banks from 1 January 2011.
The levy is payable based on a percentage of the chargeable equity and liabilities of the bank Collectively assessed loan impairment provisions - impairment loss as at the balance sheet date.
provisions in respect of impaired loans, such as credit cards or personal loans, that are below individual assessment thresholds.
Such provisions Basel II - the capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel Committee are established on a portfolio basis, taking account of the level of arrears, on Banking Supervision in June 2006 in the form of the International security, past loss experience, credit scores and defaults based on Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards.
Basel III - in December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Commercial mortgage backed securities CMBS - asset-backed Supervision issued final rules: Basel III: A global regulatory framework securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are loans secured on for more resilient banks and banking systems and Basel III: International commercial real estate.
framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring.
Commercial paper CP - unsecured obligations issued by a corporate or Basis point - one hundredth of a per cent i. e. 0.01 per cent.
100 basis a bank directly or secured obligations asset-backed CP, often issued points is 1 per cent.
Used when quoting movements in interest rates or through a commercial paper conduit, to fund working capital.
typically range from two to 270 days.
However, the depth and reliability of some CP markets means that issuers can repeatedly roll over CP issuance and effectively achieve longer term funding.
CP is issued in a wide range of denominations and can be either discounted or interestbearing.
528 GRA12 7 Additional Info 516 539 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:53 Page 529 RBS GROUP 2012 Commercial paper conduit - a special purpose entity that issues Credit default swap CDS - a contract where the protection seller commercial paper and uses the proceeds to purchase or fund a pool of receives premium or interest-related payments in return for contracting to assets.
The commercial paper is secured on the assets and is redeemed make payments to the protection buyer upon a defined credit event in either by further commercial paper issuance, repayment of assets or relation to a reference financial asset or portfolio of financial assets.
Credit events usually include bankruptcy, payment default and rating downgrades.
Commercial real estate - freehold and leasehold properties used for business activities.
Commercial real estate includes office buildings, Credit derivative product company CDPC - a special purpose entity that industrial property, medical centres, hotels, retail stores, shopping sells credit protection under credit default swaps or certain approved centres, agricultural land and buildings, warehouses, garages etc.
Sometimes they can also buy credit protection.
CDPCs are similar to monoline insurers.
However, unlike Compression trades - portfolio compression reduces the overall notional monoline insurers, they are not regulated as insurers.
size and number of outstanding contracts in credit derivative portfolios without changing the overall risk profiles of these portfolios.
This is Credit derivatives - contractual agreements that provide protection achieved by terminating existing trades on single name reference entities against a credit event on one or more reference entities or financial and on indices and replacing them with a smaller number of new trades assets.
The nature of a credit event is established by the protection buyer with substantially smaller notionals that carry the same risk profile and and protection seller at the inception of a transaction, and such events cash flows as the initial portfolio.
include bankruptcy, insolvency or failure to meet payment obligations when due.
The buyer of the credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return Contractual maturity - the date in the terms of a financial instrument on for a payment by the protection seller upon the occurrence, if any, of a which the last payment or receipt under the contract is due for settlement.
Credit derivatives include credit default swaps, total return swaps and credit swap options.
Core Tier 1 capital - called-up share capital and eligible reserves plus equity non-controlling interests, less intangible assets and other Credit enhancements - techniques that improve the credit standing of regulatory deductions.
financial obligations: generally those issued by an SPE in a securitisation.
External credit enhancements include financial guarantees and letters of Core Tier 1 capital ratio - core Tier 1 capital as a percentage of riskcredit from third-party providers.
Internal enhancements include excess weighted assets.
spread - the difference between the interest rate received on the underlying portfolio and the coupon on the issued securities: and overCost:income ratio - operating expenses as a percentage of total income.
collateralisation - on securitisation, the value of the underlying portfolio is greater than the securities issued.
Counterparty credit risk - the risk that a counterparty defaults before the maturity of a derivative or sale and repurchase contract.
In contrast to Credit grade - a rating that represents an assessment of the credit non-counterparty credit risk, the exposure to counterparty credit risk worthiness of a customer.
It is a point on a scale representing the varies by reference to a market factor e. g. interest rate, exchange rate, probability of default of a customer.
Credit risk - the risk that the Group will incur losses owing to the failure of Coverage ratio - impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired customers to meet their financial obligations to the Group.
Credit risk mitigation - reducing the credit risk of an exposure by Covered bonds - debt securities backed by a portfolio of mortgages that application of techniques such as netting, collateral, guarantees and are segregated from the issuer's other assets solely for the benefit of the credit derivatives.
holders of the covered bonds.
Credit risk spread - the yield spread between securities with the same CRD III - the CRD III package came into force on 1 January 2011.
It currency and maturity structure but with different associated credit risks, requires higher capital requirements for re-securitisations: upgrades with the yield spread rising as the credit rating worsens.
It is the premium disclosure standards for securitisation exposures: strengthens capital over the benchmark or risk-free rate required by the market to take on a requirements for the trading book: and introduces new remuneration lower credit quality.
Credit valuation adjustments CVA - the CVA is the difference between CRD IV - in July 2011, the European Commission published its proposed the riskfree value of a portfolio of trades and its market value, taking into legislation for a Capital Requirements Directive and a Capital account the counterpartys risk of default.
It represents the market value Requirements Regulation, which together form the CRD IV package.
The of counterparty credit risk, or an estimate of the adjustment to fair value package implements the Basel III capital proposals and also includes that a market participant would make to reflect the creditworthiness of its new proposals on sanctions for non-compliance with prudential rules, counterparty.
CRD IV has yet to be enacted into European law and its implementation date remains uncertain.
529 GRA12 7 Additional Info 516 539 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:53 Page 530 Glossary of terms continued Currency swap - an arrangement in which two parties exchange specific Deposits by banks - money deposited with the Group by banks and principal amounts of different currencies at inception and subsequently recorded as liabilities.
They include money-market deposits, securities interest payments on the principal amounts.
Often, one party will pay a sold under repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and other fixed rate of interest, while the other will pay a floating rate though there short term deposits.
Deposits received from customers are recorded as are also fixed-fixed and floating-floating arrangements.
At the maturity of customer accounts.
the swap, the principal amounts are usually re-exchanged.
Derivative - a contract or agreement whose value changes with changes Customer accounts - money deposited with the Group by counterparties in an underlying index such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, other than banks and classified as liabilities.
They include demand, share prices or indices and which requires no initial investment or an savings and time deposits: securities sold under repurchase agreements: initial investment that is smaller than would be required for other types of and other short term deposits.
Deposits received from banks are contracts with a similar response to market factors.
The principal types of classified as deposits by banks.
derivatives are: swaps, forwards, futures and options.
Debt securities - transferable instruments creating or acknowledging Discontinued operation - a component of the Group that either has been indebtedness.
They include debentures, bonds, certificates of deposit, disposed of or is classified as held for sale.
A discontinued operation is notes and commercial paper.
The holder of a debt security is typically either: a separate major line of business or geographical area of entitled to the payment of principal and interest, together with other operations or part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate contractual rights under the terms of the issue, such as the right to major line of business or geographical area of operations: or a subsidiary receive certain information.
Debt securities are generally issued for a acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
fixed term and redeemable by the issuer at the end of that term.
Debt securities can be secured or unsecured.
Economic capital - an internal measure of the capital required by the Group to support the risks to which it is exposed.
Debt securities in issue - unsubordinated debt securities issued by the Group.
They include commercial paper, certificates of deposit, bonds and Economic profit - the difference between the return on shareholders medium-term notes.
funds and the cost of that capital.
Economic profit is usually expressed as a percentage.
Debit valuation adjustment DVA - an adjustment made by an entity to the valuation of OTC derivative liabilities to reflect within fair value the Effective interest rate method - the effective interest method is a method entity's own credit risk.
of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability or group of financial assets or liabilities and of allocating the interest Deferred tax asset - income taxes recoverable in future periods as a income or interest expense over the expected life of the asset or liability.
result of deductible temporary differences temporary differences The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated between the accounting and tax base of an asset or liability that will result future cash flows to the instrument's initial carrying amount.
Calculation of in tax deductible amounts in future periods and the carry-forward of tax the effective interest rate takes into account fees payable or receivable losses and unused tax credits.
that are an integral part of the instrument's yield, premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs.
All Deferred tax liability - income taxes payable in future periods as a result contractual terms of a financial instrument are considered when of taxable temporary differences temporary differences between the estimating future cash flows.
accounting and tax base of an asset or liability that will result in taxable amounts in future periods.
Equity risk - the risk of changes in the market price of the equities or equity instruments arising from positions, either long or short, in equities Defined benefit obligation - the present value of expected future or equity-based financial instruments.
payments required to settle the obligations of a defined benefit plan resulting from employee service.
Expected loss EL - expected loss represents the anticipated loss on an exposure over one year.
It is determined by multiplying probability of Defined benefit plan - pension or other post-retirement benefit plan other default, loss given default and exposure at default and can be calculated than a defined contribution plan.
at individual, credit facility, customer or portfolio level.
Defined contribution plan - pension or other post-retirement benefit plan Exposure - a claim, contingent claim or position which carries a risk of where the employer's obligation is limited to its contributions to the fund.
530 GRA12 7 Additional Info 516 539 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:53 Page 531 RBS GROUP 2012 Exposure at default EAD - an estimate of the expected level of Futures contract - a contract which provides for the future delivery or utilisation of a credit facility at the time of a borrower's default.
The EAD acceptance of delivery of some type of financial instrument or commodity may be higher than the current utilisation e. g. where further drawings are under terms established at the outset.
Futures differ from forward made under a revolving credit facility before default but will not typically contracts in that they are traded on recognised exchanges and rarely exceed the total facility limit.
result in actual delivery: most contracts are closed out prior to maturity by acquisition of an offsetting position.
Fannie Mae Federal National Mortgage Association - a US Government Sponsored Enterprise.
It buys mortgages, principally originated by banks, G10 - the Group of Ten comprises the eleven industrial countries on the secondary market, pools them, and sells them as residential Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, mortgage-backed securities to investors on the open market.
Its Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States that obligations are not explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the have agreed to participate in the International Monetary Funds IMFs US Government.
Federal Agencies - US federal agencies are independent bodies Ginnie Mae Government National Mortgage Association - a US established by the US Government for specific purposes such as the Government Agency that guarantees investors the timely payment of management of natural resources, financial oversight or national security.
principal and interest on mortgage-backed securities for which the A number of agencies, including Ginnie Mae, issue or guarantee publicly underlying asset portfolios comprise federally insured or guaranteed traded debt securities.
loans - mainly loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Ginnie Mae Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation - see Freddie Mac.
obligations are fully and explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the full faith and credit of the US Government.
Federal National Mortgage Association - see Fannie Mae.
Government Sponsored Enterprises GSEs - a group of financial FICO score - a credit score calculated using proprietary software services corporations created by the US Congress.
Their function is to developed by the Fair Isaac Corporation in the US from a consumer's improve the efficiency of capital markets and to overcome statutory and credit profile.
The scores range between 300 and 850 and are used in other market imperfections which otherwise prevent funds from moving credit decisions made by banks and other providers of credit.
easily from suppliers of funds to areas of high loan demand.
They include Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS - the UK's statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms.
It Gross yield - the interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets pays compensation if a firm is unable to meet its obligations.
The FSCS i. e. interest income divided by average interest-earning assets.
funds compensation for customers by raising management expenses levies and compensation levies on the financial services industry.
Haircut - a downward adjustment to collateral value to reflect its nature, any currency or maturity mismatches between a credit risk mitigant and First second lien - a lien is a charge such as a mortgage held by one the underlying exposure to which it is being applied.
party, over property owned by a second party, as security for payment of some debt, obligation, or duty owed by that second party.
The holder of a Hedge funds - pooled investment vehicles that are not widely available to first lien takes precedence over all other encumbrances on that property the public: their assets are managed by professional asset managers i. e. second and subsequent liens.
who participate in the performance of the fund.
Forbearance - forbearance takes place when changes to the contractual Home equity loan - a type of loan in which the borrower uses the equity in payment terms of a retail loan are agreed in response to the borrower's their home as collateral.
A home equity loan creates a charge against the financial difficulties.
Forward contract - a contract to buy or sell a specified amount of a Home loan - see Residential mortgage.
physical or financial commodity, at an agreed price, at an agreed future date.
Impaired loans - all loans for which an impairment provision has been established: for collectively assessed loans, impairment loss provisions Freddie Mac Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation - a US are not allocated to individual loans and the entire portfolio is included in Government Sponsored Enterprise.
It buys mortgages, principally impaired loans.
originated by thrifts, on the secondary market, pools them, and sells them as residential mortgage-backed securities to investors on the open Impairment allowance - see Loan impairment provisions.
Its obligations are not explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the US Government.
Funding and liquidity risk - the risk that the Group does not have sufficient financial resources to meet its commitments when they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
531 GRA12 7 Additional Info 516 539 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:53 Page 532 Glossary of terms continued Impairment losses - a for impaired financial assets measured at Latent loss provisions - loan impairment provisions held against amortised cost, impairment losses - the difference between carrying impairments in the performing loan portfolio that have been incurred as a value and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at result of events occurring before the balance sheet date but which have the asset's original effective interest rate - are recognised in profit or loss not been identified as impaired at the balance sheet date.
and the carrying amount of the financial asset reduced by establishing a provision allowance b for impaired available-for-sale financial assets, Level 1: quoted price - level 1 financial instruments are valued using the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is unadjusted quoted prices in active markets, for identical financial removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss as an impairment instruments.
Examples include G10 government securities, listed equity loss.
shares, certain exchange-traded derivatives and certain US agency securities.
Individually assessed loan impairment provisions - impairment loss provisions for individually significant impaired loans assessed on a caseLevel 2: valuation technique using observable inputs - level 2 financial by-case basis, taking into account the financial condition of the instruments are valued using techniques based significantly on counterparty and any guarantor and the realisable value of any collateral observable market data.
Instruments in this category are valued using: held.
a quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active: or b valuation Insurance risk - the risk of financial loss through fluctuations in the timing, techniques where all the inputs that have a significant effect on the frequency and or severity of insured events, relative to the expectations valuations are directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
at the time of underwriting.
Level 3: valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs - level 3 Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP - the Groups financial instruments are valued using a valuation technique where at own assessment, as part of Basel II requirements, of its risks, how it least one input which could have a significant effect on the instruments intends to mitigate those risks and how much current and future capital is valuation, is not based on observable market data.
Where inputs can be necessary having considered other mitigating factors.
observed from market data without undue cost and effort, the observed input is used.
Otherwise, the Group determines a reasonable level for the International Accounting Standards Board IASB - the independent input.
Level 3 financial instruments include cash instruments which trade standard-setting body of the IFRS Foundation.
Its members are infrequently, certain syndicated and commercial mortgage loans, unlisted responsible for the development and publication of International Financial equity shares, certain residual interests in securitisations, super senior Reporting Standards IFRSs and for approving Interpretations of IFRS tranches of high grade and mezzanine CDOs, other mortgage-based as developed by the IFRS Interpretations Committee.
products and less liquid debt securities, certain structured debt securities in issue, and OTC derivatives where valuation depends upon Interest rate swap - a contract under which two counterparties agree to unobservable inputs such as certain credit and exotic derivatives.
exchange periodic interest payments on a predetermined monetary principal, the notional amount.
Leveraged finance - funding leveraged finance provided to a business resulting in an overall level of debt in relation to cash flow that exceeds Interest spread - the difference between the gross yield and the interest that which would be considered usual for the business or for the industry rate paid on average interest-bearing liabilities.
Leveraged finance is commonly employed to achieve a specific, often temporary, objective: to make an acquisition, to Internal funding of trading business - the internal funding of the trading effect a buy-out or to repurchase shares.
book comprises net banking book financial liabilities that fund financial assets in the Groups trading portfolios.
Interest payable on these Loan impairment provisions - loan impairment provisions are established financial liabilities is charged to the trading book.
to recognise incurred impairment losses on a portfolio of loans classified as loans and receivables and carried at amortised cost.
It has three Investment grade - generally represents a risk profile similar to a rating of components: individually assessed loan impairment provisions, BBBBaa3 or better, as defined by independent rating agencies.
collectively assessed loan impairment provisions and latent loss provisions.
Key management - directors of RBSG and members of the Group Management Committee.
532 GRA12 7 Additional Info 516 539 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:53 Page 533 RBS GROUP 2012 Loan-to-deposit ratio - the ratio of loans and advances to customers net Non-conforming mortgages - mortgage loans that do not meet the of provision for impairment losses and excluding reverse repurchase requirements for sale to US Government agencies or US Government agreements to customer deposits excluding repurchase agreements.
These requirements include limits on loan-tovalue ratios, loan terms, loan amounts, borrower creditworthiness and Loan-to-value ratio - the amount of a secured loan as a percentage of the other requirements.
appraised value of the security e. g. the outstanding amount of a mortgage loan as a percentage of the property's value.
Non-performing loans - loans classified as Risk elements in lending and Potential problem loans.
They have a 100% probability of default and Loss given default LGD - an estimate of the amount that will not be have been assigned an AQ10 internal credit grade.
recovered by the Group in the event of default, plus the cost of debt collection activities and the delay in cash recovery.
Operational risk - the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people, systems or from external events.
Market risk - the risk that the value of an asset or liability will change as a result of market factors such as foreign exchange rates, commodity Option - an option is a contract that gives the holder the right but not the prices, interest rates, credit spreads and equity prices.
obligation to buy or sell a specified amount of the underlying physical or financial commodity, at a specific price, at an agreed date or over an Master netting agreement - an agreement between two counterparties agreed period.
Options can be exchange-traded or traded over-thethat have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for counter.
the net settlement of all contracts through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of default on, or termination of, any one contract.
Over-the-counter OTC derivatives - derivatives with tailored terms and conditions negotiated bilaterally, in contrast to exchange traded Medium term notes MTNs - debt securities usually with a maturity of five derivatives that have standardised terms and conditions.
to ten years, but the term may be less than one year or as long as 50 years.
They can be issued on a fixed or floating coupon basis or with an Own credit adjustment - the effect of the Groups own credit standing on exotic coupon: with a fixed maturity date non-callable or with embedded the fair value of financial liabilities.
call or put options or early repayment triggers.
MTNs are generally issued as senior unsecured debt.
Past due - a financial asset such as a loan is past due when the counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due.
Monoline insurers monolines - entities that specialise in providing credit protection against the notional and interest cash flows due to the holders Payment concession - an agreed temporary reduction in, or elimination of debt instruments in the event of default.
This protection is typically in of, the periodic usually monthly repayment on a loan.
At the end of the the form of derivatives such as credit default swaps.
concessionary period, the principal amount and accrued interest outstanding are scheduled for repayment over an agreed period.
Mortgage-backed securities - asset-backed securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are loans secured on property.
See Pillar 1 - the part of Basel II that sets out the process by which regulatory Residential mortgage backed securities and Commercial mortgage capital requirements should be calculated for credit, market and backed securities.
Mortgage servicing rights - the rights of a mortgage servicer to collect Pillar 2 - the part of the Basel II that sets out the process by which a bank mortgage payments and forward them, after deducting a fee, to the should review its overall capital adequacy and the processes under which mortgage lender.
the supervisors evaluate how well financial institutions are assessing their risks and take appropriate actions in response to the assessments.
Mortgage vintage - the year in which a mortgage loan was made to the customer.
Pillar 3 - the part of Basel II that sets out the information banks must disclose about their risks, the amount of capital required to absorb them, Negative equity mortgages - mortgages where the value of the property and their approach to risk management.
The aim is to strengthen market mortgaged is less than the outstanding balance on the loan.
Net interest income - the difference between interest receivable on financial assets classified as loans and receivables or available-for-sale and interest payable on financial liabilities carried at amortised cost.
Net interest margin - net interest income as a percentage of average interest-earning assets.
533 GRA12 7 Additional Info 516 539 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:53 Page 534 Glossary of terms continued Position risk requirement - a capital requirement applied to a position Return on equity - profit attributable to ordinary and B shareholders treated under BIPRU 7 Market risk as part of the calculation of the divided by average shareholders equity as a percentage.
Reverse repurchase agreement Reverse repo - see Sale and Potential problem loans PPL - loans for which an impairment event has repurchase agreements.
taken place but no impairment loss is expected.
This category is used for advances which are not past due 90 days or revolving credit facilities Risk appetite - an expression of the maximum level of risk that the Group where identification as 90 days overdue is not feasible.
is prepared to accept to deliver its business objectives.
Prime - prime mortgage loans generally have low default risk and are Risk asset ratio RAR - total regulatory capital as a percentage of riskmade to borrowers with good credit records and a monthly income that is weighted assets.
at least three to four times greater than their monthly housing expense mortgage payments plus taxes and other debt payments.
These Risk elements in lending REIL - impaired loans and accruing loans borrowers provide full documentation and generally have reliable which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or payment histories.
Private equity investments - equity investments in operating companies Risk-weighted assets RWAs - assets adjusted for their associated risks not quoted on a public exchange.
Capital for private equity investment is using weightings established in accordance with the Basel Capital Accord raised from retail or institutional investors and used to fund investment as implemented by the FSA.
Certain assets are not weighted but strategies such as leveraged buyouts, venture capital, growth capital, deducted from capital.
distressed investments and mezzanine capital.
Sale and repurchase agreements - in a sale and repurchase agreement Probability of default PD - the likelihood that a customer will fail to make one party, the seller, sells a financial asset to another party, the buyer, at full and timely repayment of credit obligations over a one year time the same time the seller agrees to reacquire and the buyer to resell the horizon.
From the seller's perspective such agreements are repurchase agreements repos and from the buyer's reverse repurchase Regular way purchase or sale - a purchase or sale of a financial asset agreements reverse repos.
under a contract whose terms require delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or convention in the Securitisation - a process by which assets or cash flows are transformed marketplace concerned.
The underlying assets or cash flows are transferred by the originator or an intermediary, typically an investment Regulatory capital - the amount of capital that the Group holds, bank, to a special purpose entity which issues securities to investors.
determined in accordance with rules established by the FSA for the Asset securitisations involve issuing debt securities asset-backed consolidated Group and by local regulators for individual Group securities that are backed by the cash flows of income-generating assets companies.
ranging from credit card receivables to residential mortgage loans.
Liability securitisations typically involve issuing bonds that assume the Renegotiated loan - a wholesale loan for which changes to its contractual risk of a potential insurance liability ranging from a catastrophic natural payment terms have been agreed in response to the borrower's financial event to an unexpected claims level on a certain product type.
Settlement balances - payables and receivables that result from Repurchase agreement Repo - see Sale and repurchase agreements.
purchases and sales of financial instruments recognised on trade date.
Asset settlement balances are amounts owed to the Group in respect of Residential mortgage - a loan to purchase a residential property where sales and liability settlement balances are amounts owed by the Group in the property forms collateral for the loan.
The borrower gives the lender a respect of purchases.
lien against the property and the lender can foreclose on the property if the borrower does not repay the loan per the agreed terms.
Also known Slotting approach - a method of calculating regulatory capital, specifically as a home loan.
for lending exposures in project finance and income producing real estate, where the PD estimates do not meet the minimum IRB standards.
Residential mortgage backed securities RMBS - asset-backed Under this approach, the bank classifies exposures from 1 to 5, where 1 securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are residential is strong and 5 is default.
Specific risk-weights are assigned to each mortgages.
Retail loans - loans made to individuals rather than institutions.
The loans may be for car purchases, home purchases, medical care, home repair, holidays and other consumer uses.
534 GRA12 7 Additional Info 516 539 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:53 Page 535 RBS GROUP 2012 Sovereign exposures - exposures to governments, ministries, Super senior CDO - the most senior class of instrument issued by a CDO departments of governments and central banks.
They benefit from the subordination of all other instruments, including AAA rated securities, issued by the CDO vehicle.
Special purpose entity SPE - an entity created by a sponsor, typically a major bank, finance company, investment bank or insurance company.
Tier 1 capital - core Tier 1 capital plus other Tier 1 securities in issue, less An SPE can take the form of a corporation, trust, partnership, or a limited material holdings in financial companies.
Its operations are typically limited for example in a securitisation to the acquisition and financing of specific assets or Tier 1 capital ratio - Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk-weighted liabilities.
Standardised approach - a method used to calculate credit risk capital Tier 2 capital - qualifying subordinated debt and other Tier 2 securities in requirements under Pillar 1 of Basel II.
In this approach the risk weights issue, eligible collective impairment allowances, unrealised available-forused in the capital calculation are determined by regulators.
For sale equity gains and revaluation reserves less certain regulatory operational risk, capital requirements are determined by multiplying three deductions.
years historical gross income by a percentage determined by the regulator.
The percentage ranges from 12 to 18%, depending on the type Unaudited - financial information that has not been subjected to the audit of underlying business being considered.
procedures undertaken by the Group's auditors to enable them to express an opinion on the Group's financial statements.
Stressed value-at-risk SVaR - a VaR measure using historical data from a one year period of stressed market conditions.
For the purposes of US Federal Agencies - see Federal Agencies.
calculating regulatory SVaR, a time horizon of ten trading days is assumed at a confidence level of 99%.
Refer to Value-at-risk definition US Government National Mortgage Association - see Ginnie Mae.
Value-at-risk VaR - a technique that produces estimates of the potential Stress testing - a technique used to evaluate the potential effects on an loss in the market value of a portfolio over a specified time period at a institutions financial condition of an exceptional but plausible event given confidence level.
and or movement in a set of financial variables.
Wholesale funding - wholesale funding comprises Deposits by banks, Structured credit portfolio SCP - a portfolio of certain of the Groups Debt securities in issue and Subordinated liabilities.
illiquid assets - principally CDO super senior positions, negative basis trades and monoline exposures - held within Non-Core division.
Wrapped security - a debt security where the holder benefits from credit protection provided by a third party, typically a financial guarantor or Structured Investment Vehicle SIV - a limited-purpose operating monoline insurer.
company that undertakes arbitrage activities by purchasing highly rated medium and long-term, fixed-income assets and funding itself with shortWrite-down - a reduction in the carrying value of an asset to record a term, highly rated commercial paper and medium-term notes.
decline in its fair value or value in use.
Structured notes - securities that pay a return linked to the value or level Wrong-way risk - the risk of loss when the risk factors driving the of a specified asset or index.
Structured notes can be linked to equities, exposure to a counterparty or customer are positively correlated with the interest rates, funds, commodities and foreign currency.
creditworthiness of that counterparty i. e. the size of the exposure increases at the same time as the risk of the counterparty or customer Subordinated liabilities - liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or being unable to meet that obligation, increases.
liquidation of the issuer, are subordinated to the claims of depositors and other creditors of the issuer.
Sub-prime - mortgage loans to customers with one or more high risk characteristics, such as: unreliable or poor payment histories: high loanto-value ratios: high debt-to-income ratio: the loan is not secured on the borrower's primary residence: or a history of delinquencies or late payments on the loan.
