Capital instruments Hedge relationships are formally designated and documented at The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a liability if it inception.
The documentation identifies the hedged item and the hedging is a contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset, or to instrument and details the risk that is being hedged and the way in which exchange financial assets or financial liabilities on potentially effectiveness will be assessed at inception and during the period of the unfavourable terms and as equity if it evidences a residual interest in the hedge.
If the hedge is not highly effective in offsetting changes in fair assets of the Group after the deduction of liabilities.
The components of a values or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the compound financial instrument issued by the Group are classified and documented risk management strategy, hedge accounting is accounted for separately as financial assets, financial liabilities or equity discontinued.
Hedge accounting is also discontinued if the Group revokes as appropriate.
the designation of a hedge relationship.
Incremental costs that are directly attributable to an equity transaction are Fair value hedge - in a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the hedging deducted from equity net of any related tax.
instrument is recognised in profit or loss.
The gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is recognised in profit or loss and, The consideration for any ordinary shares of the company purchased by where the hedged item is measured at amortised cost, adjusts the the Group treasury shares is deducted from equity.
On the cancellation carrying amount of the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued if of treasury shares their nominal value is removed from equity and any the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting: or if the excess of consideration over nominal value is treated in accordance with hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised: or if hedge the capital maintenance provisions of the Companies Act.
On the sale or designation is revoked.
If the hedged item is one for which the effective reissue of treasury shares the consideration received is credited to interest rate method is used, any cumulative adjustment is amortised to equity, net of any directly attributable incremental costs and related tax.
profit or loss over the life of the hedged item using a recalculated effective interest rate.
Derivatives and hedging Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised, and subsequently Cash flow hedge - in a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain measured, at fair value.
Derivative fair values are determined from or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive quoted prices in active markets where available.
Where there is no active income and the ineffective portion in profit or loss.
When the forecast market for an instrument, fair value is derived from prices for the transaction results in the recognition of a financial asset or financial derivative's components using appropriate pricing or valuation models liability, the cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from equity to profit or see Note 11 Financial instruments - valuation.
loss in the same periods in which the hedged forecast cash flows affect profit or loss.
Otherwise the cumulative gain or loss is removed from A derivative embedded in a contract is accounted for as a stand-alone equity and recognised in profit or loss at the same time as the hedged derivative if its economic characteristics are not closely related to the transaction.
Hedge accounting is discontinued if the hedge no longer economic characteristics of the host contract: unless the entire contract is meets the criteria for hedge accounting: if the hedging instrument expires measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or or is sold, terminated or exercised: if the forecast transaction is no longer loss.
expected to occur: or if hedge designation is revoked.
On the discontinuance of hedge accounting except where a forecast transaction Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss is are not the hedging instrument in a qualifying hedge are recognised as reclassified from equity to profit or loss when the hedged cash flows they arise in profit or loss.
Gains and losses are recorded in Income from occur or, if the forecast transaction results in the recognition of a financial trading activities except for gains and losses on those derivatives that are asset or financial liability, when the hedged forecast cash flows affect managed together with financial instruments designated at fair value: profit or loss.
Where a forecast transaction is no longer expected to these gains and losses are included in Other operating income.
occur, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss is reclassified from equity to profit or loss immediately.
The Group enters into three types of hedge relationship: hedges of changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability or firm Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation - in the hedge of a net commitment fair value hedges : hedges of the variability in cash flows investment in a foreign operation, the portion of foreign exchange from a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast differences arising on the hedging instrument determined to be an transaction cash flow hedges : and hedges of the net investment in a effective hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss.
Non-derivative financial liabilities as well as derivatives may be the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge.
On disposal or partial disposal of a foreign operation, the amount accumulated in equity is reclassified from equity to profit or loss.
