GRA12 5a Financial Statement 351 387 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:31 Page 364 Accounting policies continued Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss, and are subsequently of temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or measured at fair value.
Gains and losses on financial assets that are liability for accounting purposes and its carrying amount for tax purposes.
designated as at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in profit Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary or loss as they arise.
differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax is not recognised on Loans and receivables - non-derivative financial assets with fixed or temporary differences that arise from initial recognition of an asset or a determinable repayments that are not quoted in an active market are liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the classified as loans and receivables, except those that are classified as time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or available-for-sale or as held-for-trading, or designated as at fair value loss.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates expected to apply in the through profit or loss.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at periods when the assets will be realised or the liabilities settled, based on fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, at the balance measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method see sheet date.
Accounting policy 3 less any impairment losses.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a Available-for-sale financial assets - financial assets that are not classified legally enforceable right to offset and where they relate to income taxes as held-to-maturity: held-for-trading: designated as at fair value through levied by the same taxation authority either on an individual Group profit or loss: or loans and receivables are classified as available-for-sale.
company or on Group companies in the same tax group that intend, in Financial assets can be designated as available-for-sale on initial future periods, to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or recognition.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at on a gross basis simultaneously.
fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at fair value.
Unquoted equity investments whose fair value 15.
Financial assets cannot be measured reliably are carried at cost and classified as On initial recognition, financial assets are classified into held-to-maturity available-for-sale financial assets.
Impairment losses and exchange investments: held-for-trading: designated as at fair value through profit or differences resulting from retranslating the amortised cost of foreign loss: loans and receivables: or available-for-sale financial assets.
Regular currency monetary available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in way purchases of financial assets classified as loans and receivables are profit or loss together with interest calculated using the effective interest recognised on settlement date: all other regular way transactions in method see Accounting policy 3 as are gains and losses attributable to financial assets are recognised on trade date.
the hedged risk on available-for-sale financial assets that are hedged items in fair value hedges see Accounting policy 24.
Other changes in Held-to-maturity investments - a financial asset may be classified as a the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets and any related tax are held-to-maturity investment only if it has fixed or determinable payments, reported in other comprehensive income until disposal, when the a fixed maturity and the Group has the positive intention and ability to cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from equity to profit or loss.
Held-to-maturity investments are initially recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently Reclassifications - held-for-trading and available-for-sale financial assets measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method see that meet the definition of loans and receivables non-derivative financial Accounting policy 3 less any impairment losses.
assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market may be reclassified to loans and receivables if the Group Held-for-trading - a financial asset is classified as held-for-trading if it is has the intention and ability to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable acquired principally for sale in the near term, or forms part of a portfolio of future or until maturity.
The Group typically regards the foreseeable future financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is as twelve months from the date of reclassification.
Additionally, held-forevidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a derivative not in a qualifying trading financial assets that do not meet the definition of loans and hedge relationship.
Held-for-trading financial assets are recognised at receivables may, in rare circumstances, be transferred to available-forfair value with transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss.
sale financial assets or to held-to-maturity investments.
Reclassifications Subsequently they are measured at fair value.
Gains and losses on heldare made at fair value.
This fair value becomes the asset's new cost or for-trading financial assets are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
Gains and losses recognised up to the date of reclassification are not reversed.
Designated as at fair value through profit or loss - financial assets may be designated as at fair value through profit or loss only if such designation Fair value - fair value for a net open position in a financial asset that is a eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition quoted in an active market is the current bid price times the number of inconsistency: or b applies to a group of financial assets, financial units of the instrument held.
Fair values for financial assets not quoted in liabilities or both, that the Group manages and evaluates on a fair value an active market are determined using appropriate valuation techniques basis: or c relates to an instrument that contains an embedded including discounting future cash flows, option pricing models and other derivative which is not evidently closely related to the host contract.
methods that are consistent with accepted economic methodologies for Financial assets that the Group designates on initial recognition as being pricing financial assets see Note 11 Financial instruments - valuation.
at fair value through profit or loss are recognised at fair value, with 364
