ARSFS SFS 36 64 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:43 Page 37 RBS GROUP 2012 Our Board Chairman Philip Hampton age 59 External appointments Date of appointment: appointed to the Board on 19 x Non-executive director of Anglo American January 2009 and to the position of Chairman on 3 plc February 2009 Board Committee membership Previously chairman of J Sainsbury plc and group x Group Nominations Committee Chair finance director at Lloyds TSB Group, BT Group plc, BG Group plc, British Gas and British Steel plc, an executive director of Lazards and a non-executive director of RMC Group plc and Belgacom SA.
He is also a former chairman of UK Financial Investments Limited, which manages the UK Governments shareholdings in banks.
Executive directors Group Chief Executive Stephen Hester age 52 External appointments Date of appointment: appointed to the Board on 1 x Trustee of The Foundation and Friends of October 2008 and to the position of Group Chief the Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew Executive on 21 November 2008 Board Committee membership Previously chief executive of The British Land Company x Executive Committee PLC, chief operating officer of Abbey National plc and prior to that held positions with Credit Suisse First Boston including chief financial officer, head of fixed income and co-head of European investment banking.
After nationalisation in 2008, he served as non-executive Deputy Chairman of Northern Rock plc.
Group Finance Director Bruce Van Saun age 55 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 October 2009 x Non-executive director of Direct Line Insurance Group plc Extensive leadership experience with 30 years in the x Non-executive director of Lloyds of financial services industry.
From 1997 to 2008 he held a London Franchise Board number of senior positions with Bank of New York and x Non-executive director of Worldpay Ship later Bank of New York Mellon, most recently as viceMidco Limited chairman and chief financial officer and before that was responsible for Asset Management and Market Related Board Committee membership businesses.
Prior to that he held senior positions with x Executive Committee Deutsche Bank, Wasserstein Perella Group and Kidder Peabody & Co.
He has served on several corporate boards as a non-executive director and has been active in numerous community organisations.
37 ARSFS SFS 36 64 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:43 Page 38 Our Board continued Independent non-executive directors Sandy Crombie age 64 External appointments Senior Independent Director x Chairman of Creative Scotland Date of appointment: 1 June 2009 x Member and vice-chairman of the Board of Governors of The Royal Conservatoire of Previously group chief executive of Standard Life plc.
He Scotland was also previously a director of the Association of x President of the Cockburn Association British Insurers, a member of the former Chancellor of the Exchequers High Level Group on Financial Services Board Committee membership and Chairman of the Edinburgh World City of Literature x Group Sustainability Committee Chair Trust.
In 2007 he was the Prince of Wales Ambassador x Board Risk Committee for Corporate Social Responsibility in Scotland.
x Group Nominations Committee x Group Performance and Remuneration Committee Alison Davis age 51 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 August 2011 x Non-executive director of Unisys Corporation Former director of City National Bank, First Data x Non-executive director, chair of Corporation and chair of the board of LECG Corporation.
compensation committee and member of She previously worked at McKinsey & Company, AT audit committee of Diamond Foods Inc. Kearney, as chief financial officer at Barclays Global x Non-executive director, chair of audit Investors now BlackRock and managing partner of committee and member of compliance Belvedere Capital, a private equity firm focused on buycommittee of Xoom Corporation outs in the financial services sector.
x Chair of the Governing Board of Womens Initiative for Self Employment Board Committee membership x Group Nominations Committee x Group Performance and Remuneration Committee x Group Sustainability Committee Tony Di Iorio age 69 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 September 2011 x None Has worked for a variety of financial institutions starting Board Committee membership with Peat Marwick now KPMG and then Goldman x Board Risk Committee Sachs, ultimately as controller of the global firm.
He was x Group Audit Committee chief financial officer of the investment bank of x Group Nominations Committee NationsBank now Bank of America before joining Paine Webber and then Deutsche Bank where he became chief financial officer in 2006.
After retiring in 2008 he served as senior adviser to Ernst & Young working with the firms financial services partners in the UK, Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
38 ARSFS SFS 36 64 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:43 Page 39 RBS GROUP 2012 Independent non-executive directors Penny Hughes, CBE age 53 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 January 2010 x Non-executive director, chair of corporate compliance and responsibility committee Previously a director and chairman of the Remuneration and member of audit, nomination and Committee of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB and a remuneration committees of Wm Morrison non-executive director of Home Retail Group plc and Supermarkets plc chairman of its Remuneration Committee.
She spent the x Trustee of the British Museum majority of her executive career at Coca-Cola where she held a number of leadership positions, latterly as Board Committee membership President, Coca-Cola Great Britain and Ireland.
Former x Group Performance and Remuneration non-executive directorships include Vodafone Group plc, Committee Chair Reuters Group PLC, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc x Group Nominations Committee and The Gap Inc. Joe MacHale age 61 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 September 2004 x Chairman of Prytania Holdings LLP x Chairman of the Brendoncare Foundation Held a number of senior executive positions with J. P. x Non-executive director of Huntsworth plc Morgan between 1979 and 2001 and was latterly chief executive of J P Morgan Europe, Middle East and Africa Board Committee membership Region.
Previously held non-executive roles at The x Board Risk Committee Morgan Crucible Company plc and Brit Insurance x Group Nominations Committee Holdings plc and former Trustee of MacMillan Cancer Support.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Brendan Nelson age 63 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 April 2010 x Non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of BP plc Former global chairman, financial services for KPMG.
x Board member of Financial Skills Previously held senior leadership roles within KPMG Partnership including as a member of the KPMG UK board from x Member of the Financial Reporting Review 1999 to 2006 and as vice chairman from 2006.
Chairman Panel of the Audit Committee of the Institute of Chartered x Deputy President of the Institute of Accountants of Scotland from 2005 to 2008.
Chartered Accountants of Scotland Board Committee membership x Group Audit Committee Chair x Board Risk Committee x Group Nominations Committee Baroness Noakes, DBE age 63 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 August 2011 x Non-executive director and chairman of audit committee of Severn Trent plc An experienced director on UK listed company boards x Deputy chairman and senior independent with extensive and varied political and public sector director and chairman of the nominations experience.
A qualified chartered accountant, she committee of Carpetright plc previously headed KPMGs European and International x Trustee of the Thomson Reuters Founders Government practices and has been President of the Share Company Ltd Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
She was appointed to the House of Lords in Board Committee membership 2000 and has served on the Conservative front bench x Board Risk Committee in various roles including as shadow treasury minister x Group Audit Committee between 2003 and May 2010.
Previously held nonx Group Nominations Committee executive roles on the Court of the Bank of England, Hanson, ICI, John Laing and SThree.
39 ARSFS SFS 36 64 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:43 Page 40 Our Board continued Independent non-executive directors Arthur Art Ryan age 70 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 October 2008 x Non-executive director of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. Former chairman, chief executive officer and president of x Active member of numerous community Prudential Financial Inc.
Previously he held senior boards positions with Chase Manhattan Bank N. A. and was a founding member of the Financial Services Forum.
He is Board Committee membership a non-executive director of RBS Citizens Financial x Group Nominations Committee Group, Inc. x Group Performance and Remuneration Committee Philip Scott age 59 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 November 2009 x Non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of Diageo plc Wide-ranging experience of financial services and risk management, including previous responsibility for Board Committee membership Avivas continental European and International life and x Board Risk Committee Chair long-term savings businesses.
He held a number of x Group Audit Committee senior executive positions during his career at Aviva x Group Nominations Committee including his role as group finance director until January 2010.
President of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries and Fellow of the Association of Certified Public Accountants.
Group Secretary Aileen Taylor age 40 Date of appointment: 1 May 2010 A qualified solicitor, joined RBS in 2000.
She was She is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of appointed Deputy Group Secretary and Head of Group Bankers in Scotland and a member of the Secretariat in 2007, and prior to that held various legal, European Corporate Governance Council.
secretariat and risk roles including Head of External Risk, Retail, Head of Regulatory Risk, Retail Direct and Head of Legal and Compliance at Direct Line Financial Services.
