ARSFS12 ESS READING & BUS STRAT AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:03 Page 6 ESSENTIAL READING Our approach to business The job of creating the new RBS, a good company and a good bank, has three parts.
We need to put customers first and serve them well.
We have to make RBS safe and sound by restoring a sustainable and conservative risk profile.
We have to rebuild sustainable value for all shareholders.
These goals are linked and each one supports the others.
After four years of our Strategic Plan, we have made progress in all three areas but there is more to do.
In particular, we are intensifying our efforts to become a bank that is known for the quality of service we give our customers.
Serving customers well In 2012: Building sustainable value requires us first and Serving customers well is what a really good we increased our Core Tier 1 capital ratio foremost to demonstrate that we can operate bank does.
In the past the banking industry, to 10.3% and were able to exit the Asset safely and soundly and that we are serving our including RBS, has simply not been good Protection Scheme APS : customers well.
These are the cornerstones of enough at it.
Putting that right needs hard our strategy.
Each of our businesses must add we have reached our target of sustainable work, determination and focus.
It will not value in its own right.
They also provide a funding, with a loan to deposit ratio of 100%: happen overnight.
But at RBS, we are stronger, more stable and valuable whole and resolutely committed to making sure we because of the linkages between them.
we now have an excess of liquidity which put customers first.
Among the strategic actions we have we are keen to lend to our customers, if loan already taken to get to this position are: demand picks up.
Examples of the steps we took in 2012 to reshaping our business portfolio to put customers first included: concentrate on a select group of marketThe focus is now on absorbing the upcoming strengthening our customer culture through leading customer franchises: regulatory changes to emerge from our fivecustomer charters and commitments across dramatically restructuring our investment year turnaround at the end of next year with our businesses: banking business to adapt our business mix a Core Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 10%.
introducing a training and accreditation to the changing regulatory landscape: programme for all of our front-line SME focusing relentlessly on cost control Rebuilding sustainable value bankers to ensure they are better across all our businesses: and for all shareholders equipped to serve our customers: and Rebuilding a sustainably valuable business investing in our Core UK Retail and making sure we regularly and actively is important not just from the conventional Commercial businesses to bring their monitor customer satisfaction levels, perspective of delivering shareholder value capabilities towards the levels our customer complaints and customer but in our case to enable the UK Government customers expect.
to recover the taxpayers investment.
We outline how each of our divisions are While we are encouraged by our progress, We took a first step by repaying the liquidity performing together to deliver our Strategic we are not complacent.
We understand the and credit support that we needed from the Plan on pages 16 to 17. need to keep improving, particularly in light of government at the start of the financial crisis.
the challenging and competitive environment in Our exit from the APS in 2012, after paying How we do business which we operate.
And we will not waver in our the Government 2.5 billion, was another We need to complete these three jobs if RBS commitment to embed serving customers well major milestone.
The next step is to make RBS is to be a really good bank.
Alongside this, into our DNA.
attractive enough to allow the UK Government we have to be clear about how we want do to consider selling some of its shares in business.
That is why we aspire to standards Restoring RBS to a sustainable and the bank.
of behaviour in six areas around our conservative risk profile customers, finances, people, reputation, risk We must operate safely and soundly if we are and security.
to serve all those who rely on us.
This aim has underpinned our recovery plan.
Our progress can be measured by our capital, how we fund ourselves and the reserves we hold in case of emergencies.
06 RBS GROUP 2012 Customers We understand our customers We know who we are dealing with We treat our customers fairly We treat all customer information as confidential Finances People We manage our finances carefully We value our people We use the Groups capital and We recruit, develop and resources efficiently reward people based on their ability to do the job We account for and report our transactions properly We manage our people responsibly and fairly Reputation Risk We conduct ourselves in a way We understand and manage that protects our reputation the risks we are taking We work within all relevant We identify and manage the laws and regulations level of risk we are prepared to take We are a responsible and engaged member of the community We conduct our business in a sustainable manner We deliver essential customer services and critical business processes at all times Security We operate in a secure environment We protect access to our premises, systems and data We operate our processes, systems and controls to minimise loss from fraud or error 077
