GRA12 6 Additional Info 487 515 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:48 Page 500 Additional information continued Supervision Reserve policy, the Group is required to act as a source of financial United Kingdom strength for its US bank subsidiaries.
Among other things, this source of The UK Financial Services Authority FSA is currently the consolidated strength obligation could require the Group to inject capital into any of its supervisor of the Group.
As at 31 December 2012, 22 companies in the US bank subsidiaries if any of them became undercapitalised.
Group, spanning a range of financial services sectors banking, insurance and investment business, were authorised to conduct financial activities Anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism and economic sanctions regulated by the FSA.
regulations are a major focus of the US government for financial institutions and are rigorously enforced by US government agencies.
From 1 April 2013, the FSAs responsibilities will be split between two bodies: the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the Financial The Group's US bank and non-bank subsidiaries and the Royal Bank's Conduct Authority FCA.
At that point, the PRA will become the US branches are also subject to supervision and regulation by a variety consolidated supervisor of the Group.
The FSA have already anticipated of other US regulatory agencies.
RBS Citizens N. A. is supervised by the the new structure by creating Prudential and Conduct business units in Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which is charged with the April 2012 and separating the supervision teams for each dual regulated regulation and supervision of nationally chartered banks.
RBS firm between those units from that time.
Citizens N. A. owns CCO Investments Services Corp. a US broker dealer subject to regulation and supervision by the US Securities and Exchange The UK authorised banks in the Group include The Royal Bank of Commission SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Scotland plc, National Westminster Bank Plc, Coutts & Co and Ulster FINRA with respect to its securities activities.
Citizens Bank of Bank Limited.
Wholesale activities, other than Group Treasury activities, Pennsylvania is subject to the regulation and supervision of the US are concentrated in the Group's Markets, International Banking and UK Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Pennsylvania Department Corporate Banking divisions, and are undertaken under the names of The of Banking.
Both banks are subject to supervision and regulation by the Royal Bank of Scotland plc and National Westminster Bank Plc.
UK retail Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CFPB.
The Dodd-Frank Wall banking activities are managed by the UK Retail division and by Ulster Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 established the Bank Limited in Northern Ireland.
The banking service in the Republic of CFPB.
Ireland is provided by Ulster Bank Ireland Limited, which is supervised by the Central Bank of Ireland.
RBS Citizens Financial Group, Inc. is under the supervision of the Federal Reserve as a bank holding company.
The Royal Bank's New Investment management business is principally undertaken by York branch is supervised by the New York State Department of companies in the Wealth division, including Coutts & Co, Adam & Financial Services and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and its Company Investment Management Limited, and in the Markets and Connecticut branch is supervised by the Connecticut Department of International Banking divisions, through RBS Asset Management Limited Banking.
Both branches are also subject to supervisory oversight by the and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston.
General insurance business is principally undertaken by U K Insurance The Group's primary US broker dealer, RBS Securities Inc. RBSSI, Limited.
formerly known as Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. is also subject to regulation and supervision by the SEC and FINRA with respect to its The Group is subject to extensive regulations that impose obligations on securities activities.
The futures activities of RBSSI are subject to financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and regulation and oversight by the US Commodity Futures Trading controls to ensure compliance with the rules and regulations to which Commission and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange Group-owned they are subject.
United States Netherlands RBSG is both a bank holding company and a financial holding company The consolidated supervisor of RBS N. V. is the fide Nederlandsche Bank within the meaning of the US Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.
The DNB operates as independent central bank and prudential such, it is subject to the regulation and supervision of the Board of supervisor of banks, insurance companies, pension funds and securities Governors of the Federal Reserve System the Federal Reserve.
firms domiciled in the Netherlands, and also as part of the European Among other things, the Group's direct and indirect activities and System of Central Banks.
investments in the United States are limited to those that are 'financial in nature' or 'incidental' or 'complementary' to a financial activity, as Other jurisdictions determined by the Federal Reserve.
The Group is also required to obtain The Group operates in over 45 countries through a network of branches, the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before acquiring directly or local banks and non-bank subsidiaries and these activities are subject to indirectly, the ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of the supervision in most cases by a local regulator or central bank.
voting shares of any US bank or holding company.
