GRA12 5a Financial Statement 351 387 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:31 Page 368 Accounting policies continued 25.
Share-based compensation Critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation The Group operates a number of share-based compensation schemes uncertainty under which it awards RBSG shares and share options to its employees.
The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting policies, Such awards are generally subject to vesting conditions: conditions that assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its financial vary the amount of cash or shares to which an employee is entitled.
UK company law and IFRS require the directors, in preparing Vesting conditions include service conditions requiring the employee to the Group's financial statements, to select suitable accounting policies, complete a specified period of service and performance conditions apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates that are requiring the employee to complete a specified period of service and reasonable and prudent.
In the absence of an applicable standard or specified performance targets to be met.
Other conditions to which an interpretation, IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting award is subject are non-vesting conditions such as a requirement to Estimates and Errors, requires management to develop and apply an save throughout the vesting period.
accounting policy that results in relevant and reliable information in the light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS dealing with similar and The cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of related issues and the IASB's Conceptual Framework for Financial shares or share options granted is measured by reference to the fair Reporting.
The judgements and assumptions involved in the Group's value of the shares or share options on the date the award is granted and accounting policies that are considered by the Board to be the most takes into account non-vesting conditions and market performance important to the portrayal of its financial condition are discussed below.
conditions conditions related to the market price of RBSG shares : an The use of estimates, assumptions or models that differ from those award is treated as vesting irrespective of whether any market adopted by the Group would affect its reported results.
performance condition or non-vesting condition is met.
The fair value of options granted is estimated using valuation techniques which Pensions incorporate exercise price, term, risk-free interest rates, the current share The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes as price and its expected volatility.
The cost is expensed on a straight-line described in Note 4 on the accounts.
The assets of the schemes are basis over the vesting period the period during which all the specified measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
Scheme liabilities vesting conditions must be satisfied with a corresponding increase in are measured using the projected unit credit method, which takes equity in an equity-settled award, or a corresponding liability in a cashaccount of projected earnings increases, using actuarial assumptions that settled award.
The cost is adjusted for vesting conditions other than give the best estimate of the future cash flows that will arise under the market performance conditions so as to reflect the number of shares or scheme liabilities.
These cash flows are discounted at the interest rate share options that actually vest.
applicable to high-quality corporate bonds of the same currency and term as the liabilities.
Any recognisable surplus or deficit of scheme assets If an award is modified, the original cost continues to be recognised as if over liabilities is recorded in the balance sheet as an asset surplus or there had been no modification.
Where modification increases the fair liability deficit.
value of the award, this increase is recognised as an expense over the modified vesting period.
A new award of shares or share options is In determining the value of scheme liabilities, financial and demographic treated as the modification of a cancelled award if, on the date the new assumptions are made including price inflation, pension increases, award is granted, the Group identifies them as replacing the cancelled earnings growth and the longevity of scheme members.
The cancellation of an award through failure to meet non-vesting assumptions could be adopted in valuing the schemes' liabilities.
Different conditions triggers an immediate expense for any unrecognised element assumptions could significantly alter the amount of the surplus or deficit of the cost of an award.
recognised in the balance sheet and the pension cost charged to the income statement.
The assumptions adopted for the Group's pension 26.
Cash and cash equivalents schemes are set out in Note 4 on the accounts, together with sensitivities In the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprises cash of the balance sheet and income statement to changes in those and demand deposits with banks together with short-term highly liquid assumptions.
investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of change in value.
A pension asset of 144 million and a liability of 3,884 million were recognised on the balance sheet at 31 December 2012 2011 - asset 188 million, liability 2,239 million: 2010 - asset 105 million, liability 2,288 million.
368 GRA12 5a Financial Statement 351 387 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:31 Page 369 RBS GROUP 2012 Goodwill actuarial best estimates.
In order to calculate the total provision required, The Group capitalises goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses, the historical development of claims is analysed using statistical as discussed in Accounting policy 6.
The carrying value of goodwill as at methodology to extrapolate, within acceptable probability parameters, the 31 December 2012 was 11,266 million 2011 - 12,424 million: 2010 - value of outstanding claims at the balance sheet date.
the estimation of outstanding claims are other assumptions such as the inflationary factor used for bodily injury claims which is based on Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair historical trends and, therefore, allows for some increase due to changes value of its net assets.
The determination of the fair value of assets and in common law and statute: and the incidence of periodical payment liabilities of businesses acquired requires the exercise of management orders and the rate at which payments under them are discounted.
Costs judgement: for example those financial assets and liabilities for which for both direct and indirect claims handling expenses are also included.
there are no quoted prices, and those non-financial assets where Outward reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same valuations reflect estimates of market conditions, such as property.
accounting period as the direct claims to which they relate.
The Different fair values would result in changes to the goodwill arising and to outstanding claims provision is based on information available to the post-acquisition performance of the acquisition.
Goodwill is not management and the eventual outcome may vary from the original amortised but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if assessment.
Actual claims experience may differ from the historical events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
pattern on which the estimate is based and the cost of settling individual claims may exceed that assumed.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units or Provisions for liabilities groups of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the As set out in Note 22, at 31 December 2012 the Group recognised combination.
Goodwill impairment testing involves the comparison of the provisions for liabilities in respect of Payment Protection Insurance, 895 carrying value of a cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units million 2011 - 745 million: 2010 - nil, Interest Rate Hedging Products, with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the 676 million 2011 and 2010 - nil, LIBOR investigations, 381 million units fair value and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of 2011 and 2010 - nil and other regulatory proceedings and litigation, expected future cash flows from the cash generating unit or group of 368 million 2011 - 241 million: 2010 - 192 million.
Fair value is the amount obtainable for the sale of liabilities of uncertain timing or amount, and are recognised when there is the cash-generating unit in an arms length transaction between a present obligation as a result of a past event, the outflow of economic knowledgeable, willing parties.
benefit is probable and the outflow can be estimated reliably.
Judgement is involved in determining whether an obligation exists, and in estimating Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgmental areas: the the probability, timing and amount of any outflows.
Where the Group can preparation of cash flow forecasts for periods that are beyond the normal look to another party such as an insurer to pay some or all of the requirements of management reporting: the assessment of the discount expenditure required to settle a provision, any reimbursement is rate appropriate to the business: estimation of the fair value of cashrecognised when, and only when, it is virtually certain that it will be generating units: and the valuation of the separable assets of each received.
business whose goodwill is being reviewed.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions is discussed in Note 17 on pages 423 and 424.
Payment Protection Insurance - the Group has established a provision for redress payable in respect of the mis-selling of Payment Protection General insurance claims Insurance policies.
The provision is managements best estimate of the The Group makes provision for the full cost of settling outstanding claims anticipated costs of redress and related administration expenses.
The arising from its general insurance business at the balance sheet date, determination of appropriate assumptions to underpin the provision including claims estimated to have been incurred but not yet reported at requires significant judgement by management.
The principal that date and claims handling expenses.
General insurance claims assumptions underlying the provision together with sensitivities to provisions amounted to 6,090 million at 31 December 2012 2011 - changes in those assumptions are given in Note 22.
Interest Rate Hedging Products - the Group has agreed to a redress Provisions are determined by management based on experience of exercise and past business reviews in relation to the sale of Interest Rate claims settled and on statistical models which require certain Hedging Products to some small and medium sized businesses classified assumptions to be made regarding the incidence, timing and amount of as retail clients.
The ultimate cost of this exercise to the Group is claims and any specific factors such as adverse weather conditions.
Estimating the liability depends on a number of assumptions.
Management use the work of internal and external actuaries to assess These assumptions and the sensitivity of the provision to changes in the level of gross and net outstanding claims provisions required to adopt them are discussed in Note 22. a measurement basis of reserves which result in a provision in excess of 369 GRA12 5a Financial Statement 351 387 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:31 Page 370 Accounting policies continued Provisions for litigation - the Group and members of the Group are party Loan impairment provisions to legal proceedings in the United Kingdom, the United States and other The Group's loan impairment provisions are established to recognise jurisdictions, arising out of their normal business operations.
The incurred impairment losses in its portfolio of loans classified as loans and measurement and recognition of liabilities in respect of litigation involves receivables and carried at amortised cost.
A loan is impaired when there a high degree of management judgement.
Before the existence of a is objective evidence that events since the loan was granted have present obligation as the result of a past event can be confirmed, affected expected cash flows from the loan.
Such objective evidence, numerous facts may need to be established, involving extensive and indicative that a borrowers financial condition has deteriorated, can time-consuming discovery, and novel or unsettled legal questions include for loans that are individually assessed: the non-payment of addressed.
Once it is determined there is an obligation, assessing the interest or principal: debt renegotiation: probable bankruptcy or probability of economic outflows and estimating the amount of any liability liquidation: significant reduction in the value of any security: breach of can be very difficult.
In many proceedings, it is not possible to determine limits or covenants: and deteriorating trading performance and, for whether any loss is probable or to estimate the amount of any loss.
collectively assessed portfolios: the borrowers payment status and Furthermore, for an individual matter, there can be a wide range of observable data about relevant macroeconomic measures.
possible outcomes and often it is not practicable to quantify a range of such outcomes.
The Groups outstanding litigation is periodically The impairment loss is the difference between the carrying value of the assessed in consultation with external professional advisers, where loan and the present value of estimated future cash flows at the loan's appropriate, to determine the likelihood of the Group incurring a liability.
detailed description of the Groups material legal proceedings and a discussion of the nature of the associated uncertainties are given in Note At 31 December 2012, loans and advances to customers classified as 32. loans and receivables totalled 397,846 million 2011 - 427,805 million: 2010 - 482,710 million and customer loan impairment provisions Tax contingencies - determining the Groups income tax charge and its amounted to 21,136 million 2011 - 19,760 million: 2010 - 18,055 provisions for income taxes necessarily involves a significant degree of million.
The tax treatment of some transactions is uncertain and tax computations are yet to be agreed with the tax There are two components to the Group's loan impairment provisions: authorities in a number of jurisdictions.
The Group recognises anticipated individual and collective.
tax liabilities based on all available evidence and, where appropriate, in the light of external advice.
Any difference between the final outcome and Individual component - all impaired loans that exceed specific thresholds the amounts provided will affect current and deferred income tax assets are individually assessed for impairment.
Individually assessed loans and liabilities in the period when the matter is resolved.
principally comprise the Group's portfolio of commercial loans to medium and large businesses.
Impairment losses are recognised as the Deferred tax difference between the carrying value of the loan and the discounted The Group makes provision for deferred tax on temporary differences value of management's best estimate of future cash repayments and where tax recognition occurs at a different time from accounting proceeds from any security held.
These estimates take into account the recognition.
Deferred tax assets of 3,443 million were recognised as at customer's debt capacity and financial flexibility: the level and quality of 31 December 2012 2011 - 3,878 million: 2010 - 6,373 million.
its earnings: the amount and sources of cash flows: the industry in which the counterparty operates: and the realisable value of any security held.
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of losses, Estimating the quantum and timing of future recoveries involves principally in the UK, and temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are significant judgement.
The size of receipts will depend on the future recognised in respect of unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable performance of the borrower and the value of security, both of which will that there will be future UK taxable profits against which the losses can be affected by future economic conditions: additionally, collateral may not be utilised.
Business projections indicate that sufficient future taxable be readily marketable.
The actual amount of future cash flows and the income will be available against which to offset these recognised deferred date they are received may differ from these estimates and consequently tax assets within six years 2011 - six years.
The Group's cumulative actual losses incurred may differ from those recognised in these financial losses are principally attributable to the recent unparalleled market statements.
Deferred tax assets of 3,827 million 2011 - 3,246 million: 2010 - 2,008 million have not been recognised in respect of tax losses carried forward in jurisdictions where doubt exists over the availability of future taxable profits.
Further details about the Groups deferred tax assets are given in Note 23.
370 GRA12 5a Financial Statement 351 387 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:31 Page 371 RBS GROUP 2012 Collective component - this is made up of two elements: loan impairment Debt securities in issue held-for-trading and designated as at fair value provisions for impaired loans that are below individual assessment though profit or loss - principally comprise medium term notes.
thresholds collectively assessed provisions and for loan losses that have been incurred but have not been separately identified at the balance Short positions held-for-trading - arise in dealing and market making sheet date latent loss provisions.
Collectively assessed provisions are activities where debt securities and equity shares are sold which the established on a portfolio basis using a present value methodology taking Group does not currently possess.
into account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, credit scores and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The most significant Derivatives - these include swaps currency swaps, interest rate swaps, factors in establishing these provisions are the expected loss rates and credit default swaps, total return swaps and equity and equity index the related average life.
These portfolios include mortgages, credit card swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts, forward rate agreements, receivables and other personal lending.
The future credit quality of these futures currency, interest rate and equity and options exchange-traded portfolios is subject to uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses options on currencies, interest rates and equities and equity indices and to differ materially from reported loan impairment provisions.
These OTC currency and equity options, interest rate caps and floors and uncertainties include the economic environment, notably interest rates swaptions.
and their effect on customer spending, the unemployment level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
Latent loss provisions are held against Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a estimated impairment losses in the performing portfolio that have yet to liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length be identified as at the balance sheet date.
To assess the latent loss transaction.
Fair values are determined from quoted prices in active within its portfolios, the Group has developed methodologies to estimate markets for identical financial assets or financial liabilities where these the time that an asset can remain impaired within a performing portfolio are available.
Fair value for a net open position in a financial instrument before it is identified and reported as such.
in an active market is the number of units of the instrument held times the current bid price for financial assets or offer price for financial Fair value - financial instruments liabilities.
In determining the fair value of derivative financial instruments Financial instruments classified as held-for-trading or designated as at gross long and short positions measured at current mid market prices are fair value through profit or loss and financial assets classified as adjusted by bid-offer reserves calculated on a portfolio basis.
Credit available-for-sale are recognised in the financial statements at fair value.
valuation adjustments are made when valuing derivative financial assets All derivatives are measured at fair value.
Gains or losses arising from to incorporate counterparty credit risk.
Adjustments are also made when changes in the fair value of financial instruments classified as held-forvaluing financial liabilities to reflect the Groups own credit standing.
trading or designated as at fair value through profit or loss are included in Where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is the income statement.
Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale established using a valuation technique.
These valuation techniques financial assets are recognised directly in equity unless an impairment involve a degree of estimation, the extent of which depends on the loss is recognised.
instruments complexity and the availability of market-based data.
More details about the Groups valuation methodologies and the sensitivity to Financial instruments measured at fair value include: reasonably possible alternative assumptions of the fair value of financial instruments valued using techniques where at least one significant input Loans and advances held-for-trading and designated as at fair value is unobservable are given in Note 11 on pages 393 to 411. though profit or loss - principally comprise reverse repurchase agreements reverse repos and cash collateral.
Accounting developments International Financial Reporting Standards Debt securities held-for-trading, designated as at fair value though profit A number of IFRSs and amendments to IFRS were in issue at 31 or loss and available-for-sale - debt securities include those issued by December 2012 that had effective dates of 1 January 2013 or later.
governments, municipal bodies, mortgage agencies and financial institutions as well as corporate bonds, debentures and residual interests Effective for 2013 in securitisations.
The following IFRSs and amendments to IFRS have an effective date of 1 January 2013: Equity securities held-for-trading, designated as at fair value though profit or loss and available-for-sale - comprise equity shares of IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements replaces SIC-12 companies or corporations both listed and unlisted.
Consolidation - Special Purpose Entities and the consolidation elements of the existing IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
Deposits by banks and customer accounts held-for-trading and IFRS 10 adopts a single definition of control: a reporting entity controls designated as at fair value though profit or loss - deposits measured at another entity when the reporting entity has the power to direct the fair value principally include repurchase agreements repos and cash activities of that other entity so as to vary returns for the reporting entity.
The Group continues to assess aspects of IFRS 10.
However implementation is not expected to have a material effect on the Groups financial statements.
371 GRA12 5a Financial Statement 351 387 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:31 Page 372 Accounting policies continued IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, which supersedes IAS 31 Interests in Effective after 2013 Joint Ventures, distinguishes between joint operations and joint ventures.
In October 2012, the IASB issued Investment Entities amendments to Joint operations are accounted for by the investor recognising its assets IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27.
The amendments apply to investment and liabilities including its share of any assets held and liabilities incurred entities: entities whose business is to invest funds solely for returns from jointly and its share of revenues and costs.
Joint ventures are accounted capital appreciation, investment income or both and which evaluate the for in the investors consolidated accounts using the equity method.
IFRS performance of their investments on a fair value basis.
The amendments 11 requires retrospective application.
Implementation of IFRS 11 will not provide an exception to IFRS 10 by requiring investment entities to have a material effect on the Groups financial statements.
measure their subsidiaries other than those that provide services related to the entitys investment activities at fair value through profit or loss, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities covers disclosures for rather than consolidate them.
The amendments are effective from 1 entities reporting under IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 replacing those in IAS 28 January 2014. and IAS 27.
Entities are required to disclose information that helps financial statement readers evaluate the nature, risks and financial effects In December 2011, the IASB issued Offsetting Financial Assets and associated with an entitys interests in subsidiaries, in associates and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32.
The amendments add joint arrangements and in unconsolidated structured entities.
application guidance to IAS 32 to address inconsistencies identified in applying some of the standards criteria for offsetting financial assets and IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements comprises those parts of the financial liabilities.
The amendments are effective for annual periods existing IAS 27 that deal with separate financial statements.
IAS 28 beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and must be applied Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures covers joint ventures as retrospectively.
well as associates: both must be accounted for using the equity method.
The mechanics of the equity method are unchanged.
These two revised The Group is reviewing these amendments to determine their effect on standards will have no material effect on the Groups financial the Groups financial reporting.
In November 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Although IFRS 10-12 as amended and revised IAS 27 and IAS 28 have simplifying the classification and measurement requirements in IAS 39 in an effective date of 1 January 2013, they have been endorsed by the EU respect of financial assets.
The standard reduces the measurement for application from 1 January 2014.
However, early adoption is permitted categories for financial assets to two: fair value and amortised cost.
A and the Group implemented these standards from 1 January 2013. financial asset is classified on the basis of the entity's business model for managing the financial asset and the contractual cash flow characteristics IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement sets out a single IFRS framework for of the financial asset.
Only assets with contractual terms that give rise to defining and measuring fair value and requiring disclosures about fair cash flows on specified dates that are solely payments of principal and value measurements.
Implementation of IFRS 13 will not have a material interest on principal and which are held within a business model whose effect on the Groups financial statements.
objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash flows are classified as amortised cost.
All other financial assets are measured at Disclosures - Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities fair value.
Changes in the value of financial assets measured at fair value Amendments to IFRS 7 amended IFRS 7 to require disclosures about are generally taken to profit or loss.
the effects and potential effects on an entitys financial position of offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities and related In October 2010, IFRS 9 was updated to include requirements in respect arrangements.
of the classification and measurement of liabilities.
These do not differ markedly from those in IAS 39 except for the treatment of changes in the IAS 19 Employee Benefits revised requires: the immediate recognition fair value of financial liabilities that are designated as at fair value through of all actuarial gains and losses eliminating the corridor approach: profit or loss attributable to own credit: these must be presented in other interest cost to be calculated on the net pension liability or asset at the comprehensive income.
long-term bond rate, an expected rate of return will no longer be applied to assets: and all past service costs to be recognised immediately when a In December 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 9 and to IFRS scheme is curtailed or amended.
If the Group had adopted IAS 19 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures delaying the effective date of IFRS revised as at 31 December 2012, profit after tax for the period ended 31 9 to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 and introducing December 2012 would have been lower by 84 million 2011 - 154 revised transitional arrangements including additional transition million: 2010 - 105 million and other comprehensive income after tax disclosures.
If an entity implements IFRS 9 in 2012 the amendments higher by the same amounts.
permit it either to restate comparative periods or to provide the additional disclosures.
Additional transition disclosures must be given if Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive implementation takes place after 2012.
Income require items that will never be recognised in profit or loss to be presented separately in other comprehensive income from those items IFRS 9 makes major changes to the framework for the classification and that are subject to subsequent reclassification.
measurement of financial instruments and will have a significant effect on the Group's financial statements.
The Group is assessing the effect of Annual Improvements 2009-2011 Cycle makes a number of minor IFRS 9 which will depend on the results of IASB's reconsideration of changes to IFRSs.
These will not have a material effect on the Groups IFRS 9s classification and measurement requirements and the outcome financial statements.
of the other phases in the development of IFRS 9.
