GRA12 5d Financial Statement 440 486 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:43 Page 444 Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 26 Share capital continued 27 Other equity On a winding-up or liquidation of the company, the holders of the nonPaid-in equity - notes issued under the company's euro medium term cumulative preference shares will be entitled to receive, out of any note programme with an initial par value of US$1,600 million and surplus assets available for distribution to the company's shareholders CAD600 million are classified as equity under IFRS.
The notes attract after payment of arrears of dividends on the cumulative preference coupons of 6.99% and 6.666% respectively until October 2017 when they shares up to the date of repayment pari passu with the cumulative change to 2.67% above the London interbank offered rate for 3-month preference shares and all other shares of the company ranking pari US dollar deposits and 2.76% above the Canadian dollar offered rate passu with the non-cumulative preference shares as regards participation respectively.
Paid-in equity of US$1,036 million was repurchased in April in the surplus assets of the company, a liquidation distribution per share 2009 and CAD279 million was repurchased in May 2010 as part of equal to the applicable redemption price detailed in the table above, liability management exercises.
together with an amount equal to dividends for the then current dividend period accrued to the date of payment, before any distribution or payment Merger reserve - on 1 January 2009, the merger reserve comprised the may be made to holders of the ordinary shares as regards participation in premium on shares issued to acquire NatWest less goodwill amortisation the surplus assets of the company.
No share premium was recorded in the company financial statements through the operation of the merger relief Except as described above, the holders of the non-cumulative preference provisions of the Companies Act 1985. shares have no right to participate in the surplus assets of the company.
Holders of the non-cumulative preference shares are not entitled to Under the arrangements for accession to APS in December 2009, the receive notice of or attend general meetings of the company except if any company issued B shares in exchange for shares in Aonach Mor Limited.
resolution is proposed for adoption by the shareholders of the company No share premium was recorded in the company financial statements to vary or abrogate any of the rights attaching to the non-cumulative through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the Companies preference shares or proposing the winding-up or liquidation of the Act 2006.
The subsequent redemption of these shares gave rise to company.
In any such case, they are entitled to receive notice of and to distributable profits of 50 million in 2011 and 12,250 million in 2010, attend the general meeting of shareholders at which such resolution is to which were transferred from merger reserve to retained earnings.
be proposed and are entitled to speak and vote on such resolution but Capital redemption reserve - under UK companies legislation, when not on any other resolution.
In addition, in the event that, prior to any shares are redeemed or purchased wholly or partly out of the company's general meeting of shareholders, the company has failed to pay in full the profits, the amount by which the company's issued share capital is three most recent quarterly dividend payments due on the nondiminished must be transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
The cumulative dollar preference shares other than Series U, the two most capital maintenance provisions of UK companies legislation apply to the recent semi-annual dividend payments due on the non-cumulative capital redemption reserve as if it were part of the companys paid up convertible dollar preference shares and the most recent dividend share capital.
payments due on the non-cumulative euro preference shares, the noncumulative sterling preference shares, the Series U non-cumulative dollar Contingent capital reserve - in December 2009, HM Treasury agreed to preference shares and the non-cumulative convertible sterling preference subscribe for up to 16 billion B shares of 1p each at 50p per share shares, the holders shall be entitled to receive notice of, attend, speak subject to certain conditions including the Group's Core Tier 1 capital and vote at such meeting on all matters together with the holders of the ratio falling below 5%.
The fair value of the consideration payable by the ordinary shares.
In these circumstances only, the rights of the holders of company on entering into this agreement amounted to 1,458 million: of the non-cumulative preference shares so to vote shall continue until the this 1,208 million was debited to the contingent capital reserve.
company shall have resumed the payment in full of the dividends in Own shares held - at 31 December 2012, 51 million ordinary shares of 1 arrears.
each of the company 2011 - 164 million: 2010 - 172 million, restated to reflect the share sub-division and consolidation which took effect in June The Group had undertaken that, unless otherwise agreed with the 2012 were held by Employee Share Trusts in respect of share awards European Commission, neither the company nor any of its direct or and options granted to employees.
Employee share trusts awarded 22.5 indirect subsidiaries excluding companies in the RBS Holdings N. V. million ordinary shares in satisfaction of the exercise of awards under Group, which are subject to different restrictions would pay external employee share plans during the year.
"investors any dividends or coupons on existing hybrid capital instruments including preference shares, B shares and upper and lower tier 2 The Group optimises capital efficiency by maintaining reserves in instruments from 30 April 2010 for a period of two years thereafter ""the subsidiaries, including regulated entities."
"Certain preference shares and Deferral Period"", or exercise any call rights in relation to these capital subordinated debt are also included within regulatory capital."
The instruments between 24 November 2009 and the end of the Deferral remittance of reserves to the company or the redemption of shares or Period, unless there was a legal obligation to do so.
Hybrid capital subordinated capital by regulated entities may be subject to maintaining instruments issued after 24 November 2009 were generally not subject to the capital resources required by the relevant regulator.
the restriction on dividend or coupon payments or call options.
On 30 April 2012, the Deferral Period for RBS Group instruments ended and in UK law prescribes that only the reserves of the company are taken into May 2012, the Group determined that it was in a position to recommence account for the purpose of making distributions and in determining the payments on these instruments.
Future coupons and dividends will only permissible applications of the share premium account.
be paid subject to, and in accordance with, the terms of the relevant instruments.
