GRA12 6 Additional Info 487 515 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:48 Page 501 RBS GROUP 2012 Description of property and equipment Stichting Administratiekantoor Beheer Financile Instellingen the The Group operates from a number of locations worldwide, principally in Foundation acceded to the CSA as amended and restated as a the UK.
At 31 December 2012, the Royal Bank and NatWest had 617 and shareholder following its acquisition of the shares held by the Dutch State 1,452 retail branches, respectively, in the UK.
Ulster Bank has a foot print in RFS Holdings pursuant to a Deed of Accession entered into between of 236 branches and an extensive network of business banking offices RFS Holdings, the company, Santander, the Dutch State and the across Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
The Dutch State remains a party to the CSA.
The CSA as Commercial had 1,399 retail banking offices including in-store branches amended and restated governs the relationships amongst the parties covering Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, New thereto in relation to the acquisition by RFS Holdings of ABN AMRO now Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island RBS Holdings N. V..
The CSA as amended and restated details, inter and Vermont.
A substantial majority of the UK branches are owned by the alia, the equity interests in RFS Holdings, the governance of RFS Royal Bank, NatWest and their subsidiaries or are held under leases with Holdings, the arrangements for the transfer of certain ABN AMRO unexpired terms of over 50 years.
The Group's principal properties businesses, assets and liabilities to the Dutch State previously Fortis include its headquarters at Gogarburn, Edinburgh, its principal offices in Bank Nederland, the company and Santander, further funding London at 135 and 280 Bishopsgate and the Drummond House obligations of the Dutch State, the company and Santander where administration centre located at South Gyle, Edinburgh.
funding is required by regulatory authorities in connection with the ABN AMRO businesses, the allocation of taxes and conduct of tax affairs and Total capital expenditure on premises excluding investment properties, the steps that the Dutch State, the company and Santander expect to computers and other equipment in the year ended 31 December 2012 take to enable the company to become the sole shareholder of RFS was 801 million 2011 - 820 million: 2010 - 656 million.
Major shareholders B Share Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement In December 2008, The Solicitor for the Affairs of Her Majesty's Treasury On 26 November 2009, the company and HM Treasury entered into the HM Treasury acquired 22,854 million ordinary shares representing Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement pursuant to which HM 57.9% of the company's issued ordinary share capital.
"During 2009, HM Treasury subscribed for the initial B shares and the Dividend Access Treasury acquired a further 16,791 million ordinary shares raising their Share the ""Acquisitions"" and agreed the terms of HM Treasury's holding to 70.3% of the company's issued ordinary share capital."
"subscription the Contingent Subscription for an additional 8 billion in aggregate in the form of further B shares the ""Contingent B shares"", In December 2009, HM Treasury acquired 51 billion B shares in the which will be issued on the same terms as the initial B shares."
The company representing the entire issued B share capital.
At 31 December Acquisitions were subject to the satisfaction of various conditions, 2012, HM Treasurys holding in the companys ordinary shares was including the company having obtained the approval of its shareholders in 65.3%.
As far as the company is aware, there have been no significant changes The company and HM Treasury further agreed the terms of the 8 billion in the percentage ownership of major shareholders of the company's Contingent Subscription of the Contingent B shares in the Acquisition and ordinary, B and preference shares during the three years ended 27 Contingent Capital Agreement.
For a period of five years from 22 February 2013.
All shareholders within a class of the company's shares December 2009 or, if earlier, until the occurrence of a termination event have the same voting rights.
"or until the company decides with FSA consent to terminate such Contingent Subscription the ""Contingent Period"", if the Core Tier 1 ratio As at 31 December 2012, almost all of the company's US$ denominated of the company falls below five per cent and if certain other conditions preference shares and American Depository Shares representing are met HM Treasury has committed to subscribe for the Contingent B ordinary shares were held by shareholders registered in the US."
All other shares in no fewer than two tranches of 6 billion and 2 billion or such shares were predominantly held by shareholders registered outside the smaller amounts as the company and HM Treasury may agree.
unused portion of the 8 billion may be subscribed in one or more further tranches.
Material contracts The company and its subsidiaries are party to various contracts in the The company may, subject to certain conditions, at any time terminate ordinary course of business.
Material contracts include the following: the Contingent Subscription in whole or in part, with the consent of the FSA.
The company is required to pay an annual fee, for the Contingent Consortium and Shareholders Agreement CSA Period, in relation to the Acquisitions and the Contingent Subscription of On 28 May 2007, Fortis Bank Nederland, the company, Santander and 320 million less four per cent per annum of the value of any B shares RFS Holdings entered into the CSA.
Fortis Bank Nederland acceded to subscribed for under the Contingent Subscription.
Such fee is payable in the CSA on 26 July 2007.
On 3 October 2008, the Dutch State acquired cash or, with HM Treasury's consent, by waiving certain UK tax reliefs Fortis Bank Nederland.
On 24 December 2008 the Dutch State acceded that are treated as deferred tax assets or through a further issue of B to the CSA following its acquisition of the shares held by Fortis Bank shares to HM Treasury.
The annual fee ceases to be payable on Nederland in RFS Holdings pursuant to a Deed of Accession entered into termination of the Contingent Subscription and if the company terminates between RFS Holdings, the company, Fortis Bank Nederland, Santander the Contingent Subscription in part, the fee will reduce proportionately.
On 1 April 2010 the CSA was restated.
It was the subject of a further amendment on 18 July 2011.
