ARSFS12 DIVISIONAL REVIEW AW Layout 1 24 03 2013 22:02 Page 11 RBS GROUP 2012 Bruce Van Saun Nathan Bostock Elaine Arden Group Finance Director Head of Restructuring and Risk Group Human Resources Director Watch or listen to Bruce Van Saun Watch or listen to Nathan Bostock www.
com AnnualReview tool-kits to help staff implement them.
aspiration of putting customers first.
Central These have helped embed the risk appetite Human Resources supported the statements agreed with the board in 2011. implementation of the Groups strategic Functions They help further to reduce the balance plan, including the disposal of Non-Core sheet and ensure that all divisions work within businesses that are part of the wind down to their agreed risk appetite.
make our balance sheet risk safe.
Group Finance Effectively embedding the risk appetite We simplified human resources policies in Group Finance is responsible for the external frameworks was central to convincing the 2012.
They are clearer and more accessible to reporting of the Groups performance and Financial Services Authority and HM Treasury our managers, who now know better what we financial position, including regulatory and that we were strong enough to exit the Asset expect of them.
We manage the Protection Scheme.
Groups capital, ensure compliance with tax Legal, Secretariat and Group Regulatory Affairs regulations and support executive decision Risk continued to influence the pay and reward Our Legal, Secretariat and Group Regulatory making through financial analysis.
Our external process at senior levels through input to Affairs functions help to set the framework reporting is highly rated by stakeholders.
objective setting and performance feedback.
within which the Group can deliver sustainable There is risk assessment of incentive schemes returns.
They operate commercially but The Treasury function drives efficient and and bonus pools, 360 degree feedback and retain their independence and professional prudent management of our balance performance management.
This helps drive judgement so they can drive a culture of sheet resources, playing a central role in the behavioural change.
Our conduct risk policy legal and regulatory compliance and good Groups participation in the UK Governments will focus on behaviours and the how part governance to protect the Group's franchise.
Funding for Lending Scheme in 2012. of the way we do things.
Group Communications Our Strategy and Corporate Finance function Human Resources Communications manages our relationships helps ensure RBS has the right portfolio of During 2012, we recognised that if RBS is to with external stakeholders and makes sure businesses, developing the Groups strategy become a really good bank, one that serves we keep our employees informed about and executing acquisitions and disposals.
customers well, we would need to be much developments in the business.
RBS wants to The team was instrumental in the successful clearer to our people about our purpose, vision be open to stakeholders and, during the year, Initial Public Offering of Direct Line Group.
Human Resources has led this Communications helped elected officials, work.
While we have some way to travel, the commentators and others gain a better Risk Management pace of activity has been intense.
By the understanding of our business and our plans.
Risk Management underpins the Group's end of 2012, 200 of our top leaders had reputation, performance and future success.
participated in sessions to help establish what We delivered risk appetite frameworks and the they will do to embed a culture that meets our 31
