Impairment of financial assets Except for US retail portfolios, where write off of the irrecoverable amount The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is any takes place within 60 - 180 days, the typical time frames from initial objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets impairment to write off for the Groups  portfolios classified as held-to-maturity, available-for-sale or loans and receivables are: is impaired.
A financial asset or portfolio of financial assets is impaired and an impairment loss incurred if there is objective evidence that an x Retail mortgages: write off occurs within 5 years, and is accelerated event or events since initial recognition of the asset have adversely where accounts are closed earlier.
affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
x Credit cards: write off of the irrecoverable amount takes place at 12 Financial assets carried at amortised cost - if there is objective evidence months: the rest is expected to be recovered over a further 3 years that an impairment loss on a financial asset or group of financial assets following which any remaining amounts outstanding are written off.
classified as loans and receivables or as held-to-maturity investments has been incurred, the Group measures the amount of the loss as the x Overdrafts and other unsecured loans: write offs occur within 6 difference between the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets years.
and the present value of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument x Business and commercial loans: write offs of commercial loans are at initial recognition.
For collateralised loans and receivables, estimated determined in the light of individual circumstances: the period does future cash flows include cash flows that may result from foreclosure less not exceed 5 years.
Business loans are generally written off within 5 the costs of obtaining and selling the collateral, whether or not years.
Amounts recovered after a loan has been written off are credited to the Where, in the course of the orderly realisation of a loan, it is exchanged loan impairment charge for the period in which they are received.
for equity shares or property, the exchange is accounted for as the sale of the loan and the acquisition of equity securities or investment property.
Financial assets carried at fair value - when a decline in the fair value of a Where the Groups interest in equity shares following the exchange is financial asset classified as available-for-sale has been recognised such that the Group controls an entity, that entity is consolidated.
directly in other comprehensive income and there is objective evidence that it is impaired, the cumulative loss is reclassified from equity to profit Impairment losses are assessed individually for financial assets that are or loss.
The loss is measured as the difference between the amortised individually significant and individually or collectively for assets that are cost of the financial asset and its current fair value.
Impairment losses on not individually significant.
In making collective impairment assessments, available-for-sale equity instruments are not reversed through profit or financial assets are grouped into portfolios on the basis of similar risk loss, but those on available-for-sale debt instruments are reversed, if characteristics.
Future cash flows from these portfolios are estimated on there is an increase in fair value that is objectively related to a the basis of the contractual cash flows and historical loss experience for subsequent event.
assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
Historical loss experience is adjusted, on the basis of observable data, to reflect current conditions not 17.
Financial liabilities affecting the period of historical experience.
Impairment losses are On initial recognition, financial liabilities are classified into held-forrecognised in profit or loss and the carrying amount of the financial asset trading: designated as at fair value through profit or loss: or amortised or group of financial assets reduced by establishing an allowance for cost.
Issues of financial liabilities measured at amortised cost are impairment losses.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the recognised on settlement date: all other regular way transactions in impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to an event financial liabilities are recognised on trade date.
after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised loss is Held-for-trading - a financial liability is classified as held-for-trading if it is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
Once an impairment loss has been incurred principally for repurchase in the near term, or forms part of a recognised on a financial asset or group of financial assets, interest portfolio of financial instruments that are managed together and for which income is recognised on the carrying amount using the rate of interest at there is evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a derivative not in a which estimated future cash flows were discounted in measuring qualifying hedge relationship.
Held-for-trading financial liabilities are impairment.
recognised at fair value with transaction costs being recognised in profit Impaired loans and receivables are written off, i. e. the impairment or loss.
Subsequently they are measured at fair value.
Gains and losses provision is applied in writing down the loan's carrying value partially or in are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
full, when the Group concludes that there is no longer any realistic prospect of recovery of part or all of the loan.
For loans that are individually assessed for impairment, the timing of write off is determined on a case-by-case basis.
Such loans are reviewed regularly and write offs will be prompted by bankruptcy, insolvency, renegotiation and similar events.
