GRA12 5a Financial Statement 351 387 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:31 Page 368 Accounting policies continued 25.
Share-based compensation Critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation The Group operates a number of share-based compensation schemes uncertainty under which it awards RBSG shares and share options to its employees.
The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting policies, Such awards are generally subject to vesting conditions: conditions that assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its financial vary the amount of cash or shares to which an employee is entitled.
UK company law and IFRS require the directors, in preparing Vesting conditions include service conditions requiring the employee to the Group's financial statements, to select suitable accounting policies, complete a specified period of service and performance conditions apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates that are requiring the employee to complete a specified period of service and reasonable and prudent.
In the absence of an applicable standard or specified performance targets to be met.
Other conditions to which an interpretation, IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting award is subject are non-vesting conditions such as a requirement to Estimates and Errors, requires management to develop and apply an save throughout the vesting period.
accounting policy that results in relevant and reliable information in the light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS dealing with similar and The cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of related issues and the IASB's Conceptual Framework for Financial shares or share options granted is measured by reference to the fair Reporting.
The judgements and assumptions involved in the Group's value of the shares or share options on the date the award is granted and accounting policies that are considered by the Board to be the most takes into account non-vesting conditions and market performance important to the portrayal of its financial condition are discussed below.
conditions conditions related to the market price of RBSG shares : an The use of estimates, assumptions or models that differ from those award is treated as vesting irrespective of whether any market adopted by the Group would affect its reported results.
performance condition or non-vesting condition is met.
The fair value of options granted is estimated using valuation techniques which Pensions incorporate exercise price, term, risk-free interest rates, the current share The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes as price and its expected volatility.
The cost is expensed on a straight-line described in Note 4 on the accounts.
The assets of the schemes are basis over the vesting period the period during which all the specified measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
Scheme liabilities vesting conditions must be satisfied with a corresponding increase in are measured using the projected unit credit method, which takes equity in an equity-settled award, or a corresponding liability in a cashaccount of projected earnings increases, using actuarial assumptions that settled award.
The cost is adjusted for vesting conditions other than give the best estimate of the future cash flows that will arise under the market performance conditions so as to reflect the number of shares or scheme liabilities.
These cash flows are discounted at the interest rate share options that actually vest.
applicable to high-quality corporate bonds of the same currency and term as the liabilities.
Any recognisable surplus or deficit of scheme assets If an award is modified, the original cost continues to be recognised as if over liabilities is recorded in the balance sheet as an asset surplus or there had been no modification.
Where modification increases the fair liability deficit.
value of the award, this increase is recognised as an expense over the modified vesting period.
A new award of shares or share options is In determining the value of scheme liabilities, financial and demographic treated as the modification of a cancelled award if, on the date the new assumptions are made including price inflation, pension increases, award is granted, the Group identifies them as replacing the cancelled earnings growth and the longevity of scheme members.
The cancellation of an award through failure to meet non-vesting assumptions could be adopted in valuing the schemes' liabilities.
Different conditions triggers an immediate expense for any unrecognised element assumptions could significantly alter the amount of the surplus or deficit of the cost of an award.
recognised in the balance sheet and the pension cost charged to the income statement.
The assumptions adopted for the Group's pension 26.
Cash and cash equivalents schemes are set out in Note 4 on the accounts, together with sensitivities In the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprises cash of the balance sheet and income statement to changes in those and demand deposits with banks together with short-term highly liquid assumptions.
investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of change in value.
A pension asset of 144 million and a liability of 3,884 million were recognised on the balance sheet at 31 December 2012 2011 - asset 188 million, liability 2,239 million: 2010 - asset 105 million, liability 2,288 million.
