GRA12 5b Financial Statement 388 420 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:35 Page 412 Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 12 Financial instruments - maturity analysis Remaining maturity The following table shows the residual maturity of financial instruments, based on contractual date of maturity.
receipts and payments of interest of on-balance sheet assets by contractual maturity.
The balances in the following table do not agree For example, if a structured note is automatically prepaid when an equity directly with the consolidated balance sheet, as the table includes all index exceeds a certain level, the cash outflow will be included in the less cash flows relating to principal and future coupon payments, presented than three months period, whatever the level of the index at the year end.
The tables have been prepared on the The settlement date of debt securities in issue, issued by certain following basis: securitisation vehicles consolidated by the Group, depends on when cash flows are received from the securitised assets.
Where these assets are The contractual maturity of on-balance sheet assets and liabilities prepayable, the timing of the cash outflow relating to securities assumes highlights the maturity transformation which underpins the role of banks that each asset will be prepaid at the earliest possible date.
As the to lend long-term, but to fund themselves predominantly by short-term repayments of assets and liabilities are linked, the repayment of assets in liabilities such as customer deposits.
This is achieved through the securitisations is shown on the earliest date that the asset can be diversified funding franchise of the Group across an extensive retail, prepaid, as this is the basis used for liabilities.
wealth and SME customer base, and across a wide geographic network.
In practice, the behavioural profiles of many assets and liabilities exhibit The principal amounts of financial assets and liabilities that are repayable greater stability and longer maturity than the contractual maturity.
after 20 years or where the counterparty has no right to repayment of the principal are excluded from the table, as are interest payments after 20 Financial assets have been reflected in the time band of the latest date years.
on which they could be repaid, unless earlier repayment can be demanded by the Group.
Financial liabilities are included at the earliest Held-for-trading assets and  assets of 666.5 date on which the counterparty can require repayment, regardless of billion and liabilities of 628.2 billion 2011 - 763.3 billion assets and whether or not such early repayment results in a penalty.
If the 708.0 billion liabilities: 2010 - 665.0 billion assets and 586.1 billion repayment of a financial instrument is triggered by, or is subject to, liabilities have been excluded from the following tables in view of their specific criteria such as market price hurdles being reached, the asset is short-term nature.
included in the time band that contains the latest date on which it can be repaid, regardless of early repayment.
