GRA12 5a Financial Statement 351 387 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:31 Page 366 Accounting policies continued Designated as at fair value through profit or loss - financial liabilities may a contractual obligation to pay those cash flows to a third party.
After a be designated as at fair value through profit or loss only if such transfer, the Group assesses the extent to which it has retained the risks designation a eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset.
The asset remains on recognition inconsistency: or b applies to a group of financial assets, the balance sheet if substantially all the risks and rewards have been financial liabilities or both that the Group manages and evaluates on a fair retained.
It is derecognised if substantially all the risks and rewards have value basis: or c relates to an instrument that contains an embedded been transferred.
If substantially all the risks and rewards have been derivative which is not evidently closely related to the host contract.
neither retained nor transferred, the Group assesses whether or not it has retained control of the asset.
If the Group has retained control of the Financial liabilities that the Group designates on initial recognition as asset, it continues to recognise the asset to the extent of its continuing being at fair value through profit or loss are recognised at fair value, with involvement: if the Group has not retained control of the asset, it is transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss, and are subsequently derecognised.
Gains and losses on financial liabilities that are designated as at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in profit A financial liability is removed from the balance sheet when the obligation or loss as they arise.
is discharged, or cancelled, or expires.
On the redemption or settlement of debt securities including subordinated liabilities issued by the Group, Financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss the Group derecognises the debt instrument and records a gain or loss principally comprise structured liabilities issued by the Group: designation being the difference between the debt's carrying amount and the cost of significantly reduces the measurement inconsistency between these redemption or settlement.
The same treatment applies where the debt is liabilities and the related derivatives carried at fair value.
exchanged for a new debt issue that has terms substantially different from those of the existing debt.
The assessment of whether the terms of Amortised cost - all other financial liabilities are measured at amortised the new debt instrument are substantially different takes into account cost using the effective interest method see Accounting policy 3. qualitative and quantitative characteristics including a comparison of the present value of the cash flows under the new terms with the present Fair value - fair value for a net open position in a financial liability that is value of the remaining cash flows of the original debt issue discounted at quoted in an active market is the current offer price times the number of the effective interest rate of the original debt issue.
units of the instrument issued.
Fair values for financial liabilities not quoted in an active market are determined using appropriate valuation 21.
Sale and repurchase transactions techniques including discounting future cash flows, option pricing models Securities subject to a sale and repurchase agreement under which and other methods that are consistent with accepted economic substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the methodologies for pricing financial liabilities see Note 11 Financial Group continue to be shown on the balance sheet and the sale proceeds instruments - valuation.
Securities acquired in a reverse sale and repurchase transaction under which the Group is not exposed to 18.
Financial guarantee contracts substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are not recognised on Under a financial guarantee contract, the Group, in return for a fee, the balance sheet and the consideration paid is recorded as a financial undertakes to meet a customers obligations under the terms of a debt asset.
instrument if the customer fails to do so.
A financial guarantee is recognised as a liability: initially at fair value and, if not designated as at Securities borrowing and lending transactions are usually secured by fair value through profit or loss, subsequently at the higher of its initial cash or securities advanced by the borrower.
Borrowed securities are not value less cumulative amortisation and any provision under the contract recognised on the balance sheet or lent securities derecognised.
Cash measured in accordance with Accounting policy 13.
Amortisation is collateral given or received is treated as a loan or deposit: collateral in the calculated so as to recognise fees receivable in profit or loss over the form of securities is not recognised.
However, where securities borrowed period of the guarantee.
are transferred to third parties, a liability for the obligation to return the securities to the stock lending counterparty is recorded.
Loan commitments Provision is made for loan commitments, other than those classified as 22.
Netting held-for-trading, if it is probable that the facility will be drawn and the Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount resulting loan will be recognised at a value less than the cash advanced.
presented in the balance sheet when, and only when, the Group currently Syndicated loan commitments in excess of the level of lending under the has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and it commitment approved for retention by the Group are classified as heldintends either to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the for-trading and measured at fair value.
The Group is party to a number of arrangements, including master netting agreements, that give it the right to offset 20.
Derecognition financial assets and financial liabilities but where it does not intend to A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual right to receive settle the amounts net or simultaneously and therefore the assets and cash flows from the asset has expired or when it has been transferred liabilities concerned are presented gross.
and the transfer qualifies for derecognition.
A transfer requires that the Group either a transfers the contractual rights to receive the asset's cash flows: or b retains the right to the asset's cash flows but assumes 366
