ARSFS12 ESS READING & BUS STRAT AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:03 Page 14 OUR BUSINESS AND OUR STRATEGY Q&As When we speak to our investors, some questions are asked more often than others.
Below we provide a selection of those frequently asked questions and answers The Dividend Access Share entitles the What is the trend in your margins?
When will you return to profitability?
Q Q Government to a dividend on issued B Shares at the higher of 7%, or 2.5x the ordinary Group net interest margin was broadly stable dividend.
This could be a barrier to resuming RBS has been profitable on an operating basis over the year meaning the profitability of taking ordinary dividends in the near term.
However the Group in savings and lending to our customers stayed Resolution of this issue could be achieved has continued to incur significant costs in broadly constant.
This is a struggle with via engagement with the Government at some resolving the sins of the past, such as: interest rates so low but an important sign time in the future, when the Group feels it is restructuring costs, conduct related fines, of financial resilience.
closer to announcing the resumption of and impairments on legacy portfolios.
With the culmination of the restructuring When will I receive a dividend?
phase of our strategic plan in 2013, these Q When will the UK Government associated exceptional costs should start Q sell its shares?
to significantly reduce from next year.
Over the last two years RBS has been The UK Government created UK Financial subject to dividend restrictions imposed by the We retain the conviction that the underlying Investments UKFI to manage its European Commission.
This prevented us from businesses of RBS can deliver sustainable shareholdings in financial institutions.
paying dividends on ordinary shares, B shares profitability using a more conservative and hybrid securities, unless we had a legal business model.
UKFIs overarching objective is to manage obligation to do so.
these shareholdings commercially and to devise and execute a strategy for realising With the exception of certain securities issued How are you controlling expenses?
Q value in an orderly and active way over time.
by the RBS N. V. legal entity, this restriction has For further details please see: expired and the Group has resumed payment http: www.
co. uk about-us what-we-do to date on hybrid securities.
Disciplined cost management has been a foundation of our strategic plan.
The Group's As a consequence, the decision of when With the resumption of payments on hybrid cost reduction programme realised over to sell, and to whom, is at the full discretion securities, the Board is in the legal position 3.6 billion of sustainable savings to date, of UKFI and the Government.
to consider the payment of dividends on versus its original 2.5 billion target.
seen Group operating costs reduce by 18%, To best facilitate this process, the Group remain or 3.2 billion, since 2008.
We have embedded focussed on delivering a sustainable, attractive Considerations around timing of any cost discipline across our Core businesses, and profitable business with a strong such decision will primarily be driven by, where operating expenses are down 9% investment proposition.
the Groups operating environment since 2009.
Non-Core's costs have significantly and profitability: reduced, and should continue to fall as we approach the end of the active uncertainty around regulatory capital run-down process.
adequacy requirements, most notably the impact of Basel III: and the Dividend Access Share held by the UK Government 14
