Leases match the extent to which premiums written during the year are unearned As lessor at the balance sheet date.
The principal acquisition costs deferred are Contracts with customers to lease assets are classified as finance leases direct advertising expenditure, third party administration fees, commission if they transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the paid and costs associated with telesales and underwriting staff.
asset to the customer: all other contracts with customers to lease assets are classified as operating leases.
Reinsurance - the Group cedes insurance risk in the normal course of business.
Reinsurance assets represent balances due from reinsurance Finance lease receivables are included in the balance sheet, within companies.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated on a Loans and advances to banks and Loans and advances to customers, at basis consistent with the outstanding claims provision or settled claims the amount of the net investment in the lease being the minimum lease associated with the reinsurer's policies and are in accordance with the payments and any unguaranteed residual value discounted at the interest related reinsurance contract.
A reinsurance bad debt provision is rate implicit in the lease.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting assessed in respect of reinsurance debtors.
periods so as to give a constant periodic rate of return before tax on the net investment and included in Interest receivable.
Provisions residual values are subject to regular review: if there is a reduction in The Group recognises a provision for a present obligation resulting from their value, income allocation is revised and any reduction in respect of a past event when it is more likely than not that it will be required to amounts accrued is recognised immediately.
transfer economic benefits to settle the obligation and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised in income on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless another systematic basis Provision is made for restructuring costs, including the costs of better represents the time pattern of the assets use.
Operating lease redundancy, when the Group has a constructive obligation to restructure.
assets are included within Property, plant and equipment and depreciated An obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the over their useful lives see Accounting policy 7.
Operating lease rentals restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected by receivable are included in Other operating income.
starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features.
As lessee If the Group has a contract that is onerous, it recognises the present The Groups contracts to lease assets are principally operating leases.
obligation under the contract as a provision.
An onerous contract is one Operating lease rental expense is included in Premises and equipment where the unavoidable costs of meeting the Groups contractual costs and recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the obligations exceed the expected economic benefits.
When the Group lease term unless another systematic basis better represents the benefit vacates a leasehold property, a provision is recognised for the costs to the Group.
under the lease less any expected economic benefits such as rental income.
General insurance Premiums earned - insurance and reinsurance premiums receivable for Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past events, the whole period of cover provided by contracts incepted during the year whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events, or are adjusted by an unearned premium provision, which represents the present obligations arising from past events that are not recognised proportion of the premiums that relate to periods of insurance after the because either an outflow of economic benefits is not probable or the balance sheet date.
Unearned premiums are calculated over the period amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent of exposure under the policy, on a daily basis, 24ths basis or allowing for liabilities are not recognised but information about them is disclosed the estimated incidence of exposure under policies.
unless the possibility of any outflow of economic benefits in settlement is remote.
Insurance claims - insurance claims are recognised in the accounting period in which the loss occurs.
Provision is made for the full cost of 14.
Tax settling outstanding claims at the balance sheet date, including claims Income tax expense or income, comprising current tax and deferred tax, incurred but not yet reported at that date.
Outstanding claims provisions is recorded in the income statement except income tax on items are not discounted for the time value of money except for claims to be recognised outside profit or loss which is credited or charged to other settled by periodical payments.
Claims handling expenses are also comprehensive income or to equity as appropriate.
Current tax is income tax payable or recoverable in respect of the taxable Deferred acquisition costs - acquisition costs relating to new and profit or loss for the year arising in profit or loss, other comprehensive renewing insurance policies are matched with the earning of the income or equity.
Provision is made for current tax at rates enacted or premiums to which they relate.
A proportion of acquisition costs incurred substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
during the year are deferred to the subsequent accounting period to 363
