GRA12 5a Financial Statement 351 387 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:31 Page 360 Accounting policies 1.
Revenue recognition The accounts are prepared on a going concern basis see the Report of Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and the directors, page 347 and in accordance with International Financial receivables, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity and interest expense on Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards financial liabilities other than those measured at fair value are determined Board IASB and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a Committee of the IASB as adopted by the European Union EU together method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or financial IFRS.
The EU has not adopted the complete text of IAS 39 Financial liability or group of financial assets or liabilities and of allocating the Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: it has relaxed some of the interest income or interest expense over the expected life of the asset or standard's hedging requirements.
The Group has not taken advantage of liability.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts this relaxation: its financial statements are prepared in accordance with estimated future cash flows to the instrument's initial carrying amount.
IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees payable or receivable that are an integral part of the instrument's yield, premiums The company is incorporated in the UK and registered in Scotland and its or discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and accounts are presented in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. transaction costs.
All contractual terms of a financial instrument are considered when estimating future cash flows.
In accordance with IFRS 5, Direct Line Group has been classified as a discontinued operation, and prior periods represented.
Financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading or designated as at fair value through profit or loss are recorded at fair value.
Changes in There are two amendments to IFRS that were effective for the Group fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
They have not had a material effect on the financial statements of the Group or the company: Commitment and utilisation fees are determined as a percentage of the outstanding facility.
If it is unlikely that a specific lending arrangement will Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets Amendments to IAS 12 be entered into, such fees are taken to profit or loss over the life of the Income Taxes clarifies that recognition of deferred tax should have facility otherwise they are deferred and included in the effective interest regard to the expected manner of recovery or settlement of the asset or rate on the advance.
Fees in respect of services are recognised as the right to consideration Disclosures - Transfers of Financial Assets Amendments to IFRS 7 accrues through the provision of the service to the customer.
The Financial Instruments: Disclosures replaces IFRS 7s existing arrangements are generally contractual and the cost of providing the derecognition disclosure requirements with disclosures about a service is incurred as the service is rendered.
The price is usually fixed transferred assets that have not been derecognised in their entirety and and always determinable.
The application of this policy to significant fee b transferred assets that have been derecognised in their entirety but types is outlined below.
where the reporting entity has continuing involvement in those assets.
Payment services - this comprises income received for payment services 2.
Basis of consolidation including cheques cashed, direct debits, Clearing House Automated The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Payments the UK electronic settlement system and BACS payments statements of the company and entities including certain special purpose the automated clearing house that processes direct debits and direct entities that are controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group credits.
These are generally charged on a per transaction basis.
The has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity: income is earned when the payment or transaction occurs.
Charges for generally conferred by holding a majority of voting rights.
On acquisition payment services are usually debited to the customer's account monthly of a subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities or quarterly in arrears.
Income is accrued at period end for services are included in the consolidated accounts at their fair value.
A subsidiary provided but not yet charged.
is included in the consolidated financial statements from the date it is controlled by the Group until the date the Group ceases to control it Card related services - fees from credit card business include: through a sale or a significant change in circumstances.
Changes in the Groups interest in a subsidiary that do not result in the Group ceasing to x Commission received from retailers for processing credit and debit control that subsidiary are accounted for as equity transactions.
card transactions: income is accrued to the income statement as the service is performed.
Changes in x Interchange received: as issuer, the Group receives a fee their fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
interchange each time a cardholder purchases goods and services.
The Group also receives interchange fees from other card issuers for providing cash advances through its branch and automated teller machine networks.
These fees are accrued once the transaction has taken place.
x An annual fee payable by a credit card holder is deferred and taken to profit or loss over the period of the service i. e. 12 months.
