GRA12 6 Additional Info 487 515 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:48 Page 501 RBS GROUP 2012 Description of property and equipment Stichting Administratiekantoor Beheer Financile Instellingen the The Group operates from a number of locations worldwide, principally in Foundation acceded to the CSA as amended and restated as a the UK.
At 31 December 2012, the Royal Bank and NatWest had 617 and shareholder following its acquisition of the shares held by the Dutch State 1,452 retail branches, respectively, in the UK.
Ulster Bank has a foot print in RFS Holdings pursuant to a Deed of Accession entered into between of 236 branches and an extensive network of business banking offices RFS Holdings, the company, Santander, the Dutch State and the across Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
The Dutch State remains a party to the CSA.
The CSA as Commercial had 1,399 retail banking offices including in-store branches amended and restated governs the relationships amongst the parties covering Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, New thereto in relation to the acquisition by RFS Holdings of ABN AMRO now Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island RBS Holdings N. V..
The CSA as amended and restated details, inter and Vermont.
A substantial majority of the UK branches are owned by the alia, the equity interests in RFS Holdings, the governance of RFS Royal Bank, NatWest and their subsidiaries or are held under leases with Holdings, the arrangements for the transfer of certain ABN AMRO unexpired terms of over 50 years.
The Group's principal properties businesses, assets and liabilities to the Dutch State previously Fortis include its headquarters at Gogarburn, Edinburgh, its principal offices in Bank Nederland, the company and Santander, further funding London at 135 and 280 Bishopsgate and the Drummond House obligations of the Dutch State, the company and Santander where administration centre located at South Gyle, Edinburgh.
funding is required by regulatory authorities in connection with the ABN AMRO businesses, the allocation of taxes and conduct of tax affairs and Total capital expenditure on premises excluding investment properties, the steps that the Dutch State, the company and Santander expect to computers and other equipment in the year ended 31 December 2012 take to enable the company to become the sole shareholder of RFS was 801 million 2011 - 820 million: 2010 - 656 million.
Major shareholders B Share Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement In December 2008, The Solicitor for the Affairs of Her Majesty's Treasury On 26 November 2009, the company and HM Treasury entered into the HM Treasury acquired 22,854 million ordinary shares representing Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement pursuant to which HM 57.9% of the company's issued ordinary share capital.
"During 2009, HM Treasury subscribed for the initial B shares and the Dividend Access Treasury acquired a further 16,791 million ordinary shares raising their Share the ""Acquisitions"" and agreed the terms of HM Treasury's holding to 70.3% of the company's issued ordinary share capital."
"subscription the Contingent Subscription for an additional 8 billion in aggregate in the form of further B shares the ""Contingent B shares"", In December 2009, HM Treasury acquired 51 billion B shares in the which will be issued on the same terms as the initial B shares."
The company representing the entire issued B share capital.
At 31 December Acquisitions were subject to the satisfaction of various conditions, 2012, HM Treasurys holding in the companys ordinary shares was including the company having obtained the approval of its shareholders in 65.3%.
As far as the company is aware, there have been no significant changes The company and HM Treasury further agreed the terms of the 8 billion in the percentage ownership of major shareholders of the company's Contingent Subscription of the Contingent B shares in the Acquisition and ordinary, B and preference shares during the three years ended 27 Contingent Capital Agreement.
For a period of five years from 22 February 2013.
All shareholders within a class of the company's shares December 2009 or, if earlier, until the occurrence of a termination event have the same voting rights.
"or until the company decides with FSA consent to terminate such Contingent Subscription the ""Contingent Period"", if the Core Tier 1 ratio As at 31 December 2012, almost all of the company's US$ denominated of the company falls below five per cent and if certain other conditions preference shares and American Depository Shares representing are met HM Treasury has committed to subscribe for the Contingent B ordinary shares were held by shareholders registered in the US."
All other shares in no fewer than two tranches of 6 billion and 2 billion or such shares were predominantly held by shareholders registered outside the smaller amounts as the company and HM Treasury may agree.
unused portion of the 8 billion may be subscribed in one or more further tranches.
Material contracts The company and its subsidiaries are party to various contracts in the The company may, subject to certain conditions, at any time terminate ordinary course of business.
Material contracts include the following: the Contingent Subscription in whole or in part, with the consent of the FSA.
The company is required to pay an annual fee, for the Contingent Consortium and Shareholders Agreement CSA Period, in relation to the Acquisitions and the Contingent Subscription of On 28 May 2007, Fortis Bank Nederland, the company, Santander and 320 million less four per cent per annum of the value of any B shares RFS Holdings entered into the CSA.
Fortis Bank Nederland acceded to subscribed for under the Contingent Subscription.
Such fee is payable in the CSA on 26 July 2007.
On 3 October 2008, the Dutch State acquired cash or, with HM Treasury's consent, by waiving certain UK tax reliefs Fortis Bank Nederland.
On 24 December 2008 the Dutch State acceded that are treated as deferred tax assets or through a further issue of B to the CSA following its acquisition of the shares held by Fortis Bank shares to HM Treasury.
The annual fee ceases to be payable on Nederland in RFS Holdings pursuant to a Deed of Accession entered into termination of the Contingent Subscription and if the company terminates between RFS Holdings, the company, Fortis Bank Nederland, Santander the Contingent Subscription in part, the fee will reduce proportionately.
On 1 April 2010 the CSA was restated.
It was the subject of a further amendment on 18 July 2011.
On 7 November 2012, 501 GRA12 6 Additional Info 487 515 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:48 Page 502 Additional information continued Material contracts continued State Aid Commitment Deed The company gave certain representations and warranties to HM As a result of the State Aid granted to the company, it was required to Treasury on the date of the Acquisition and Contingent Capital work with HM Treasury to submit a State Aid restructuring plan to the Agreement, on the date the circular was posted to shareholders, on the European Commission, which has now been approved under the State first date on which all of the conditions precedent were satisfied, or Aid rules.
The company has agreed a series of measures to be waived, and on the date of the Acquisitions.
The company has agreed to implemented over a four year period, which supplement the measures in give such representations and warranties again on each date if any a the company's strategic plan.
Contingent Subscription is triggered and on each date if any on which B shares are issued pursuant to a Contingent Subscription.
The Group entered into a State Aid Commitment Deed with HM Treasury which provides that the Group will comply or procure compliance with The company agreed to reimburse HM Treasury for its expenses incurred these measures and behavioural commitments.
The Group agreed to do in connection with the Acquisitions and agreed to do so in connection all acts and things necessary to ensure HM Treasury's compliance with with the Contingent B shares, if the Contingent Subscription is exercised.
its obligations under any European Commission decision approving State Aid to the Group.
"The company agreed to a number of undertakings, including with respect to: i restrictions on the payment of dividends or other distributions on, The State Aid Commitment Deed also provides that if the European and the redemption of, certain securities: ii expectations regarding the Commission adopts a decision that the UK Government must recover any repurchase of the B shares by the company: iii renegotiations of the State Aid a ""Repayment Decision"" and the recovery order of the terms of the Contingent Subscription as a result of future legislative or Repayment Decision has not been annulled or suspended by the Court of regulatory changes: iv negotiating in good faith to maintain the status of First Instance now the General Court or the European Court of Justice, the B shares and Dividend Access Share as Core Tier 1 capital: and v then the Group must repay HM Treasury any aid ordered to be recovered restrictions in relation to the company's share premium account."
HM Treasury has agreed to waive its statutory pre-emption rights arising The State Aid Commitment Deed also provides for the Group's out of the B shares and the Dividend Access Share in respect of any undertakings in respect of State Aid to be modified in certain limited future issue of equity securities by the company other than B shares and circumstances.
However, HM Treasury has undertaken that it will not, has agreed to vote its B shares and the Dividend Access Share, as without the consent of the Group, agree modifications to the Group's applicable, in favour of each special resolution to disapply its preundertakings with respect to State Aid which are significantly more emption rights under the B shares and or the Dividend Access Share onerous to the Group than those granted in order to obtain the State Aid then held by HM Treasury every time they arise.
arising out of the B shares and the Dividend Access Share have also been disapplied in the Articles of Association.
State Aid Costs Reimbursement Deed Under the State Aid Costs Reimbursement Deed, the Group has agreed HM Treasury has agreed that it shall not be entitled to exercise its option to reimburse HM Treasury for fees, costs and expenses associated with to convert B shares into ordinary shares to the extent that it holds more the State Aid and State Aid approval.
than 75 per cent of the ordinary shares of the company or to the extent that the exercise of such option would result in it holding more than 75 Sale of RBS Aviation Capital to Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation per cent of the ordinary shares of the company.
On 16 January 2012, the Royal Bank and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation SMBC entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement HM Treasury has agreed that it shall not be entitled to vote the B shares pursuant to which the Royal Bank agreed to sell its aircraft leasing or the Dividend Access Share to the extent that votes cast on such B business, RBS Aviation Capital, to SMBC, acting on behalf of a shares and the Dividend Access Share, together with any other votes consortium comprising its parent, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, and which HM Treasury is entitled to cast in respect of any other ordinary Sumitomo Corporation.
The sale completed on 1 June 2012 following shares held by or on behalf of HM Treasury, would exceed 75 per cent of satisfaction of various conditions.
As a result of the sale, the consortium the total votes eligible to be cast on a resolution proposed at a general has acquired RBS Aviation Capital for consideration of US$7.3 billion meeting of the company.
The consideration was paid in cash and was subject to certain closing adjustments.
For as long as it is a substantial shareholder of the company within the meaning of the UKLA's Listing Rules, HM Treasury has undertaken not to vote on related party transaction resolutions at general meetings and to direct that its affiliates do not so vote.
