GRA12 5a Financial Statement 351 387 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:31 Page 361 RBS GROUP 2012 Investment management fees - fees charged for managing investments present value of any economic benefits available to the Group in the form are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Incremental of refunds from the plan or reduced contributions to it.
The current service costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment management cost, curtailments and any past service costs together with the expected contract are deferred and charged as expense as the related revenue is return on scheme assets less the unwinding of the discount on scheme recognised.
liabilities are charged to operating expenses.
A gain or loss on a curtailment is recognised in profit or loss when the curtailment occurs.
A Insurance premiums - see Accounting policy 12. curtailment occurs when the Group is committed to making a significant reduction in the number of employees covered by a plan or a plan is 4.
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations amended such that future service qualifies for no or reduced benefits.
A non-current asset or disposal group is classified as held for sale if the Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which Group will recover its carrying amount principally through a sale they arise in other comprehensive income.
Contributions to defined transaction rather than through continuing use.
A non-current asset or contribution pension schemes are recognised in profit or loss when disposal group classified as held for sale is measured at the lower of its payable.
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
If the asset or disposal group is acquired as part of a business combination it is initially 6.
Intangible assets and goodwill measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Assets and liabilities of disposal Intangible assets acquired by the Group are stated at cost less groups classified as held for sale and non-current assets classified as accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is held for sale are shown separately on the face of the balance sheet.
charged to profit or loss over the assets' estimated economic lives using The results of discontinued operations - comprising the post-tax profit or methods that best reflect the pattern of economic benefits and included in loss of discontinued operations and the post-tax gain or loss recognised Depreciation and amortisation.
These estimated useful economic lives either on measurement to fair value less costs to sell or on disposal of the are: discontinued operation - are shown as a single amount on the face of the income statement: an analysis of this amount is presented in Note 20 on Core deposit intangibles 6 to 10 years the accounts.
A discontinued operation is a cash generating unit or a Other acquired intangibles 5 to 10 years group of cash generating units that either has been disposed of, or is Computer software 3 to 12 years classified as held for sale, and a represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, b is part of a single coExpenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is written-off as ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or incurred.
Direct costs relating to the development of internal-use geographical area of operations or c is a subsidiary acquired exclusively computer software are capitalised once technical feasibility and economic with a view to resale.
These costs include payroll, the costs of materials and services, and directly attributable overheads.
Employee benefits of costs ceases when the software is capable of operating as intended.
Short-term employee benefits, such as salaries, paid absences, and During and after development, accumulated costs are reviewed for other benefits are accounted for on an accruals basis over the period in impairment against the benefits that the software is expected to generate.
which the employees provide the related services.
Employees may Costs incurred prior to the establishment of technical feasibility and receive variable compensation satisfied by cash, by debt instruments economic viability are expensed as incurred as are all training costs and issued by the Group or by RBSG shares.
The treatment of share-based general overheads.
The costs of licences to use computer software that compensation is set out in Accounting policy 25.
Variable compensation are expected to generate economic benefits beyond one year are also that is settled in cash or debt instruments is charged to profit or loss over capitalised.
the period from the start of the year to which the variable compensation relates to the expected settlement date taking account of forfeiture and Intangible assets include goodwill arising on the acquisition of clawback criteria.
Goodwill on the acquisition of a subsidiary is the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred, The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form of pensions and the fair value of any existing interest in the subsidiary and the amount of healthcare plans to eligible employees.
any non-controlling interest measured either at fair value or at its share of the subsidiarys net assets over the Group's interest in the net fair value For defined benefit schemes, scheme liabilities are measured on an of the subsidiarys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and discounted at a Goodwill arises on the acquisition of a joint venture when the cost of rate determined by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting investment exceeds the Groups share of the net fair value of the joint period on high quality corporate bonds of equivalent term and currency to ventures identifiable assets and liabilities.
Goodwill is measured at initial the scheme liabilities.
Scheme assets are measured at their fair value.
cost less any subsequent impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on the The difference between scheme assets and scheme liabilities is acquisition of associates is included within their carrying amounts.
The recognised in the balance sheet as an asset surplus or liability deficit.
gain or loss on the disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture A net surplus is limited to any unrecognised past service cost plus the includes the carrying value of any related goodwill.
