ARSFS12 DIVISIONAL REVIEW AW Layout 1 24 03 2013 22:02 Page 8 DIVISIONAL REVIEW We are innovative.
We helped UBS to raise US$2 billion.
It was the first time the Swiss bank had issued contingent capital to institutional investors.
We were the book runner on an offshore renminbi transaction for Veolia Environnement.
This was the first renminbi transaction on Euronext Paris.
We received a number of awards for our client successes.
The Euromoney Awards for Excellence named us Best Debt House in the UK.
We were Best for Sterling Issues and Best for Liability Management in the Euromoney Primary Debt Survey.
International Financing Review named us EMEA Structured Finance House of the Year for an unprecedented second year in Markets succession.
Euromoney FX Survey 2012 rated us number Peter Nielsen Suneel Kamlani one for overall client service in the EMEA Co-CEO, Markets Co-CEO, Markets time zone.
The Derivatives Intelligence Awards named us Operating profit of 1,509 million was 68 per cent higher than in 2011.
Income Interest Rate Derivatives House of the Year.
increased by 2 per cent and expenses were sharply lower, falling 16 per cent, with staff expenses down by 26 per cent.
Return on equity was up on 2011 at 10.0 per cent.
We recorded these achievements while creating Markets as a new division and reducing costs Watch or listen to Peter Nielsen and Suneel Kamlani www.
Our focus is now on serving clients in businesses where we have marketMaking RBS safer Building a better bank that serves leading products.
We took significant steps to reduce risk.
customers well We reduced our third party assets from Our job is to help clients find the money they Changing our culture 312.6 billion to 284.4 billion and we cut need so that they can invest.
Across Europe in We are changing our culture in a number risk-weighted assets from 120.3 billion to 2012, we were the leading bank in supporting of ways.
clients issuing investment grade corporate Proper conduct is a core principle for all our Changes we made to the structure of our bonds, running c. 20 billion of issues of these people.
A continual emphasis on the need to business to reduce risk.
do the right thing in the right way is part of We moved out of the cash equities and our drive to embed the right behaviours in equity risk trading businesses that had We: our culture, and treating customers fairly is made losses.
worked with the International Banking a central principle in that culture We transferred a substantial part of RBS N. V. division to organise a 1 billion refinancing We have changed how we manage people.
That made our structure simpler for the holiday company Center Parcs: The Accountability Review process ensures and reduced the capital we need to hold.
helped to raise US$2.2 billion for Formula 1: appropriate management of misconduct, we were a structuring adviser on a three-part including consequences for remuneration Improvements we made to internal controls make hybrid bond, helping BG Group strengthen Diversity and Inclusion has been a key area clear to our leaders that it is important to manage its capital structure, maintain its credit rating for the Markets business.
We have improved and diversify its funding: We launched the M&IB transformational oversight of our traders through better underwrote and arranged 700 million loan leadership programme to develop leaders supervision and tighter checks and controls.
and 466 million fund raising to allow DS who are more agile, people-focused and Smith to buy SCA Packaging to create commercially aware.
Performance highlights 2012 2011 Operating profit before impairment losses m 1,546 937 Impairment losses m 37 38 Operating profit m 1,509 899 Return on equity % 10.0 6.1 28
