GRA12 5d Financial Statement 440 486 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:43 Page 449 RBS GROUP 2012 30 Special purpose entities The Group also employs synthetic structures, where assets are not sold The Group arranges securitisations to facilitate client transactions and to the SPE, but credit derivatives are used to transfer the credit risk of the undertakes securitisations to sell financial assets or to fund specific assets to an SPE.
Securities may then be issued by the SPE to investors, portfolios of assets.
The Group also acts as an underwriter and depositor on the back of the credit protection sold to the Group by the SPE.
in securitisation transactions involving both client and proprietary transactions.
In a securitisation, assets, or interests in a pool of assets, Residential and commercial mortgages and credit card receivables form are transferred generally to a special purpose entity SPE which then the types of assets generally included in cash securitisations, while issues liabilities to third party investors.
SPEs are vehicles established for corporate loans and commercial mortgages typically serve as reference a specific, limited purpose, usually do not carry out a business or trade obligations in synthetic securitisations.
and typically have no employees.
They take a variety of legal forms - trusts, partnerships and companies - and fulfil many different functions.
The Group sponsors own-asset securitisations primarily as a way of As well as being a key element of securitisations, SPEs are also used in diversifying funding sources.
The Group purchases the securities issued fund management activities to segregate custodial duties from the fund in own-asset securitisations and may pledge as collateral for repurchase management advice provided by the Group.
agreements with major central banks.
The Group applies the guidance in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Refer to Note 29 on page 447 for the asset categories, together with the Financial Statements and SIC 12 Consolidation - Special Purpose carrying value of the assets and associated liabilities for those Entities in determining whether or not to consolidate an SPE.
SPEs are securitisations and other asset transfers, other than conduits, where the consolidated where the substance of the relationship between the Group assets continue to be recorded on the Group's balance sheet.
and the SPE is such that the SPE is controlled by the Group.
In determining whether the SPE is controlled by the Group, the Group Conduits considers whether the activities of the SPE are being conducted on its The Group sponsors and administers a number of asset-backed behalf so that it obtains benefits from its operation: whether the Group commercial paper ABCP conduits.
A conduit is a SPE that issues has the decision-making powers to obtain the majority of the benefits of commercial paper and uses the proceeds to purchase or fund a pool of the SPEs activities: whether the Group has rights to obtain the majority assets.
The commercial paper is secured on the assets and is redeemed of the benefits of the SPE: and whether the Group retains the majority of by further commercial paper issuance, repayment of assets or funding the residual or ownership risks related to the SPE or its assets so as to from liquidity facilities.
Commercial paper is typically short-dated, usually obtain benefits from its activities.
As a result of applying these principles, up to three months.
the Group does not consolidate those SPEs where its interests in the SPE do not provide the Group with a majority of the benefits and or Group-sponsored conduits can be divided into multi-seller conduits and residual or ownership risks and therefore the SPE is not controlled by the own-asset conduits.
In determining whether or not to consolidate a Group.
SPEs that are in substance controlled by the Group are conduit the Group applies the same criteria as to SPEs.
The Group accounts for its interests, for example, holdings commitments from the Group to the conduit exceed the nominal amount of securities issued and liquidity commitments, in SPEs it does not of assets funded by the conduit as liquidity commitments are sized to consolidate in accordance with its accounting policy for these items.
cover the funding cost of the related assets.
The Group sponsors and arranges own-asset securitisations, whereby The ways the Group may be involved with conduits and other special the sale of assets or interests in a pool of assets into an SPE is financed purpose entities are described above.
by the issuance of securities to investors.
The pool of assets held by the SPE may be originated by the Group, or in the case of whole loan The Groups involvement in conduits takes a number of forms.
It may: programmes purchased from third parties, and may be of varying credit quality.
Investors in the debt securities issued by the SPE are rewarded x Sponsor an ABCP programme i. e. establish the programme and through credit-linked returns, according to the credit rating of their approve the sellers permitted to participate in the programme and securities.
The majority of securitisations are supported through liquidity the asset pools to be purchased by the programme: facilities, other credit enhancements and derivative hedges extended by financial institutions, some of which offer protection against initial defaults x Administer an ABCP programme: in the pool of assets.
Thereafter, losses are absorbed by investors in the lowest ranking notes in the priority of payments.
Investors in the most x Provide the ABCP conduit with liquidity facilities: senior ranking debt securities are typically shielded from loss, since any subsequent losses may trigger repayment of their initial principal.
x Provide the ABCP conduit with a programme-wide credit enhancement facility: or x Purchase commercial paper from an ABCP conduit.
449 GRA12 5d Financial Statement 440 486 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:43 Page 450 Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 30 Special purpose entities continued Total assets and other aspects relating to the Groups consolidated conduits are set out below.
2 Programme-wide credit enhancement PWCE is an additional programme-wide credit support which would absorb the first loss on transactions where liquidity support is provided by a third party.
3 Maximum exposure to loss quantifies the Groups exposure to its sponsored conduits.
It is determined as the Groups liquidity commitment to its sponsored conduits and additional PWCE which would absorb the first loss on transactions where liquidity support is provided by third parties.
Historically, PWCE has been greater than third party liquidity.
Therefore the maximum exposure to loss is total deal specific liquidity.
4 Liquidity commitments from the Group to the conduit exceed the nominal amount of assets funded by the conduit given that liquidity commitments are sized to cover the accrued funding cost of the related assets.
