ARSFS12 DIVISIONAL REVIEW AW Layout 1 24 03 2013 22:02 Page 7 RBS GROUP 2012 Making RBS safer This team examines data from customer US Retail and Commercial continues to help surveys, feedback and complaints.
This allows make RBS a safer bank.
We have delivered us to identify trends and sources of issues.
We 12 straight quarters of operating profit and are able to understand what has not worked for improving annual returns on equity.
Our capital customers and fix it.
In one example, customer position is among the strongest in our peer feedback led us to cut the wait time between group.
For the first time since 2008, we were when we mail a customers debit card and the able to return capital to RBS Group.
We strengthened our balance sheet.
Our loan We jumped eight spots in 2012 to number 10 in to deposit ratio was 86% at year end and we a survey of bank reputations conducted by have improved our deposit mix, adding core American Banker, an industry publication.
checking accounts while reducing more costly term and time deposits.
Wholesale funding In Commercial Banking, our goal is to help sources are greatly diminished.
business customers grow and prosper.
We continue to improve client service and build Strong risk management remains a top strong relationships.
The strategy is paying off.
We have a clearly defined We were lead arranger in 109 deals, up from credit risk appetite, driven by disciplined 83 in 2011.
We are now within the top 10 underwriting, which has led to consistently arrangers of middle market syndicated debt improving credit risk ratios.
These deals earned us more than US Retail & improved in all portfolios as evidenced by loss $52 million in fees compared with $40 million in rates that are near or below pre-crisis levels.
We are building our treasury management Commercial capabilities as well.
Now, four out of five of our Building a better bank that serves middle market credit clients also use our cash Ellen Alemany customers well management products.
Chief Executive, In Consumer Banking, our commitment to Citizens and Head of Americas customers is clear in the investments we Changing our culture have made.
People lost confidence in banks during the Watch or listen to Ellen Alemany We continued to upgrade our ATM network.
We have taken steps over the www.
com AnnualReview The new Intelligent Deposit Machines past few years to strengthen our culture, which provide customers with more convenience, we believe is the foundation of a good bank.
In 2009, we launched our back to basics Operating profit of 754 million was We enhanced our online and mobile strategy.
It keeps us focused on our customers 217 million 40 per cent higher than in services.
Our iPhone and Android and what they want and need.
Total income increased by 2 per cent.
applications earned a combined 4.25 out of we created a vision, purpose and credo, Higher net interest income was driven by 5 rating from consumers.
We tied for first in a emphasizing customers, colleagues targeted commercial loan growth, deposit ratings analysis of 25 large banks and community.
pricing and lower funding costs.
Nonconducted by financial services consulting firm Javelin Strategy & Research.
In 2012, we built on these foundations, interest income was slightly higher adding five strategic priorities that make it despite a decline in debit card fees as a Our deposit and credit products help clearer where we should focus our efforts.
result of the Durbin Amendment legislation, customers achieve their goals.
Through our These priorities put back to basics in words lower securities fees and lower deposit branches we opened 455,000 new checking that connect with our colleagues.
Expenses were 3 per cent higher, accounts in 2012. largely as a result of one-off items.
Impairments fell sharply, by 235 million We believe we can win and deepen customer to 91 million.
Return on equity was relationships by delivering high levels of higher at 8.3 per cent.
The loan to deposit service.
There is a dedicated team which ratio was broadly stable at 86%.
continues to improve the customer experience.
Performance highlights 2012 2011 Operating profit before impairment losses m 845 863 Impairment losses m 91 326 Operating profit m 754 537 Return on equity % 8.3 6.3 27
