GRA12 5d Financial Statement 440 486 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:43 Page 453 RBS GROUP 2012 32 Memorandum items Contingent liabilities and commitments The amounts shown in the table below are intended only to provide an indication of the volume of business outstanding at 31 December 2012.
Although the Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance of the obligations undertaken by customers, the amounts shown do not, and are not intended to, provide any indication of the Group's expectation of future losses.
Banking commitments and contingent obligations, which have been Commitments entered into on behalf of customers and for which there are Commitments to lend - under a loan commitment the Group agrees to corresponding obligations from customers, are not included in assets and make funds available to a customer in the future.
The Group's maximum exposure to credit loss, in the event of which are usually for a specified term may be unconditionally cancellable non-performance by the other party and where all counterclaims, or may persist, provided all conditions in the loan facility are satisfied or collateral or security proves valueless, is represented by the contractual waived.
Commitments to lend include commercial standby facilities and nominal amount of these instruments included in the table above.
These credit lines, liquidity facilities to commercial paper conduits and unutilised commitments and contingent obligations are subject to the Group's overdraft facilities.
Other commitments - these include documentary credits, which are Contingent liabilities commercial letters of credit providing for payment by the Group to a Guarantees - the Group gives guarantees on behalf of customers.
A named beneficiary against presentation of specified documents, forward financial guarantee represents an irrevocable undertaking that the Group asset purchases, forward deposits placed and undrawn note issuance will meet a customer's obligations to third parties if the customer fails to and revolving underwriting facilities, and other short-term trade related do so.
The maximum amount that the Group could be required to pay transactions.
under a guarantee is its principal amount as disclosed in the table above.
The Group expects most guarantees it provides to expire unused.
Other contingent liabilities - these include standby letters of credit, supporting customer debt issues and contingent liabilities relating to customer trading activities such as those arising from performance and customs bonds, warranties and indemnities.
453 GRA12 5d Financial Statement 440 486 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:43 Page 454 Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 32 Memorandum items continued Contractual obligations for future expenditure not provided for in the accounts The following table shows contractual obligations for future expenditure not provided for in the accounts at the year end.
2012 2011 2010 m m m Operating leases Minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable leases 1 - within 1 year 399 468 497 - after 1 year but within 5 years 1,253 1,453 1,515 - after 5 years 2,286 2,714 2,892 3,938 4,635 4,904 Property, plant and equipment Contracts to buy, enhance or maintain investment properties 2 Contracts to buy assets to be leased under operating leases 2,3 2,607 2,585 Other capital expenditure 37 35 150 37 2,642 2,737 Contracts to purchase goods or services 4 959 1,130 950 4,934 8,407 8,591 Notes: 1 Predominantly property leases.
3 At 31 December 2011, 2,607 million related to the RBS Aviation Capital business which was sold in 2012.
Trustee and other fiduciary activities The FSCS has borrowed from HM Treasury to fund compensation costs In its capacity as trustee or other fiduciary role, the Group may hold or associated with the failure of Bradford & Bingley, Heritable Bank, place assets on behalf of individuals, trusts, companies, pension Kaupthing Singer & Friedlander, Landsbanki Icesave and London schemes and others.
The assets and their income are not included in the Scottish Bank plc.
The interest rate on these borrowings increased from Group's financial statements.
The Group earned fee income of 476 12 month LIBOR plus 30 basis points to 12 month LIBOR plus 100 basis million 2011 - 502 million: 2010 - 629 million from these activities.
The FSCS and HM Treasury have agreed that the period of these loans will reflect the expected timetable for recoveries The Financial Services Compensation Scheme from the estates of Bradford & Bingley and the other failed banks.
The The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS, the UK's FSCS expects to levy the deposit taking sector for the balance of the statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services principal on the non-Bradford & Bingley loans over three scheme years to firms, pays compensation if a firm is unable to meet its obligations.
The repay the principal by March 2016 with a first instalment of 363 million in FSCS funds compensation for customers by raising management the 2013 14 scheme year.
expenses levies and compensation levies on the industry.
In relation to protected deposits, each deposit-taking institution contributes towards The Group has accrued 119 million for its share of estimated FSCS these levies in proportion to their share of total protected deposits on 31 levies for the 2012 13 and 2013 14 scheme years.
December of the year preceding the scheme year which runs from 1 April to 31 March, subject to annual maxima set by the Financial Services Authority.
In addition, the FSCS has the power to raise levies on a firm that has ceased to participate in the scheme and is in the process of ceasing to be authorised for the costs that it would have been liable to pay had the FSCS made a levy in the financial year it ceased to be a participant in the scheme.
454 GRA12 5d Financial Statement 440 486 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:43 Page 455 RBS GROUP 2012 Litigation, investigations and reviews In the Preferred Shares litigation, the consolidated amended complaint The Group and certain Group members are party to legal proceedings, alleged certain false and misleading statements and omissions in public investigations and regulatory matters in the United Kingdom, the United filings and other communications during the period 1 March 2007 to 19 States and other jurisdictions, arising out of their normal business January 2009, and variously asserted claims under Sections 11, 12 and operations.
All such matters are periodically reassessed with the 15 of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended Securities Act.
The assistance of external professional advisers, where appropriate, to putative class is composed of all persons who purchased or otherwise determine the likelihood of the Group incurring a liability.
The Group acquired Group Series Q, R, S, T and or U non-cumulative dollar recognises a provision for a liability in relation to these matters when it is preference shares issued pursuant or traceable to the 8 April 2005 US probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle an Securities and Exchange Commission SEC registration statement.
obligation which has arisen as a result of past events, and for which a Plaintiffs sought unquantified damages on behalf of the putative class.
reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The defendants moved to dismiss the complaint and briefing on the motions was completed in September 2011.
On 4 September 2012, the In many proceedings, it is not possible to determine whether any loss is Court dismissed the Preferred Shares litigation with prejudice.
The probable or to estimate the amount of any loss.
Numerous legal and plaintiffs have appealed the dismissal to the United States Court of factual issues may need to be resolved, including through potentially Appeals for the Second Circuit.
lengthy discovery and determination of important factual matters, and by addressing novel or unsettled legal questions relevant to the proceedings With respect to the ADR claims, a complaint was filed in January 2011 in question, before a liability can be reasonably estimated for any claim.
and a further complaint was filed in February 2011 asserting claims under The Group cannot predict if, how, or when such claims will be resolved or Sections 10 and 20 of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, may be, amended Exchange Act on behalf of all persons who purchased or particularly for claims that are at an early stage in their development or otherwise acquired the Groups American Depositary Receipts ADRs where claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages.
On 18 August 2011, these two ADR cases were consolidated and lead plaintiff and lead counsel While the outcome of the legal proceedings, investigations and regulatory were appointed.
On 1 November 2011, the lead plaintiff filed a matters in which the Group is involved is inherently uncertain, consolidated amended complaint asserting ADR-related claims under management believes that, based on the information available to it, Sections 10 and 20 of the Exchange Act and Sections 11, 12 and 15 of appropriate provisions have been made in respect of legal proceedings, the Securities Act.
The defendants moved to dismiss the complaint in investigations and regulatory matters as at 31 December 2012.
January 2012 and briefing on the motions was completed in April 2012.
The Court heard oral argument on the motions on 19 July 2012.
On 27 The material legal proceedings, investigations and reviews involving the September 2012, the Court dismissed the ADR claims with prejudice.
If any such matters were resolved against The plaintiffs have filed motions for reconsideration and for leave to rethe Group, these matters could, individually or in the aggregate, have a plead their case.
material adverse effect on the Groups consolidated net assets, operating results or cash flows in any particular period.
The Group has also received notification of similar prospective claims in the United Kingdom and elsewhere but no court proceedings have been Litigation commenced in relation to these claims.
In October 2011, the Group Shareholder litigation submitted a detailed response to a letter before action from one RBS and certain of its subsidiaries, together with certain current and purported plaintiff group in the United Kingdom.
former individual officers and directors were named as defendants in purported class actions filed in the United States District Court for the Other securitisation and securities related litigation in the United States Southern District of New York involving holders of RBS preferred shares There continues to be a high level of litigation activity in the financial the Preferred Shares litigation and holders of American Depositary services industry focused on residential mortgage and credit crisis related Receipts the ADR claims.
As a result, the Group has become the subject of claims for damages and other relief regarding mortgages and related securities and expects that it may become the subject of additional such claims in the future.
455 GRA12 5d Financial Statement 440 486 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:43 Page 456 Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 32 Memorandum items continued Certain other institutional investors have threatened to bring claims Group companies have been named as defendants in their various roles against the Group in connection with various mortgage-related offerings.
as issuer, depositor and or underwriter in a number of claims in the The Group cannot predict whether any of these individual investors will United States that relate to the securitisation and securities underwriting pursue these threatened claims or their outcome, but expects that businesses.
These cases include actions by individual purchasers of several may.
If such claims are asserted and were successful, the securities and purported class action suits.
Together, the pending amounts involved may be material.
individual and class action cases involve the issuance of more than US$85 billion of mortgage-backed securities MBS issued primarily from In many of these actions, the Group has or will have contractual claims to 2005 to 2007.
Although the allegations vary by claim, in general, plaintiffs indemnification from the issuers of the securities where a Group in these actions claim that certain disclosures made in connection with company is underwriter and or the underlying mortgage originator the relevant offerings contained materially false or misleading statements where a Group company is issuer.
The amount and extent of any and or omissions regarding the underwriting standards pursuant to which recovery on an indemnification claim, however, is uncertain and subject the mortgage loans underlying the securities were issued.
Group to a number of factors, including the ongoing creditworthiness of the companies have been named as defendants in more than 45 lawsuits indemnifying party.
brought by purchasers of MBS, including the purported class actions identified below.
With respect to the current claims described above, the Group considers that it has substantial and credible legal and factual defences to these Among these MBS lawsuits are six cases filed on 2 September 2011 by claims and will continue to defend them vigorously.
the US Federal Housing Finance Agency FHFA as conservator for the Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Mae and the Federal London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac.
The primary FHFA Certain members of the Group have been named as defendants in a lawsuit is pending in the federal court in Connecticut, and it relates to number of class actions and individual claims filed in the US with respect approximately US$32 billion of MBS for which Group entities acted as to the setting of LIBOR.
The complaints are substantially similar and sponsor depositor and or lead underwriter or co-lead underwriter.
The allege that certain members of the Group and other panel banks defendants motion to dismiss FHFAs amended complaint in this case is individually and collectively violated various federal laws, including the pending, but the court has permitted discovery to commence.
The other US commodities and antitrust laws, and state statutory and common law five FHFA lawsuits against Ally Financial Group, Countrywide Financial by manipulating LIBOR and prices of LIBOR-based derivatives in various Corporation, JP Morgan, Morgan Stanley, and Nomura name RBS markets through various means.
The Group considers that it has Securities Inc. as a defendant by virtue of the fact that it was an substantial and credible legal and factual defences to these and underwriter of some of the securities at issue.
Four of these cases are prospective claims.
It is possible that further claims may be threatened or part of a coordinated proceeding in federal court in New York in which brought in the US or elsewhere relating to the setting of interest rates or discovery is underway.
The fifth case the Countrywide matter is pending interest rate-related trading.
in federal court in California, and is currently the subject of a motion to dismiss.
Details of LIBOR investigations affecting the Group are set out under Investigations and reviews on page 457.
Other MBS lawsuits against Group companies include two cases filed by the National Credit Union Administration Board on behalf of US Central Madoff Federal Credit Union and Western Corporate Federal Credit Union and In December 2010, Irving Picard, as trustee for the bankruptcy estates of eight cases filed by the Federal Home Loan Banks of Boston, Chicago, Bernard L. Madoff and Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC.
Indianapolis, Seattle and San Francisco.
filed a clawback claim against RBS N. V. in New York bankruptcy court.
In the operative complaint, filed in August 2012, the trustee seeks to recover The purported MBS class actions in which Group companies are US$75.8 million in redemptions that RBS N. V. allegedly received from defendants include New Jersey Carpenters Vacation Fund et al.
v. The certain Madoff feeder funds and US$162.1 million that RBS N. V. Royal Bank of Scotland plc et al.
: New Jersey Carpenters Health Fund v. allegedly received from its swap counterparties at a time when RBS N. V. Novastar Mortgage Inc. et al.
: In re IndyMac Mortgage-Backed Securities allegedly knew or should have known of Madoffs possible fraud.
The Litigation: Genesee County Employees Retirement System et al.
v. Trustee alleges that those transfers were preferences or fraudulent Thornburg Mortgage Securities Trust 2006-3, et al.
the Thornburg conveyances under the US bankruptcy code and New York law and he Litigation : and Luther v. Countrywide Financial Corp. et al.
and related asserts the purported right to claw them back for the benefit of Madoffs cases.
On 25 February 2013, the federal district court overseeing the estate.
A further claim, for US$21.8 million, was filed in October 2011.
Thornburg Litigation entered a final order approving a settlement of the The Group considers that it has substantial and credible legal and factual litigation, involving a US$11.25 million payment by the defendants.
defences to these claims and intends to defend itself vigorously.
456 GRA12 5d Financial Statement 440 486 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:43 Page 457 RBS GROUP 2012 Unarranged overdraft charges Political and regulatory scrutiny of the operation of retail banking and RBS Citizens Financial Group, Inc RBS Citizens and its affiliates were consumer credit industries in the United Kingdom, United States and among more than thirty banks named as defendants in US class action elsewhere continues.
The nature and impact of future changes in policies lawsuits alleging that the manner in which defendant banks posted and regulatory action are not predictable and are beyond the Groups transactions to consumer accounts caused customers to incur excessive control.
The complaints against RBS Citizens, which concern the period between 2002 and 2010 and were consolidated into one case, The Group is co-operating fully with the investigations and reviews alleged that this conduct violated its duty of good faith and fair dealing, described below.
was unconscionable and constituted an unfair trade practice and a conversion of customers' funds.
RBS Citizens has agreed to settle this LIBOR and other trading rates matter for US$137.5 million and, as a result, the matter has been stayed.
On 6 February 2013 the Group announced settlements with the Financial The Group has made a one-time payment of the settlement amount into a Services Authority in the United Kingdom, the United States Commodity settlement fund which, upon final approval of the settlement, will be used Futures Trading Commission and the United States Department of to make payments to class members.
A motion for final approval of the Justice DOJ in relation to investigations into submissions, settlement was filed on 10 January 2013.
If the settlement is given final communications and procedures around the setting of the London approval by the United States District Court for the Southern District of Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR.
RBS agreed to pay penalties of 87.5 Florida, consumers who do not opt out of the settlement will be deemed million, US$325 million and US$150 million to these authorities to have released any claims related to the allegations in the lawsuits.
respectively to resolve the investigations.
As part of the agreement with the DOJ, RBS plc entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement in Summary of other disputes, legal proceedings and litigation relation to one count of wire fraud relating to Swiss Franc LIBOR and one In addition to the matters described above, members of the Group are count for an antitrust violation relating to Yen LIBOR.
RBS Securities engaged in other disputes and legal proceedings in the United Kingdom Japan Limited agreed to enter a plea of guilty to one count of wire fraud and a number of overseas jurisdictions, including the United States, relating to Yen LIBOR.
The Group continues to co-operate with involving claims by and against them arising in the ordinary course of investigations by these and various other governmental and regulatory business.
The Group has reviewed these other actual, threatened and authorities, including in the US and Asia, into its submissions, known potential claims and proceedings and, after consulting with its communications and procedures relating to the setting of LIBOR and legal advisers, does not expect that the outcome of any of these other other trading rates.
The Group is also under investigation by competition claims and proceedings will have a material adverse effect on the authorities in a number of jurisdictions, including the European Groups consolidated net assets, operating results or cash flows in any Commission and Canadian Competition Bureau, stemming from the particular period.
actions of certain individuals in the setting of LIBOR and other trading rates, as well as interest rate-related trading.
The Group is also coInvestigations and reviews operating with these investigations.
The Groups businesses and financial condition can be affected by the fiscal or other policies and actions of various governmental and It is not possible to estimate reliably what effect the outcome of these regulatory authorities in the United Kingdom, the European Union, the remaining investigations, any regulatory findings and any related United States and elsewhere.
The Group has engaged, and will continue developments may have on the Group, including the timing and amount to engage, in discussions with relevant governmental and regulatory of further fines, sanctions or settlements, which may be material.
authorities, including in the United Kingdom and the United States, on an ongoing and regular basis regarding operational, systems and control Technology incident evaluations and issues including those related to compliance with On 19 June 2012 the Group was affected by a technology incident, as a applicable anti-bribery, anti-money laundering and sanctions regimes.
It result of which the processing of certain customer accounts and is possible that any matters discussed or identified may result in payments were subject to considerable delay.
The cause of the incident investigatory or other action being taken by governmental and regulatory has been investigated by independent external counsel with the authorities, increased costs being incurred by the Group, remediation of assistance of third party advisors.
The Group has agreed to reimburse systems and controls, public or private censure, restriction of the Groups customers for any loss suffered as a result of the incident.
The Group business activities or fines.
Any of these events or circumstances could provided 175 million in 2012 for this matter.
Additional costs may arise have a material adverse effect on the Group, its business, authorisations once all redress and business disruption items are clear.
and licences, reputation, results of operations or the price of securities issued by it.
The incident, the Group's handling of the incident and the systems and controls surrounding the processes affected, are the subject of regulatory enquiries both from the UK and Ireland and the Group could become a party to litigation.
In particular, the Group could face legal claims from those whose accounts were affected and could itself have claims against third parties.
457 GRA12 5d Financial Statement 440 486 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:43 Page 458 Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 32 Memorandum items continued will be required to appoint an independent third party to either carry out or Interest rate hedging products oversee this work.
The scope and terms of the past business review and In June 2012, following an industry wide review, the FSA announced that the appointment of the independent third party have not yet been the Group and other UK banks had agreed to a redress exercise and past determined.
The Group cannot predict the outcome of this review at this business review in relation to the sale of interest rate hedging products to stage.
some small and medium sized businesses who were classified as retail clients under FSA rules.
On 31 January 2013, the FSA issued a report Multilateral interchange fees outlining the principles to which it wishes the Group and other UK banks In 2007, the EC issued a decision that, while interchange is not illegal per to adhere in conducting the review and redress exercise.
se, MasterCards multilateral interchange fee MIF arrangements for cross border payment card transactions with MasterCard and Maestro The Group will provide fair and reasonable redress to non-sophisticated branded consumer credit and debit cards in the EEA were in breach of customers classified as retail clients, who were mis-sold interest rate competition law.
MasterCard was required to withdraw the relevant crosshedging products.
In relation to non-sophisticated customers classified as border MIF i. e. set these fees to zero by 21 June 2008.
MasterCard retail clients who were sold interest rate products other than interest rate appealed against the decision to the General Court in March 2008, with caps on or after 1 December 2001 up to 29 June 2012, the Group is the Group intervening in the appeal proceedings.
The General Court required to i make redress to customers sold structured collars: and ii heard MasterCards appeal in July 2011 and issued its judgment in May write to customers sold other interest rate hedging products offering a 2012, upholding the ECs original decision.
MasterCard has appealed review of their sale and, if it is appropriate in the individual circumstances, further to the Court of Justice and the Group has intervened in these the Group will propose fair and reasonable redress on a case by case appeal proceedings.
Furthermore, non-sophisticated customers classified as retail clients who have purchased interest rate caps during the period on or In March 2008, the EC also opened a formal inquiry into Visas MIF after 1 December 2001 to 29 June 2012 will be entitled to approach the arrangements for cross border payment card transactions with Visa Group and request a review.
branded debit and consumer credit cards in the EEA.
In April 2009 the EC announced that it had issued Visa with a formal Statement of The redress exercise and the past business review is being scrutinised Objections.
However, in April 2010 Visa announced it had reached an by an independent reviewer, who will review and agree any redress, and agreement with the EC as regards immediate cross border debit card MIF will be overseen by the FSA.
The Group made a total provision of 700 rates only and in December 2010 the commitments were finalised for a million in 2012 in respect of this matter, including 125 million for four year period commencing December 2010 under Article 9 of administration expenses.
As the actual amount that the Group will be Regulation 1 2003.
In July 2012 Visa made a request to re-open the required to pay, will depend on the facts and circumstances of each case, settlement in order to modify the fee.
The EC rejected the request and in there is no certainty as to the eventual costs of redress.
October 2012 Visa filed an appeal to the General Court seeking to have that decision annulled.
The EC is continuing its investigations into Visas Retail banking cross border MIF arrangements for deferred debit and credit transactions.
Since initiating an inquiry into retail banking in the European Union EU On 31 July 2012 the EC announced that it had issued Visa with a in 2005, the European Commission EC continues to keep retail banking supplementary Statement of Objections regarding consumer credit cards under review.
In late 2010 the EC launched an initiative pressing for in the EEA.
greater transparency of bank fees and is currently proposing to legislate for increased harmonisation of terminology across Member States, with In the UK, the Office of Fair Trading OFT has carried out investigations proposals expected in the first quarter of 2013.
The Group cannot predict into Visa and MasterCard domestic credit card interchange rates.
The the outcome of these actions at this stage.
OFT has not made any finding of an infringement of competition law and has not issued a Statement of Objections to any of the parties under FSA mystery shopping review investigation.
In February 2013 the OFT confirmed that while reserving its On 13 February 2013 the FSA announced the results of a mystery right to do so, it does not currently expect to issue Statements of shopping review it undertook into the investment advice offered by banks Objections if at all prior to the handing down of the Court of Justice and building societies to retail clients.
As a result of that review the FSA judgment in the matter of MasterCard's appeal against the ECs 2007 announced that firms involved were cooperative and agreed to take infringement decision.
The Group was one of the firms involved.
The action required includes a review of the training provided to advisers, The outcome of these investigations is not known, but they may have a considering whether changes are necessary to advice processes and material adverse effect on the consumer credit industry in general and, controls for new business, and undertaking a past business review to therefore, on the Groups business in this sector.
identify historic poor advice and where breaches of regulatory requirements are identified, to put this right for customers.
The Group 458 GRA12 5d Financial Statement 440 486 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:43 Page 459 RBS GROUP 2012 Payment Protection Insurance developments, in particular the work of the UK Governments The FSA conducted a broad industry thematic review of Payment Independent Commission on Banking ICB.
Protection Insurance PPI sales practices and in September 2008, the FSA announced that it intended to escalate its level of regulatory Additionally, in May 2010, the OFT announced its review of barriers to intervention.
Substantial numbers of customer complaints alleging the entry.
The review concerned retail banking and banking for small and mis-selling of PPI policies have been made to banks and to the Financial medium size enterprises SMEs up to 25 million turnover and looked Ombudsman Service FOS and many of these are being upheld by the at products which require a banking licence to sell mortgages, loan FOS against the banks.
products and, where appropriate, other products such as insurance or credit cards where cross-selling may facilitate entry or expansion.
The The FSA published a final policy statement in August 2010 imposing OFT published its report in November 2010.
It advised that it expected its significant changes with respect to the handling of complaints about the review to be relevant to the ICB, the FSA, HM Treasury and the mis-selling of PPI.
In October 2010, the British Bankers Association Department for Business, Innovation and Skills and to the devolved BBA filed an application for judicial review of the FSAs policy statement governments in the UK.
The OFT did not indicate whether it would and of related guidance issued by the FOS.
In April 2011 the High Court undertake any further work.
The report maintained that barriers to entry issued judgment in favour of the FSA and the FOS and in May 2011 the remain, in particular regarding switching, branch networks and brands.
At BBA announced that it would not appeal that judgment.
The Group then this stage, it is not possible to estimate the effect of the OFTs report and reached agreement with the FSA on a process for implementation of its recommendations regarding barriers to entry upon the Group.
policy statement and for the future handling of PPI complaints.
Implementation of the agreed processes is currently under way.
On 13 July 2012, the OFT launched its planned full review of the PCA Following agreement with the FSA in 2011, the Group increased its market.
The review was intended to consider whether the initiatives provision of 215 million at 31 December 2010 by 850 million in respect agreed by the OFT with banks to date have been successful and whether of PPI.
In 2012 a further provision of 1,110 million was recorded.
This the market should be referred to the Competition Commission CC for a strengthened the cumulative provision for PPI to 2.2 billion, from which fuller market investigation.
1.3 billion in redress had been paid by 31 December 2012.
The OFTs PCA report was published on 25 January 2013.
The OFT Personal current accounts acknowledged some specific improvements in the market since its last In July 2008 the OFT published a market study report into Personal review but concluded that further changes are required to tackle ongoing Current Accounts PCAs raising concerns as regards the way the market concerns, including a lack of switching, the ability of consumers to was functioning.
In October 2009 the OFT summarised initiatives agreed compare products and the complexity of overdraft charges.
However, the with industry to address these concerns.
In December 2009, the OFT OFT recognises that a number of major developments are expected over published a further report in which it stated that it continued to have the coming months including divestment of branches and improvements significant concerns about the operation of the PCA market in the UK, in in account switching and assistance to customers to compare products particular in relation to unarranged overdrafts, and that it believed that and services.
Therefore the OFT has provisionally decided not to refer fundamental changes were required for the market to work in the best the market to the CC at this stage but expects to return to the question of interests of bank customers.
In March 2010, the OFT announced that it a referral to the CC in 2015, or before.
The OFT also announced that it had secured agreement from the banks on four industry-wide initiatives will be carrying out behavioural economic research on the way designed to address its concerns, namely minimum standards on the consumers make decisions and engage with retail banking service, and operation of opt-outs from unarranged overdrafts, new working groups on will study the operation of payment systems as well as the SME banking information sharing with customers, best practice for PCA customers in market.
financial difficulties and incurring charges, and PCA providers to publish their policies on dealing with PCA customers in financial difficulties.
The At this stage it is not possible to estimate the effect of these OFT reviews OFT also announced that it would conduct six-monthly reviews and would which may be material.
also review the market again fully in 2012 and undertake a brief analysis on barriers to entry.
Private motor insurance In December 2011, the OFT launched a market study into private motor The first six-monthly review was completed in September 2010.
The OFT insurance, with a focus on the provision of third party vehicle repairs and noted progress in switching, transparency and unarranged overdrafts for credit hire replacement vehicles to claimants.
The OFT issued its report the period March to September 2010 and highlighted further changes it in May 2012 and advised that it believed there were features of the wanted to see in the market.
In March 2011, the OFT published the next market that potentially restrict, distort or prevent competition in the market update report in relation to PCAs.
This noted further progress in meriting a referral to the CC.
On 28 September 2012 the OFT referred improving consumer control over the use of unarranged overdrafts.
In the private motor insurance market to the CC for a market investigation.
particular, the Lending Standards Board had led on producing standards The CC has until 27 September 2014 to publish its findings.
At this stage, and guidance to be included in a revised Lending Code.
The OFT stated it is not possible to estimate the effect the market investigation may have it would continue to monitor the market and would consider the need for, on Direct Line Insurance Group plc.
and appropriate timing of, further update reports in light of other 459 GRA12 5d Financial Statement 440 486 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:43 Page 460 Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 32 Memorandum items continued In issuing RMBS, M&IB N. A. generally assigned certain representations Securitisation and collateralised debt obligation business and warranties regarding the characteristics of the underlying loans made In the United States, the Group is involved in reviews, investigations and by the originator of the residential mortgages: however, in some proceedings both formal and informal by federal and state governmental circumstances, M&IB N. A. made such representations and warranties law enforcement and other agencies and self-regulatory organisations itself.
Where M&IB N. A. has given those or other representations and relating to, among other things, mortgage-backed securities, warranties whether relating to underlying loans or otherwise, M&IB N. A. collateralised debt obligations CDOs, and synthetic products.
In may be contractually required to repurchase such loans or indemnify connection with these inquiries, Group companies have received certain parties against losses for certain breaches of such requests for information and subpoenas seeking information about, representations and warranties.
In certain instances where it is required among other things, the structuring of CDOs, financing to loan to repurchase loans or related securities, M&IB N. A. may be able to originators, purchase of whole loans, sponsorship and underwriting of assert claims against third parties who provided representations or securitisations, due diligence, representations and warranties, warranties to M&IB N. A. when selling loans to it: although the ability to communications with ratings agencies, disclosure to investors, document recover against such parties is uncertain.
Between the start of 2009 and deficiencies, and repurchase requests.
the end of December 2012, M&IB N. A. received approximately US$606 million in repurchase demands in respect of loans made primarily from In September and October 2010, the SEC requested voluntary production 2005 to 2008 and related securities sold where obligations in respect of of information concerning residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS contractual representations or warranties were undertaken by M&IB N. A.. underwritten by subsidiaries of RBS during the period from September However, repurchase demands presented to M&IB N. A. are subject to 2006 to July 2007 inclusive.
In November 2010, the SEC commenced a challenge and rebuttal by M&IB N. A.. formal investigation.
The investigation appears to be focused on certain specific RMBS securitisations underwritten in 2007 and is continuing.
RBS Citizens has not been an issuer or underwriter of non-agency RMBS.
However, RBS Citizens is an originator and servicer of residential Also in October 2010, the SEC commenced an inquiry into document mortgages, and it routinely sells such mortgage loans in the secondary deficiencies and repurchase requests with respect to certain market and to GSEs.
In the context of such sales, RBS Citizens makes securitisations, and in January 2011, this was converted to a formal certain representations and warranties regarding the characteristics of investigation.
Among other matters, the investigation seeks information the underlying loans and, as a result, may be contractually required to related to document deficiencies and remedial measures taken with repurchase such loans or indemnify certain parties against losses for respect to such deficiencies.
The investigation also seeks information certain breaches of the representations and warranties concerning the related to early payment defaults and loan repurchase requests.
Between the start of 2009 and the end of 2012, RBS Citizens received US$141.9 million in repurchase demands in respect of In 2007, the New York State Attorney General issued subpoenas to a loans originated primarily since 2003.
However, repurchase demands wide array of participants in the securitisation and securities industry, presented to RBS Citizens are subject to challenge and rebuttal by RBS focusing on the information underwriters obtained from the independent Citizens.
firms hired to perform due diligence on mortgages.
The Group completed its production of documents requested by the New York State Attorney Although there has been disruption in the ability of certain financial General in 2008, principally producing documents related to loans that institutions operating in the United States to complete foreclosure were pooled into one securitisation transaction.
In May 2011, at the New proceedings in respect of US mortgage loans in a timely manner or at York State Attorney General's request, representatives of the Group all over the last year including as a result of interventions by certain attended an informal meeting to provide additional information about the states and local governments, to date, RBS Citizens has not been Group's mortgage securitisation business.
The investigation is ongoing materially impacted by such disruptions and the Group has not ceased and the Group continues to provide requested information.
US mortgages - loan repurchase matters The volume of repurchase demands is increasing and is expected to The Groups Markets & International Banking N. A. or M&IB N. A. business continue to increase, and the Group cannot currently estimate what the formerly Global Banking & Markets N. A. has been a purchaser of nonultimate exposure of M&IB N. A. or RBS Citizens may be.
Furthermore, agency US residential mortgages in the secondary market, and an issuer the Group is unable to estimate the extent to which the matters described and underwriter of non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities above will impact it, and future developments may have an adverse RMBS.
M&IB N. A. did not originate or service any US residential impact on the Groups net assets, operating results or cash flows in any mortgages and it was not a significant seller of mortgage loans to particular period.
government sponsored enterprises GSEs e. g. the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Association.
460 GRA12 5d Financial Statement 440 486 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:43 Page 461 RBS GROUP 2012 Other investigations with the Group's efforts to implement these plans and programmes, it On 27 July 2011, the Group agreed with the Board of Governors of the has, among other things, made investments in technology, hired and Federal Reserve System, the New York State Banking Department, the trained additional personnel, and revised compliance, risk management, Connecticut Department of Banking, and the Illinois Department of and other policies and procedures for the Group's U. S. operations.
The Financial and Professional Regulation to enter into a consent Cease and Group continues to test the effectiveness of the remediation efforts Desist Order the Order to address deficiencies related to governance, undertaken by the Group to ensure they are sustainable and meet risk management and compliance systems and controls in RBS plc and regulators' expectations.
Furthermore, the Group continues to work RBS N. V. branches.
In the Order, the Group agreed to create the closely with the regulators in its efforts to fulfil its obligations under the following written plans or programmes: Order, which will remain in effect until terminated by the regulators.
x a plan to strengthen board and senior management oversight of the The Groups operations include businesses outside the United States that corporate governance, management, risk management, and are responsible for processing US dollar payments.
The Group has been operations of the Groups U. S. operations on an enterprise-wide and conducting a review of its policies, procedures and practices in respect of business line basis, such payments, has voluntarily made disclosures to US and UK authorities with respect to its historical compliance with US economic x an enterprise-wide risk management programme for the Groups sanctions regulations, and is continuing to co-operate with related U. S. operations, investigations by government authorities.
The Group has also, over time, enhanced its relevant systems and controls.
Further, the Group has x a plan to oversee compliance by the Groups U. S. operations with all initiated disciplinary proceedings against a number of its employees as a applicable U. S. laws, rules, regulations, and supervisory guidance, result of its investigation into employee conduct relating to this matter.
Although the Group cannot currently determine the outcome of its x a Bank Secrecy Act anti-money laundering compliance programme discussions with the relevant authorities, the investigation costs, for the RBS plc and RBS N. V. branches in the U. S. the U. S. remediation required or liability incurred could have a material adverse Branches on a consolidated basis, effect on the Groups net assets, operating results or cash flows in any particular period.
x a plan to improve the U. S. Branches compliance with all applicable provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act and its rules and regulations as The Group may become subject to formal and informal supervisory well as the requirements of Regulation K of the Federal Reserve, actions and may be required by its US banking supervisors to take further actions and implement additional remedial measures with respect to x a customer due diligence programme designed to reasonably these and additional matters.
The Group's activities in the United States ensure the identification and timely, accurate, and complete may be subject to significant limitations and or conditions.
reporting by the U. S. Branches of all known or suspected violations of law or suspicious transactions to law enforcement and In March 2008, the Group was advised by the SEC that it had supervisory authorities, as required by applicable suspicious activity commenced a non-public, formal investigation relating to the Groups reporting laws and regulations, and United States sub-prime securities exposures and United States residential mortgage exposures.
In September 2012, SEC staff x a plan designed to enhance the U. S. Branches compliance with communicated that it had completed this investigation as to RBS and that OFAC requirements.
it did not, as of the date of that communication and based upon the information then in its possession, intend to recommend any enforcement The Order which is publicly available identified specific items to be action against RBS.
In December 2010, the SEC contacted the Group addressed, considered, and included in each proposed plan or and indicated that it would also examine valuations of various RBS N. V. programme.
The Group also agreed in the Order to adopt and implement structured products, including CDOs.
In March 2012, the SEC the plans and programmes after approval by the regulators, to fully communicated to the Group that it had completed this investigation and comply with the plans and programmes thereafter, and to submit to the that it did not, as of the date of that communication and based upon the regulators periodic written progress reports regarding compliance with the information then in its possession, intend to recommend any enforcement Order.
The Group has created, submitted, and adopted plans and or action against RBS.
programmes to address each of the areas identified above.
