GRA12 7 Additional Info 516 539 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:52 Page 526 Shareholder information continued Taxation for US Holders continued licensing and activities.
The company's possible status as a PFIC is A transfer of PROs by a US Holder will not give rise to a charge to UK tax determined annually, however, and may be subject to change if the on accrued but unpaid interest payments, unless the US Holder is an company fails to qualify under this special rule for any year in which a US individual or other non-corporate taxpayer and at any time in the relevant Holder holds ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs.
year of assessment or accounting period carries on a trade, profession or If the company were to be treated as a PFIC for any year during which a vocation in the UK through a branch or agency to which the PROs are US Holder holds ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or attributable.
PROs, US Holders would generally be subject to adverse US federal income tax consequences.
Holders should consult their own tax advisers Annual tax charges as to the potential application of the PFIC rules to the ownership and Corporate US Holders of PROs may be subject to annual UK tax charges disposition of the company's ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference or tax relief by reference to fluctuations in exchange rates and in ADSs or PROs.
respect of profits, gains and losses arising from the PROs, but only if such corporate US Holders carry on a trade in the UK through a UK Information reporting and backup withholding permanent establishment to which the PROs are attributable.
Payments on, and proceeds from the sale of, ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs that are made within the United States Inheritance tax or through certain U. S-related financial intermediaries may be subject to In relation to PROs held through Depository Trust Company or any other information reporting and backup withholding unless i the US Holder is clearing system, the UK inheritance tax position is not free from doubt in an exempt recipient or ii in the case of backup withholding, the US respect of a lifetime transfer, or death of, a US Holder who is not Holder provides a correct taxpayer identification number and certifies that domiciled nor deemed to be domiciled in the UK for inheritance tax it is not subject to backup withholding.
The amount of any backup purposes: HM Revenue & Customs is known to consider that the situs of withholding from a payment to a US Holder will be allowed as a credit securities held in this manner is not necessarily determined by the place against the US Holders U. S. federal income tax liability and may entitle it where the securities are registered.
In appropriate circumstances, there to a refund, provided that the required information is timely furnished to may be a charge to UK inheritance tax as a result of a lifetime transfer at the Internal Revenue Service.
less than market value by, or on the death of, such US Holder.
Inheritance tax is not generally chargeable on gifts to individuals made Foreign financial assets reporting more than seven years before the death of the donor.
However, Certain US Holders who are individuals and under proposed regulations, exemption from, or a reduction of, any such UK tax liability may be certain entities may be required to report information relating to the available under the Estate Tax Treaty see below.
US Holders should companys securities, subject to certain exceptions including an consult their professional advisers in relation to such potential liability.
exception for securities held in accounts maintained by US financial PROs beneficially owned by an individual, whose domicile is determined institutions.
US Holders are urged to consult their tax advisers regarding to be the United States for the purposes of the Estate Tax Treaty and the application of these rules in the US Holders particular circumstances.
who is not a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax Exchange controls on the individual's death or on a lifetime transfer of the PRO, except in The company has been advised that there are currently no UK laws, certain cases where the PRO i is comprised in a settlement unless, at decrees or regulations which would prevent the import or export of the time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the United States capital, including the availability of cash or cash equivalents for use by and was not a national of the UK : ii is part of the business property of a the Group, or the remittance of dividends, interest or other payments to UK permanent establishment of an enterprise: or iii pertains to a UK non-UK resident holders of the company's securities.
fixed base of an individual used for the performance of independent personal services.
The Estate Tax Treaty generally provides a credit There are no restrictions under the Articles of Association of the company against US federal estate or gift tax liability for the amount of any tax paid or under UK law, as currently in effect, which limit the right of non-UK in the UK in a case where the PRO is subject to both UK inheritance tax resident owners to hold or, when entitled to vote, freely to vote the and US federal estate or gift tax.
Stamp duty and SDRT Memorandum and Articles of Association No stamp duty, SDRT or similar tax is imposed in the UK on the issue, The company's Memorandum and Articles of Association as in effect at transfer or redemption of the PROs.
the date of this annual report are registered with the Registrar of Passive Foreign Investment Company PFIC considerations Companies of Scotland.
The Articles of Association were last amended In general, a foreign corporation will be a PFIC for any taxable year in on 30 May 2012.
Copies can be obtained from Companies House in the which, after taking into account the income and assets of the corporation UK or from the Groups website www.
and certain subsidiaries pursuant to applicable 'look-through rules', either Incorporation and registration i at least 75% of its gross income is 'passive income' or ii at least 50% The company was incorporated and registered in Scotland under the of the average quarterly value of its assets is attributable to assets which Companies Act 1948 as a limited company on 25 March 1968 under the produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income.
name National and Commercial Banking Group Limited, and changed its The company does not believe that it was a PFIC for its 2012 taxable name to The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Limited on 3 September year.
Although interest income is generally passive income, a special rule 1979.
On 10 March 1982 it was re-registered under the Companies Acts allows banks to treat their banking business income as non-passive.
To 1948 to 1980 as a public company with limited liability.
The company is qualify for this rule, a bank must satisfy certain requirements regarding its registered under Company No.
