FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RSA INSURANCE GROUP PLC We have audited the consolidated financial statements of RSA Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for comprise the consolidated Income Statement, the consolidated the financial year for which the group financial statements are Statement of Comprehensive Income, the consolidated Statement prepared is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
of Changes in Equity, the consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the consolidated Statement of Cashflows and the related notes 1 Matters on which we are required to report by exception to 34.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied We have nothing to report in respect of the following: in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in r certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. by law are not made: or Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the r we have not received all the information and explanations companys members those matters we are required to state to them we require for our audit.
in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: other than the company and the companys members as a body, for r the directors statement, contained within the Directors Report, our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
in relation to going concern: and r the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group r certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and on directors remuneration.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable Other matter law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those We have reported separately on the parent company financial standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards statements of RSA Insurance Group plc for the year ended Ethical Standards for Auditors.
31 December 2012 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable David Barnes Senior statutory auditor assurance that the financial statements are free from material for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to London, UK the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and 19 February 2013 adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: r give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: r have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and r have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 75
