CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION as at 31 December 2012 2012 2011 Notes m m Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 8 1,489 1,359 Property and equipment 9 272 275 Investment property 10 340 362 Investments in associates 11 40 29 Financial assets 12 12,660 12,838 Total investments 13,040 13,229 Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 13 1,949 2,073 Insurance and reinsurance debtors 14 3,592 3,328 Current tax assets 23 76 33 Deferred tax assets 23 285 249 Other debtors and other assets 15 753 777 1,114 1,059 Cash and cash equivalents 16 1,329 1,258 22,785 22,581 Assets held for sale 34 17 Total assets 22,785 22,598 Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 3,750 3,801 Non controlling interests 129 114 Total equity 3,879 3,915 Liabilities Loan capital 19 1,311 1,313 Insurance contract liabilities 20 14,854 14,766 Insurance and reinsurance liabilities 21 558 602 Borrowings 22 296 298 Current tax liabilities 23 58 104 Deferred tax liabilities 23 139 102 Provisions 24 487 389 Other liabilities 25 1,203 1,109 Provisions and other liabilities 1,887 1,704 Total liabilities 18,906 18,683 Total equity and liabilities 22,785 22,598 The attached notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements were approved on 19 February 2013 by the Board of Directors and are signed on its behalf by: Richard Houghton Group Chief Financial Officer 78 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASHFLOWS for the year ended 31 December 2012 2012 2011 Notes m m Cashflows from operations 31 165 104 Tax paid 201 227 Investment income 526 597 Interest paid 115 116 Dividends received from associates 1 1 Pension deficit funding 73 56 Net cashflows from operating activities 303 303 Proceeds from sales or maturities of: Financial assets 4,533 4,432 Investment property 11 Property and equipment 22 14 Investments in subsidiaries net of cash disposed of 6 Purchase of: Financial assets 4,198 3,983 Investment property 2 3 Property and equipment 35 37 Intangible assets 146 159 Investments in subsidiaries net of cash acquired 30 97 299 Investments in associates 9 Net cashflows from investing activities 68 18 Proceeds from issue of share capital 12 4 Sale of shares to non controlling interests 6 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 277 294 Dividends paid to preference shareholders 9 9 Dividends paid to non controlling interests 2 18 Net movement in other borrowings 1 1 Net cashflows from financing activities 271 316 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 100 31 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 1,258 1,314 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 29 25 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 16 1,329 1,258 The attached notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 79 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation Consolidation of the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to Consolidated financial statements govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance from their activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of by the European Union EU.
The consolidated financial statements potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another the revaluation of available for sale financial assets, investment entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which property, Group occupied property and financial assets and financial control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from liabilities held for trading which include all derivative contracts.
the date that control ceases.
There are no new IFRS or interpretations of IFRS that have become The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the effective during 2012 and that have a significant impact on the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
There are no other significant changes to Group accounting policies during 2012.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed Except where otherwise stated, all figures included in the at the date of exchange.
consolidated financial statements are presented in millions of Pounds Sterling, being the currency in the primary economic environment For business combinations completed on or after 1 January 2010 of the Company, shown as m, rounded to the nearest million.
the cost of acquisition includes the fair value of deferred and contingent consideration at the acquisition date and subsequent Selection of accounting policies changes in the carrying value of the consideration are recognised The Group exercises judgement in selecting each Group accounting in the income statement.
For business combinations completed policy.
The accounting policies of the Group are selected by the prior to 31 December 2009, the cost also includes costs directly Directors to present financial statements that they consider provide attributable to the acquisition and the value of contingent the most relevant information.
For certain accounting policies there consideration on settlement.
are different accounting treatments that could be adopted, each of which would be in compliance with IFRS and would have a significant Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities influence upon the basis on which the financial statements are assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair presented.
The bases of selection of the accounting policies for the values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non accounting for financial assets and for the recognition of actuarial controlling interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the gains and losses related to pension obligations are set out below: fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair r The Group designates financial assets that are held as investments value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is on the basis on which the investment return is managed and the recognised directly in the income statement.
Where the investment return is managed on the basis of the periodic cashflows arising from the Changes in the ownership interests of a subsidiary between investment, a financial asset is designated as an available for sale shareholders of the Group and shareholders holding a non financial asset with unrealised gains recognised in the statement controlling interest are accounted for as transactions between of comprehensive income.
Where the investment return is equity holders of the Group.
Any difference between the fair value managed on the basis of the total return on the investment of the consideration given by the transferee and the carrying value including unrealised investment gains, the financial asset is of the ownership interest transferred is recognised directly in equity.
designated as at fair value through the income statement r The Group accounting policy is to recognise actuarial gains and Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on losses arising from the recognition and funding of the Groups transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised pension obligations in the statement of comprehensive income losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence during the period in which they arise.
This policy has been of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of adopted as it provides the most relevant basis of recognition subsidiaries are changed where necessary to ensure consistency of such gains and losses.
with the policies adopted by the Group.
80 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Associates Goodwill and other intangible assets Associates are entities over which the Group has significant Goodwill, being the difference between the cost of a business influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding acquisition and the Groups interest in the net fair value of the of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting initially capitalised in the statement of financial position at cost and and are initially recognised at cost.
is subsequently recognised at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of the acquisition is the amount of cash paid and The Groups shares of its associates post acquisition profits or the fair value of other purchase consideration.
For business losses are recognised in the income statement and its share of post combinations completed prior to 31 December 2009, the cost acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in the statement of also includes costs directly attributable to the acquisition and the comprehensive income.
The cumulative post acquisition movements value of contingent consideration on settlement.
Goodwill is are adjusted in the carrying amount of the investment.
When the allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest testing.
Goodwill is subject to an impairment review at least in the associate, including any unsecured receivables, the Group annually.
An impairment review is also carried out whenever there does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations is an indication that goodwill or other intangible assets are impaired.
or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Where the carrying amount is more than the recoverable amount, an impairment is recognised in the income statement.
Adjustments are made, where necessary, to the accounting policies of associates to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by The increased carrying amount of an asset other than goodwill the Group.
attributable to a reversal of an impairment loss does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined net of Translation of foreign currencies amortisation or depreciation had no impairment loss been Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups recognised for the asset in prior years.
An impairment loss entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
When calculating the goodwill arising on an acquisition, provisions The results and financial position of those Group entities whose for losses and loss adjustment expenses are discounted to present functional currency is not Sterling are translated into Sterling value.
Immediately following the acquisition, the provisions for losses as follows: and loss adjustment expenses are valued at full nominal value.
This increase in liabilities is matched by the recognition of an intangible r Assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position asset arising from acquired provisions for losses and loss adjustment presented are translated at closing exchange rates at the end expenses, representing the present value of future investment of the period income implicit in the claims discount.
The intangible asset is r Income and expenses for each income statement are translated amortised over the expected run off period and is tested within at average exchange rates during each period the liability adequacy test of insurance contract liabilities where r All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a component the balances of intangible assets associated with insurance contracts of equity.
are deducted from the carrying amount of the insurance contract liabilities.
The run off period is normally between five and 11 years.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and Expenditure that increases the future economic benefits arising other currency instruments designated as hedges of such from computer software in excess of its standard of performance investments, are taken to equity.
When a foreign entity is sold, assessed immediately before the expenditure was made is the cumulative exchange differences relating to that foreign entity recognised as an intangible asset.
are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Other intangible assets comprise renewal rights, customer lists, brands and other acquired identifiable non monetary assets Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is treated as an without physical form.
asset of the foreign entity and the carrying value is translated at the closing exchange rate.
Computer software and other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation on computer software Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional and other intangible assets is calculated using the straight line currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the method to allocate the cost over their estimated useful lives, which transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the is normally estimated to be between three and 12 years.
settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 81 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Property and equipment Investment property is recorded at fair value, measured by Property and equipment comprise Group occupied land and independent professionally qualified valuers who hold a recognised buildings, fixtures, fittings and equipment including computer and relevant professional qualification and have recent experience in hardware and motor vehicles.
These assets are depreciated over the location and category of the investment property being valued.
their estimated useful life after taking into account residual values.
Valuations are carried out on an annual basis or more frequently.
For interim periods internal valuations are made by reference to Group occupied property is stated at fair value, less subsequent current market conditions.
Unrealised gains and unrealised losses depreciation for buildings.
All other assets are stated at depreciated or changes thereof are recognised in net investment return.
Fair value movements are recorded in equity.
Financial assets Fair value is based on current prices in an active market for similar A financial asset is initially recognised on the date the Group property in the same location and condition and subject to similar commits to purchase the asset at fair value plus, in the case of all contractual terms of ownership.
Valuations are performed by financial assets not classified as at fair value through the income external professionally qualified valuation surveyors on at least statement, transaction costs that are directly attributable to its an annual basis, with reference to current market conditions.
A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cashflows from the investment have expired or have been All other classes are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
transferred and when the Group has substantially transferred the Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset only when it is probable that future economic benefits On initial recognition, the financial assets may be categorised associated to the item will flow to the Group and the cost can into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through be measured reliably.
the income statement, loans and receivables, held to maturity financial assets and available for sale financial assets.
The Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on all other items is calculated classification depends on the purpose for which the investments on the straight line method to write down the cost of such assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its to their residual value over their estimated useful lives as follows: investments at initial recognition.
Group occupied buildings normally 30 years The Group designates investments in equity and debt securities in Fixtures and fittings 10 years accordance with its investment strategy on the basis on which the Motor vehicles 4 years investment return is managed and the performance is evaluated Equipment 3-5 years internally.
Where the investment return is managed on the basis of the periodic cashflows arising from the investment, a financial The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and asset is designated as an available for sale financial asset.
Where the adjusted if appropriate.
investment return is managed on the basis of the total return on the investment including unrealised investment gains, the financial asset An impairment review is carried out whenever there is an is designated as at fair value through the income statement.
Other indication that the assets are impaired.
An assets carrying amount investments comprising loans, reinsurance deposits and other is written down to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying deposits are classified as loans and receivables.
amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Financial assets arising from non investment activities are not Increases in the carrying amount arising on the revaluation of classified on initial recognition as available for sale assets and Group occupied property are credited to revaluation reserves in are therefore categorised as loans and receivables.
Decreases that offset the previous increases of the same asset are charged against revaluation surplus directly in equity: Where the cumulative changes recognised in equity represent an other decreases are charged to the income statement.
Each year unrealised loss the individual asset or group of assets is reviewed the difference between depreciation based on the fair value of to test whether an indication of impairment exists.
the asset charged to the income statement and depreciation based on the assets original cost is transferred from revaluation surplus For securities whose fair values are readily determined and where to retained earnings.
there is objective evidence that such an asset is impaired, including for equity investments a significant or prolonged decline in the fair Investment property value below cost, the unrealised loss charged to equity is reclassified Investment property, comprising freehold and leasehold land and to the income statement.
buildings, is held for long-term rental yields and is not occupied by the Group.
If the fair value of a previously impaired debt security increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, the impairment loss is reversed 82 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and the reversal recognised in the income statement.
Impairment Estimation of the fair value of financial assets and liabilities losses on equity investments are not reversed.
The methods and assumptions used by the Group in estimating the fair value of financial assets and liabilities are: For other loans and receivables, where there is evidence that the contracted cashflows will not be received in full, an impairment r For fixed maturity securities, fair values are generally based upon charge is recognised in the income statement to reduce the carrying quoted market prices.
Where market prices are not readily value of the financial asset to its recoverable amount.
available, fair values are estimated using either values obtained from quoted market prices of comparable securities or estimated Investment income is recognised in the income statement.
Dividends by discounting expected future cashflows using a current market on equity investments are recognised on the date at which the rate applicable to the yield, credit quality and maturity of the investment is priced ex dividend.
Interest income is recognised investment using the effective interest method.
Unrealised gains and losses r For equity securities fair values are based upon quoted market prices on available for sale investments are recognised directly in equity, r If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group except for impairment losses and foreign exchange gains and losses establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include on monetary items which are recognised in the income statement.
the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other On derecognition of an investment classified as available for sale, the instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cashflow cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised analysis and option pricing models in the income statement.
r For mortgage loans on real estate and collateral loans, fair values are estimated using discounted cashflow calculations based upon Derivative financial instruments prevailing market rates Derivatives are recognised in the statement of financial position r For cash, loans and receivables, commercial paper, other assets, on a trade date basis and are carried at fair value.
Derivatives are liabilities and accruals, carrying amounts approximate to fair values carried as assets when fair value is positive and as liabilities when r For notes, bonds, loans payable and loan capital, fair values are fair value is negative.
The method of recognising the resulting gain determined by reference to quoted market prices or estimated or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a using discounted cashflow calculations based upon prevailing hedging instrument and the nature of the item being hedged.
Loan capital is carried at amortised cost and, when Where a derivative is not designated as a hedging instrument, different, fair value is shown in the relevant note.
For borrowings changes in its fair value are recognised in the income statement.
that carry a variable rate of interest other than loan capital, carrying values approximate to fair values Hedging r For derivatives, fair values are generally based upon quoted Transactions are classified as hedging transactions when the market prices.
following conditions for hedge accounting are met: For disclosure purposes, fair value measurements are classified as r There is a formal designation and documentation of the hedging Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which fair value is observable: relationship and the Groups risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge r Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted r The hedge is expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities changes in fair value or cashflows attributable to the hedged risk, r Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs consistent with the originally documented risk management other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are strategy for that particular hedging relationship observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices r The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured or indirectly i. e. derived from prices r For cashflow hedges, a forecast transaction that is the subject of r Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation the hedge must be highly probable and must present an exposure techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not to variations in cashflows that could ultimately affect profit or loss based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
r The hedge is assessed on an ongoing basis and determined to have been highly effective.
Insurance contracts Product classification Where a foreign exchange derivative is designated as a hedging Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant instrument against the net investment in foreign entities, the insurance risk at the inception of the contract.
Insurance risk is effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: the gain or transferred when the Group agrees to compensate a policyholder if loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in a specified uncertain future event other than a change in a financial the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are variable adversely affects the policyholder.
Any contracts not meeting included in the income statement when the underlying hedged item the definition of an insurance contract under IFRS are classified as is derecognised.
investment contracts or derivative contracts, as appropriate.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 83 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Recognition of income that is expected to be earned from the assets backing the provisions Premiums written are accounted for in the period in which the for unearned premiums net of deferred acquisition costs.
The contract is entered into and include estimates where the amounts unexpired risk provision is assessed in aggregate for business classes are not determined at the end of the reporting period.
Premiums which, in the opinion of the Directors, are managed together.
written exclude taxes and duties levied on premiums and directly related expenses, e. g. commissions.
Premiums are earned as Reinsurance ceded revenue over the period of the contract and are calculated Premiums payable in respect of reinsurance ceded are recognised principally on a daily pro rata basis.
in the period in which the reinsurance contract is entered into and include estimates where the amounts are not determined at the Insurance contract liabilities end of the reporting period.
Premiums are expensed over the The provision for unearned premium represents the portion of period of the reinsurance contract, calculated principally on a daily the premiums written relating to periods of insurance coverage pro rata basis.
subsequent to the end of the reporting period after the deduction of related acquisition costs.
A reinsurance asset reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities is recognised to reflect the amount estimated to be recoverable Acquisition costs comprise the direct and indirect costs of obtaining under the reinsurance contracts in respect of the provisions for and processing new insurance business.
These costs are recognised losses and loss adjustment expenses reported under insurance as deferred acquisition costs and are deducted from the provision contract liabilities.
The amount recoverable from reinsurers is for unearned premiums.
Deferred acquisition costs are amortised initially valued on the same basis as the underlying provisions for on the same basis as the related premiums are earned.
losses and loss adjustment expenses.
The amount recoverable is reduced when there is an event arising after the initial recognition The provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses, whether that provides objective evidence that the Group may not receive all reported or not, comprise the estimated cost of claims incurred amounts due under the reinsurance contract and the event has a but not settled at the end of the reporting period.
It includes reliably measurable impact on the expected amount that will be related expenses and a deduction for the expected value of salvage recovered from the reinsurer.
The provision is determined using the best information available of claims settlement patterns, forecast inflation The reinsurers share of each unexpired risk provision is recognised and settlement of claims.
The provisions for losses and loss adjustment on the same basis.
expenses relating to long-term permanent disability claims in the UK, Canada and Scandinavia are also determined using recognised Annuities purchased by the Group to make payments under actuarial methods.
structured settlement arrangements are accounted for as reinsurance ceded if the Group remains liable for the settlement in The provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses, and related the event of default by the annuity provider.
Any gain or loss arising reinsurance recoveries, are discounted where there is a particularly on the purchase of an annuity is recognised in the income statement long period from incident to claims settlement or when nominal at the date of purchase.
interest rates are high and where there exists a suitable claims payment pattern from which to calculate the discount.
In defining Cash and cash equivalents those claims with a long period from incident to claims settlement, Cash and cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments those categories of claims where the average period of settlement that are subject to insignificant changes in value and are readily is six years or more has been used as a guide.
The discount rate convertible into known amounts of cash.
Cash equivalents comprise used is based upon an investment return expected to be earned by financial assets with less than three months maturity from the date assets, which are appropriate in magnitude and nature to cover the of acquisition.
provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses being discounted, during the period necessary for the payment of such claims.
Own shares Own shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised Differences between the estimated cost and subsequent settlement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the own shares.
Any of claims are recognised in the income statement in the year in consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity.
which they are settled or in which the provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses are re-estimated.
Loan capital Loan capital comprises subordinated bonds which are initially At the end of each reporting period an assessment is made of measured at the consideration received less transaction costs.
whether the provisions for unearned premiums are adequate.
Subsequently, loan capital is measured at amortised cost using A separate provision is made, based on information available the effective interest rate method.
at the end of the reporting period, for any estimated future underwriting losses relating to unexpired risks.
The provision An exchange with an existing lender of loan capital with substantially is calculated after taking into account future investment income different terms is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original 84 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
Post retirement benefits including pension schemes and post The terms are substantially different if the discounted present value retirement health schemes of the cashflows under the new terms, including any fees paid net of Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged any fees received and discounted using the original effective interest in the income statement in the period in which the employment rate, is at least 10% different from the discounted present value of services qualifying for the benefit are provided.
The Group has no the remaining cashflows of the original financial liability.
An exchange further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
where the terms are not substantially different is accounted for as an exchange.
The amounts charged or credited where relevant in the income statement relating to post retirement benefits in respect of defined If an exchange of loan capital or modification of terms is accounted benefit schemes are as follows: for as an extinguishment, any costs or fees incurred are recognised as part of the gain or loss on the extinguishment.
If it is accounted r The current service cost for as an exchange, any costs or fees incurred adjust the carrying r The past service cost for additional benefits granted in the amount of the liability and are amortised over the remaining term current or earlier periods of the modified liability and no adjustment is made to the carrying r The interest cost for the period value of the liability to reflect its fair value at the date of exchange.
r The impact of any curtailments or settlements during the period r The expected return on scheme assets where relevant.
Taxation Taxation in the income statement is based on profits and income for The current service cost in respect of defined benefit schemes the year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, comprises the present value of the additional benefits attributable together with adjustments to provisions for prior years.
UK tax in to employees services provided during the period.
respect of overseas subsidiaries and principal associated undertakings is recognised as an expense in the year in which the profits arise, The present value of defined benefit obligations and the present except where the remittance of earnings can be controlled and it is value of additional benefits accruing during the period are calculated probable that remittance will not take place in the foreseeable future, using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
in which case UK tax is based on dividends received.
Past service costs arise where additional benefits are granted.
The Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method on cost of providing additional benefits is recognised on a straight line temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets basis over the remaining period of service until such benefits vest.
and liabilities and the carrying amounts in the financial statements.
The cost of providing additional benefits that vest on their However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an introduction are recognised immediately.
asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting, nor The calculation of the present value of accrued benefits includes taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax is an actuarial assumption of future interest rates, which is used to determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or discount the expected ultimate cost of providing the benefits.
substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period and are The discount rate is determined at the end of each reporting period expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised by reference to current market yields on high quality corporate or the related deferred tax liability is settled.
bonds identified to match the currency and estimated term of the obligations.
The interest cost for the period is calculated by Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable multiplying the discount rate determined at the start of the period that future taxable profits will be available against which these by the defined benefit obligations during the period.
temporary differences can be utilised.
The change in the present value of the defined benefit obligations Employee benefits and the changes in the fair value of scheme assets resulting from any Group companies operate various pension schemes.
The schemes curtailments and settlements of scheme liabilities during the period are generally funded through payments to trustee administered are recognised in the income statement.
funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The Group has both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
Additionally, any previously unrecognised past service costs related A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which to these liabilities are recognised in the gains or losses on settlement the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
benefit scheme is a pension scheme that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually The expected returns on scheme assets are determined for dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service each asset class, at the beginning of the period, as the expected and salary.
investment returns on scheme assets over the entire life of the related obligations.
All returns are net of investment expenses.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 85
