OTHER INFORMATION Distribution of shares by geography % Analysis of investors % UK 64 Unit trusts Mutual funds 52 USA and Canada 18 Private Retail 14 Europe 13 Pension funds 13 Asia and others 5 Other 14 Insurance 7 Please note that rates quoted are as at February 2013 and may Shareholdings by size as at 31 December 2012 be subject to change.
Please contact either provider for further No.
of shares Shareholders % Shares % guidance on their full terms and conditions.
We are unable to control the use of information 500,000 999,999 133 0.30 95,295,312 2.65 obtained by persons inspecting the register.
Shareholders are 1,000,000 1,999,999 106 0.24 152,531,068 4.24 advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares 2,000,000 and above 231 0.52 3,085,535,673 85.81 at a discount, or offers of free reports about the Company.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be Total 44,688 100 3,595,951,315 100 included in Company mailings or on our website.
If you receive any unsolicited advice, make sure you get the correct name of the ShareGift person and organisation and check that they are appropriately Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which authorised by the FSA by visiting www.
makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating More information on protecting your investment can be found them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered at www.
by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, registered charity number 1052686.
The relevant share transfer form can be obtained from Tips on protecting your shares Equiniti.
Further details can be obtained from www.
org r Keep any documentation that contains your shareholder or by calling 44 0 20 7930 3737. reference number in a safe place and destroy any documentation you no longer require by shredding it r Inform Equiniti promptly when you change your address r Be aware of dividend payment dates and contact Equiniti if you do not receive your dividend cheque, or better still, make arrangements to have the dividend paid directly into your bank account r Consider holding your shares electronically in a CREST account via a nominee.
Share ownership The issued share capital of the Company consists of two classes: ordinary shares with a nominal value of 27.5p each and preference shares with a nominal value of 1 each.
Further details of the Companys share capital is detailed in Note 18.
The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange under the code RSA.
The average total daily trading volume during 2012 was approximately 12m ordinary shares.
The closing market price of an ordinary share on 3 January 2012 was 107.8p and the closing market price on 31 December 2012 was 125.7p.
The highest daily closing price of an ordinary share was 127.9p on 24 December 2012 and the lowest daily closing price was 97.65p on 1 June 2012.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 149 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 27 February 2013 1 August 2013 Ex dividend date for the first preference share dividend for 2013.
Announcement of the half year results for the six months ended 30 June 2013, the ordinary interim dividend for 2013 and the second 1 March 2013 preference dividend for 2013.
Record date for the first preference dividend for 2013.
7 August 2013 2 April 2013 Ex dividend date for the second preference dividend for 2013.
Payment date for the first preference dividend for 2013.
9 August 2013 3 April 2013 Record date for the second preference dividend for 2013.
Ex dividend date for the ordinary final dividend for 2012.
25 September 2013 5 April 2013 Ex dividend date for the ordinary interim dividend for 2013.
Record date for the ordinary final dividend for 2012.
27 September 2013 10 April 2013 Record date for the ordinary interim dividend for 2013.
Announcement of the scrip dividend price for the ordinary final dividend for 2012.
1 October 2013 Payment date for the second preference dividend for 2013.
2 October 2013 Announcement of the scrip dividend price for the ordinary interim 3 May 2013 dividend for 2013.
Deadline for the receipt of scrip dividend mandates by Equiniti in relation to the ordinary final dividend for 2012.
25 October 2013 Deadline for the receipt of scrip dividend mandates by Equiniti 15 May 2013 in relation to the ordinary interim dividend for 2013.
7 November 2013 24 May 2013 Q3 2013 interim management statement.
Payment date for the ordinary final dividend for 2012 subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
22 November 2013 Payment of the ordinary interim dividend for 2013.
Provisional date 150 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OTHER INFORMATION JARGON BUSTER Below is a simple explanation of some of the key technical terms used within this report.
Term Definition Affinity r Selling insurance through a partners distribution network, usually to a group of similar customers, e. g. store card holders, alumni groups, unions and utility company customers.
Bancassurance r Selling insurance through a banks distribution network.
Capacity r Largest amount of insurance available from a company r Can also refer to the largest amount of insurance or reinsurance available in the marketplace.
Capital r The money invested in the Group.
This includes the money invested by shareholders and profits retained within the Group.
Claims Frequency r Average number of claims per policy over the year.
Claims Handling Expenses r The administrative cost of processing a claim salary costs, costs of running claims centres, etc.
and allocated shares of the costs of head office units.
Not the cost of the claim itself.
Claims Ratio r Percentage of Net Earned Premiums which is paid out in claims and Claims Handling Expenses.
Loss Ratio Claims Reserve r Reserve established by the Group to reflect the estimated cost of claims payments and related expenses Provision for Losses and that we estimate we will ultimately be required to pay.
Loss Adjustment Expenses Claims Severity r Average cost of claims incurred over the period.
Combined Operating Ratio r The sum of the Claims Ratio and Expense Ratio COR r Measures how much we pay out in claims and expenses for each unit of net premium received r A COR of less than 100% indicates that we are writing profitable business r Calculated as: Net Incurred Claims Expenses including commissions %% Net Earned Premiums Net Written Premiums Commission r An amount paid to an intermediary such as a broker for generating business.
Commission Ratio r Ratio of net commission costs to Net Written Premiums.
Current Year Result r The underwriting profit or loss earned from business for which protection has been provided in the current financial period.
Earned Premium r The portion of an insurance premium for which we have already provided protection.
Economic Capital r The Groups assessment of the capital we must hold to have a high confidence of meeting our obligations given our risk appetite.
Expense Ratio r Percentage of Net Written Premiums which is paid out in operating expenses e. g. salaries, premises costs, etc.
The ratio does not include claims related expenses but can include or exclude commissions.
Exposure r A measurement of risk we are exposed to through the premiums we have written.
For example, in motor insurance one vehicle insured for one year is one unit of exposure.
Financial Services Authority r The regulatory authority for the UK financial services industry or its successor s for the UK insurance industry.
FSA Gross Written Premium r Total premium written or processed in the period, irrespective of whether it has been paid.
GWP IBNR r A reserve for accidents or incidents that have occurred but which have not yet been reported to us.
Incurred but Not Reported IGD Capital Requirement r Insurance Groups Directive capital is the capital the Group is required to hold based on standard calculations defined by the FSA under the EU Solvency 1 directive.
Insurance Result r This is a measure of how well we have done, including both our underwriting result and investment performance.
Net Asset Value r The value of the Group calculated by subtracting our total liabilities including loan capital from our total assets.
NAV This represents the funds that would be available to ordinary shareholders if the Group were wound up.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 151 JARGON BUSTER CONTINUED Net Earned Premium r The portion of Net Written Premiums for which we have already provided protection.
This is included NEP as income in the period.
Net Incurred Claims r The total claims cost incurred in the period less any share to be paid by reinsurers.
It includes both claims NIC payments and movements in claims reserves in the period.
Net Written Premium r Net Written Premium is premium written or processed in the period, irrespective of whether it has been NWP paid, less the amount paid out in reinsurance premiums.
Operating Profit r The profit generated by the ordinary activities of the Group including both insurance and investment activity.
Portfolio Management r Management of a group of similar risks, these are usually grouped by geography and line of business.
Prior Year Result r Profit or loss generated by settling claims incurred in a previous year at a better or worse level than the previous estimated cost.
Property and Casualty r Property insurance covers loss or damage through fire, theft, floods, storms and other specified risks.
P&C Casualty insurance primarily covers losses arising from accidents that cause injury to other people or Non Life Insurance damage to the property of others.
or General Insurance Rate r The price of a unit of insurance based on a standard risk for one year.
Actual premium charged to the customer may differ from the rate due to individual risk characteristics and marketing discounts.
Reinsurance r The practice whereby we transfer part or all of the risk we have accepted to another insurer the reinsurer.
Run-off r A situation where an insurer is no longer underwriting new business but continues to meet its liabilities under existing contracts.
Solvency II r New capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry.
Establishes a revised set of EU wide capital requirements and risk management standards.
Scrip Dividend r Where shareholders choose to receive the dividend in the form of additional shares rather than cash.
The Group issues new shares to meet the scrip demand.
Total Shareholder Return r A measure of performance based on the overall value to shareholders of their investment in the Group over a period of time.
Includes the movement in the share price and dividends paid, expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the period.
Underlying Return r A measure of the profits the Group earns, adjusted for profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, reorganisation on Average Equity and integration costs and acquisition costs, relative to average funds attributable to ordinary shareholders.
Underwriting Result r This is a measure of how well the Group has done excluding its investment performance and is calculated as: NEP Claims including Claims Handling Expenses Expenses including commissions.
Unearned Premium r The portion of a premium that relates to future periods, for which protection has not yet been provided, irrespective of whether the premium has been paid or not.
Yield r Rate of return on an investment in percentage terms r The dividend payable on a share expressed as a percentage of the market price.
152 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Important disclaimer authorities including changes related to capital and solvency requirements, the This document contains forward-looking statements with respect to certain of the impact of competition, inflation, deflation, the timing impact and other uncertainties Groups plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition, of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant industries, as well as the impact performance, results, strategic initiatives and objectives.
Generally, words such as may, of tax and other legislation or regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Group and its could, will, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, aim, outlook, believe, plan, affiliates operate.
As a result, the Groups actual future financial condition, performance seek, continue or similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements.
These and results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
By their nature, Groups forward-looking statements.
The Group undertakes no obligation to update all forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future any forward-looking statements, save in respect of any requirement under applicable events and circumstances which are beyond the Groups control, including amongst other law or regulation.
Neither the content of RSAs website nor the content of any other things, UK domestic and global economic business conditions, market-related risks such website accessible from hyperlinks on RSAs website is incorporated into, or forms as fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates, the policies and actions of regulatory part of, this document.
com Designed and produced by Addison www.
co. uk Directors photography by Homer Sykes and Liam Bailey Executive Team by Liam Bailey Photography for the front cover supplied by Shutterstock Images Photography for page 9 supplied by Codan Photography for pages 6 and 7, 11, 12, 34 and 35, 72 and 73, 146 and 147 supplied by Getty Images Printed by CPI Colour on Amadeus 50 50 silk which has 50% Recovered Fibre and Amadeus Uncoated which is 100% post consumer waste.
The paper and the printer are FSC accredited.
The printer is accredited ISO 14001 and is a Carbon Neutral Printing Company
