Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure the Remuneration report and the consolidated financial statements and Transparency Rules in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Each of the Directors, whose name and functions are listed in the Directors proles section of this Annual Report and Accounts The Companies Act 2006, being the applicable law in the UK, confirms that, to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each The consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance financial year.
The Directors have prepared the Group and the with IFRS as adopted by the EU and in accordance with Company financial statements in accordance with International the Companies Act 2006, give a true and fair view of the Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company Union EU.
The financial statements are required by law to give a and the Group: true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the The Directors report contained in the Annual Report and Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Accounts which comprises the sections described on page 76, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required to: business and the position of the Company and the Group and a Select suitable accounting policies and then apply description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: them consistently: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and State that the financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted They have each taken all the steps that ought to have been taken by the EU, subject to any material departure disclosed and by them as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any explained in the financial statements: and relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, auditors are aware of that information.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity assumptions or qualications as necessary.
of the audited financial information on our website at www.
The Directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FSA to include a management report containing a fair Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of review of the business and a description of the principal risks and financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
uncertainties facing the Company and Group.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper books of Forward-looking statements accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy This Annual Report and Accounts and the Schroders website may at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group contain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the condition, results of operations and businesses of the Group.
Such Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they are regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the International based on current expectations and assumptions but relate to events Accounting Standards Regulation.
They are also responsible for and depend upon circumstances in the future.
Without limitation, any safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence statements preceded or followed by or that include the words targets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud plans, believes, expects, aims, or anticipates or the negative and other irregularities.
of these terms or other similar terms are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements and forecasts.
Forward-looking statements and forecasts are based on the Directors current view and information known to them at the date of this report.
The Directors do not make any undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 77 Developing Being an employer of choice Retaining and developing talent is key to organisational stability and long-term success.
The Group has more than 3,000 employees across 27 countries.
93% Employee retention 78 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial report Financial review 80 Consolidated financial statements 82 Notes to the accounts 96 Independent auditors report 140 Schroders plc financial statements 141 Independent auditors report on Schroders plc 149 Five-year consolidated financial summary 150 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 79
