Accounting Policies A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out in Expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal paragraphs a to j below.
All have been applied consistently of an investment are treated as part of the cost, or deducted throughout the current and the preceding year: from the sales proceeds, of the investment.
a Basis of Accounting f Finance Costs The financial statements are prepared on a going concern Interest payable is charged one-half to revenue reserve basis under the historical cost convention see page 20, and one-half to capital reserve in line with the directors modified to include the revaluation of investments at fair value, expectations of long-term future returns from the companys and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting investments 2011: same.
The companys accounting policies comply with the The discount on, and expenses of issue of, the secured bonds AIC Statement of Recommended Practice SORP issued in due 2030 are included in the financing costs of the issue which January 2009 Financial Statements of Investment Trust are being written off over the life of the bonds.
Companies and Venture Capital Trusts.
g Taxation b Valuation of Investments Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid Listed investments and current asset investments are valued or recovered.
at fair value through profit and loss.
Fair value is the closing Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which bid or last traded price according to the recognised convention result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay of the markets on which they are quoted.
Where trading in more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date.
Timing the securities of an investee company is suspended, the differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and investment is valued at the boards estimate of its net realisable expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from value.
Where appropriate, the directors have adopted the those in which they are included in the financial statements.
guidelines issued by the International Private Equity and Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is Venture Capital Association for the valuation of unlisted regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Heritable property is included at a professional Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Depreciation is not charged on heritable property The company has no deferred tax asset or liability.
Realised surpluses or deficits on the disposal of investments, h Foreign Currency permanent impairments in the value of investments and Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded unrealised surpluses and deficits on the revaluation of in the local currency at actual exchange rates at the date of the investments are taken to capital reserve as explained transaction or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in in note i below.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are reported at the rates Year end exchange rates are used to translate the value of of exchange prevailing at the year end.
Any gain or loss arising investments which are denominated in foreign currencies.
from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the c Valuation of Debt transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in capital The Companys secured bonds and debentures are held reserve or in the revenue account depending on whether the at amortised cost being the nominal value of the bonds in gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
issue less the unamortised costs of issue.
i Capital Reserve d Income The following are accounted for in this reserve: Dividends receivable on quoted shares are brought into account gains and losses on the realisation of investments: on the ex-dividend date.
Dividends receivable on shares where realised and unrealised exchange differences of no ex-dividend date is quoted are brought into account when a capital nature: the companys right to receive payment is established.
realised and unrealised gains and losses on transactions undertaken to hedge an exposure of a capital nature: Interest and other income from non-equity securities, including the funding of share and secured bond buybacks: debt securities, are recognised on a time apportionment basis expenses and interest charged to capital: so as to reflect the effective yield on the securities.
increases and decreases in the valuation of investments Where the company elects to receive dividends in the form held at the year end: and of additional shares scrip dividends rather than in cash, increases and decreases in the valuation of the pension the amount of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the j Pensions amount of the cash is recognised in capital reserves.
Employer contributions for the defined benefit scheme are e Expenses calculated by reference to the triennial actuarial valuation.
All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Employer contributions for the defined contribution scheme are a predetermined percentage of the employees salary.
Investment expenses are allocated between revenue and capital reserve in line with the directors expectations of Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the Statement the nature of long-term future returns from the companys of Recognised Gains and Losses.
Further information on the companys pension schemes is contained in Note 4 to the Financial Statements on pages 30 to 32.
28 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012
