Investor Information In addition to these products, you can buy SIT shares directly How to Invest on the stockmarket through a stockbroker.
Your bank, lawyer, The companys wholly-owned subsidiary, SIT Savings Ltd, accountant or other professional adviser may also be able to provides a number of low-cost, flexible investment products help with this.
SITs registrar, Computershare Investor Services which enable investors to acquire SIT shares easily.
PLC, provides a sharedealing service which can be accessed on its website, www.
co. uk or by telephoning STOCKPLAN 0870 703 0195.
SITs investment trust savings scheme is one of the most cost-effective available.
There is no initial plan charge, other than Update on Tax-Efficient Investing stamp duty and dealing spread, and no annual charge.
It costs ISAs just 11.95 to sell some or all of your holding.
STOCKPLAN allows you to invest regularly minimum investment 25 per The overall annual ISA investment limit is currently 11,280. month and or with a lump sum minimum investment 250.
Up to the full 11,280 can be invested in a stocks and There is no maximum investment limit and you can stop and shares ISA with one provider.
Alternatively, up to 5,640 restart investing at any time.
can be saved in a cash ISA with one provider: the remainder of the 11,280 can be invested in a stocks and shares ISA with either the same or another provider.
STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start The annual ISA investment limit is indexed annually in line with SITs investing for children plan is based on the STOCKPLAN the Consumer Prices Index CPI for the September before the scheme.
It benefits from the same low charges and flexibility start of each new tax year.
and can be opened in one of two ways: either as a designated The annual ISA investment limit for the 2013 14 tax year is plan or, more formally, as a bare trust.
Up to 5,760 may be placed in a cash ISA and the Start enables family and friends to invest on behalf of a child remainder can be invested in a stocks and shares ISA with to help build savings for the future.
either the same or another provider.
Alternatively, the full 11,520 can be invested in a stocks and shares ISA with The SIT ISA one provider.
This is one of the lowest-charging investment trust company Transfers from previous years cash ISAs into stocks and stocks and shares ISAs on offer.
There is no initial plan charge, shares ISAs are permitted and do not count against the other than stamp duty and dealing spread, nor are there closure current years subscription.
The annual management fee of 0.6% of Investment in ISAs continues to be free from capital gains the value of the investment is currently capped at 30 VAT tax.
Tax payers do not have to pay any additional tax.
regardless of how much your SIT ISA investment grows or how many years ISA allowances you have invested with SIT.
Contact Telephone Numbers Full contact details for the scheme administrators and registrar The SIT ISA Transfer can be found in the Useful Addresses section on page 49.
SIT can accept the transfer of existing stocks and shares ISAs from other qualifying managers into The SIT ISA at any time STOCKPLAN and ISA investors wishing to: without losing the ISAs tax status.
SIT can also accept the give a change of address transfer of cash ISAs into The SIT ISA.
This would turn the instruct a sale cash ISA being transferred into a stocks and shares ISA.
request a valuation SIT makes no charge for transfers in.
However, the previous make an investment using their debit card ISA manager may charge for administering the transfer out.
change the amount of their monthly investment access their STOCKPLAN and ISA information online The SIT SIPP make general queries about their account or scheme This allows investment into SIT through a low-cost, flexible, self-invested personal pension.
The wide choice of investments can contact the scheme administrator, Halifax Share Dealing available, including SIT, enables you to tailor the investment Limited HSDL, on: 0845 850 0181. combination in the SIPP to suit your particular needs and objectives whether you are just starting to contribute to your SIT SIPP investors with questions about the administration of pension or are approaching retirement.
You can open a SIT their SIPP, or any other pension-related enquiry, can contact SIPP even if you are already an active member of an employers the SIPP administrator, AJ Bell Management Limited, on: pension scheme or are contributing to other pension plans.
You can also set up a SIT SIPP for a child or a non-earning spouse or partner.
Shareholders who hold share certificates can contact the registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, on: 0870 703 0195.
Report & Accounts 2012 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 43 Investor Information continued Please note, you will need your Share Dealing Personal Dividends Reference Number PRN to access this service.
If you do not The following dividends have been paid or proposed during 2012: have this, please contact SITs scheme administrator, HSDL, Record Payment on 0845 850 0181.
Dividends Amount XD date date date SIPP investors Final 2011 5.80p 4 January 6 January 6 February SIPP investors can set up monthly payments, buy and 2012 2012 2012 sell shares and access their account online, by visiting Interim 2012 4.60p 6 June 8 June 13 July www.
co. uk online 2012 2012 2012 Shareholders who hold share certificates Final 2012 6.65p 2 January 4 January 4 February Investors who hold share certificates can check their holdings 2013 2013 2013 on SITs registrars website, www.
co. uk or through the link in the investor relations section on SITs website, www.
co. uk Please note that to access this facility, SIT STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes investors will need to quote the shareholder reference number The STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes provide automatic shown on their share certificate.
However, they also allow for dividends to be taken as income, if required.
STOCKPLAN By registering for the Investors Centre facility on Computershares and ISA holders should contact the scheme administrator, website, investors can also view details of all their holdings for HSDL, on 0845 850 0181 if they would like to change their which Computershare is registrar, as well as access additional dividend arrangements.
Shareholders who hold share certificates Please see www.
co. uk for further information.
Conversely, for shareholders who hold share certificates investors whose names are on SITs share register and who Electronic Communications are not in SITs schemes dividends are automatically paid as Shareholders who hold share certificates income.
However, it is easy to arrange to have these dividends reinvested by joining SITs Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
If you hold share certificates i. e. you are not in the STOCKPLAN, Details are available from Computershare Investor Services, ISA or SIPP schemes, nor in a brokers nominee, you may SITs registrar, on 0870 703 0195, or from the investor relations choose to receive SITs interim and annual reports and other section on SITs website, www.
co. uk shareholder communications electronically instead of in paper form.
To register, simply visit the link in the investor relations section on SITs website, www.
co. uk and provide your Monitoring Your Investment email details.
You will then be advised by email when an SITs share price, together with performance information and electronic communication is available to be accessed.
product details, can be found on SITs website, www.
co. uk Shareholders Meetings The share price is published daily in most quality newspapers.
In addition, a number of financial websites, Shareholders who hold share certificates such as the FT, www.
ft. com and the London Stock Investors who hold share certificates are entitled to attend Exchange, www.
com carry and vote at the AGM and other general meetings.
of meetings and proxy cards are sent to their registered addresses.
SIT publishes a daily NAV and a monthly factsheet on its website.
An interim report is issued in June of each STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, ISA, and SIPP year and the annual report is distributed to all investors investors who invest in SIT in late December.
STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, ISA, and SIPP investors who invest in SIT are entitled to attend the AGM STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and ISA investors and other general meetings and vote by completing and receive twice yearly statements of their holdings and SITs returning the form of direction enclosed with this report.
investor newsletter is issued twice yearly.
The AGM will be held at the Royal College of Physicians Accessing Your Account Online of Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, Edinburgh EH2 1JQ, ISA, STOCKPLAN and STOCKPLAN: on 25 January 2013 at 10.30am.
A Flying Start designated scheme investors The above scheme investors may view their accounts online by registering with .
This can be accessed through the links in the various product sections on SITs website, www.
co. uk online 44 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 Investor Information continued Electronic Voting Investor Relations and Shareholders who hold share certificates Compliance Manager Shareholders who hold share certificates are able to submit Alan Jamieson proxy votes electronically for the AGM.
Please follow the instructions on your proxy card.
Marketing Manager Personal Taxation SIT Savings Ltd Income Tax Sherry-Ann Sweeting Currently, all UK dividends are paid to shareholders net of a tax credit of 10%.
Non-tax payers cannot reclaim the tax credit.
Non-ISA shareholders liable to higher rates of tax will be assessed for any additional tax through their annual tax return.
Capital Gains Tax CGT When investors sell all or part of their holdings, they may be liable to CGT.
Currently, the first 10,600 per annum of such gains from all sources is exempt.
For investors who acquired shares prior to 31 March 1982, the cost for CGT purposes may be based on the price on that date of 41.472p.
Investors who are in any doubt as to their liability for CGT should seek professional advice.
ISA investments remain exempt from CGT.
Please remember that we are unable to offer individual investment or taxation advice.
If you require such advice, you should consult your professional adviser.
SIT Savings Limited is the plan manager of STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and The SIT ISA and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, 25 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HS.
Risk Warning Past performance may not be repeated and is not a guide to future performance.
The value of shares and the income from them can go down as well as up as a result of market and currency fluctuations.
You may not get back the amount you invest.
The Scottish Investment Trust PLC has a long-term policy of borrowing money to invest in equities in the expectation that this will improve returns but should stockmarkets fall, such borrowings would magnify losses on these investments.
SIT can buy back and cancel its own shares.
All other things being equal, this would have the effect of increasing gearing.
Investment in SIT is intended as a long-term investment.
Tax rates and reliefs can change in the future and the value of any tax advantages will depend on personal circumstances.
Report & Accounts 2012 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 45
