NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 Related Party Transactions The Directors fees for the year are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 28.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
During the year no Director was interested in any contract or other matter requiring disclosure under section 412 of the Companies Act 2006.
The details of the management fee are set out in note 3, and the management fee due to Baillie Gifford as at 31 March 2012 is disclosed in note 11.
Details of the holding in an Open Ended Investment Company managed by Baillie Gifford & Co are shown in note 9 on page 41.
20 Contingencies, Guarantees and Financial Commitments At the year end the Company had a capital commitment amounting to US$14,769,400 2011 US$20,750,000 in respect of two subscription agreements, Innovation Works Development Fund, L. P. with a total commitment of US$15 million which expires on 21 May 2020 and WI Harper Fund VII Management with a total commitment of US$10 million which expires on 3 March 2019.
At 31 March 2012 US$4.50 million and US$5.73 million 2011 US$2.25 million and US$2.00 million has been drawn down on each of these agreements respectively.
21 Summary of Main Investment Restrictions As incorporated within the Investment Management Agreement between the Company and Baillie Gifford & Co. Holding size At the time of investment, a maximum of 8% of total assets may be invested in any one holding.
This restriction does not apply to investment in collective investment schemes, issues by way of rights or certain government bonds.
A maximum of 40% of total assets may be invested in holdings individually exceeding 3% of the value of the Companys total assets.
Again, this restriction does not apply to collective investment schemes, issues by way of rights or certain government bonds.
The maximum permitted investment in other UK listed investment companies in aggregate is 15% of gross assets.
Categories of investment No investment shall be made on which there is unlimited liability.
The Managers must seek permission of the Board to invest in collective investment schemes managed by Baillie Gifford & Co. With prior approval of the Board, the Company may undertake derivative transactions for the purpose of efficient portfolio management and for investment purposes.
22 Financial Instruments As an Investment Trust, the Company invests in equities and makes other investments so as to achieve its investment objective of maximising total return, whilst also generating real dividend growth, from a focused and actively managed global portfolio.
In pursuing its investment objective, the Company is exposed to various types of risk that are associated with the financial instruments and markets in which it invests.
These risks are categorised here as market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The Board monitors closely the Companys exposures to these risks but does so in order to reduce the likelihood of a permanent loss of capital rather than to minimise the short term volatility.
Risk provides the potential for both loss and gains and in assessing risk, the Board encourages the Managers to exploit the opportunities that risk affords.
The risk management policies and procedures outlined in this note have not changed substantially from the previous accounting period.
Market Risk The fair value of future cash ows of a financial instrument or other investment held by the Company may uctuate because of changes in market prices.
This market risk comprises three elements currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk.
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing these risks and the Companys Investment Managers both assess the exposure to market risk when making individual investment decisions and monitor the overall level of market risk across the investment portfolio on a continuing basis.
Details of the Companys investment portfolio are shown in note 9 and on pages 15 to 18.
Currency Risk Certain of the Companys assets, liabilities and income are denominated in currencies other than sterling the Companys functional currency and that in which it reports its results.
Consequently, movements in exchange rates may affect the sterling value of those items.
The Investment Managers monitor the Companys exposure to foreign currencies and report to the Board on a regular basis.
The Investment Managers assess the risk to the Company of the foreign currency exposure by considering the effect on the Companys net asset value and income of a movement in the rates of exchange to which the Companys assets, liabilities, income and expenses are exposed.
However, the country in which a company is listed is not necessarily where it earns its profits.
The movement in exchange rates on earnings may have a more significant impact upon a companys valuation than a simple translation of the currency in which the company is quoted.
Foreign currency borrowings can limit the Companys exposure to anticipated future changes in exchange rates which might otherwise adversely affect the value of the portfolio of investments.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 45
