COMMUNICATING WITH SHAREHOLDERS Communicating with Shareholders Trust magazine A Scottish Mortgage web page at www.
com Promoting Scottish Mortgage Suggestions and Questions Baillie Gifford carries out extensive marketing activity to promote Scottish Any suggestions on how communications with shareholders can be improved Mortgage to institutional, intermediary and direct investors.
Please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team see warmly supports the promotion of the plans described on page 53 in order contact details below and give them your suggestions.
They will also be very to bring the merits of Scottish Mortgage to as wide an audience as possible.
happy to answer any questions that you may have, either about Scottish Mortgage or the plans described on page 53.
Trust Magazine Literature in Alternative Formats Trust is the Baillie Gifford investment trust magazine which is published three times a year.
It provides an insight to our investment approach by including It is possible to provide copies of literature in alternative formats, such as interviews with our fund managers, as well as containing investment trust large print or on audio tape.
Please contact the Baillie Gifford Client news, investment features and articles about the trusts managed by Baillie Relations Team for more information.
Trust plays an important role in helping Client Relations Team Contact Details to explain our products so that readers can really understand them.
For a You can contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team by telephone, copy of Trust, please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team see email, fax or post: contact details opposite.
Telephone: 0800 027 0133 An online version of Trust can be found at www.
Your call may be recorded for training or monitoring purposes.
Guides to Investment Trusts E-mail: trustenquiries@bailliegifford.
com Baillie Gifford has produced a number of educational guides on investment Website: www.
These are designed to explain how investment trusts work and to explain Fax: 0131 275 3955 the various ways you can invest in them.
If you would like copies of any of the Client Relations Team guides, please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team see contact Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited details opposite.
Calton Square 1 Greenside Row Scottish Mortgage on the Web Edinburgh EH1 3AN Up-to-date information about Scottish Mortgage is on the Scottish Mortgage For Scottish Mortgage specic queries, please use the following contact page of the Managers website at www.
You will details: nd full details of Scottish Mortgage, including recent portfolio information and performance gures.
com Please note that Baillie Gifford is not permitted to give financial advice.
If you would like advice or if you have any questions about the suitability of any of these plans for you, please ask an authorised intermediary.
