DIRECTORS REPORT Authority to Allot Shares and Disapply Pre-emption Rights Resolution 13, which is being proposed as a special resolution, seeks to give the Directors power to sell ordinary shares held in treasury see above for cash up to a maximum of 6,340,497 in aggregate representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares of the Company as at 8 May 2012 without first being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
This power will last until the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2013.
The Directors consider that the power proposed to be granted by Resolution 13 is advantageous should the shares trade at a premium to net asset value and natural liquidity is unable to meet demand.
The Directors do not intend to use this power to sell shares on a non pre-emptive basis at a discount to net asset value.
At 8 May 2012 the Company held 30,726,279 treasury shares, representing 12.1% of the ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
The Directors believe that granting the power to sell treasury shares in the above circumstances is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the resolution.
Recommendation The Board unanimously recommends you to vote in favour of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Creditor Payment Policy It is the Companys payment policy for the forthcoming financial year to obtain the best terms for all business.
In general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is its policy to abide by these terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at 31 March 2012 or 2011.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditor The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Independent Auditor The Auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, is willing to continue in ofce and, in accordance with section 489 and section 491 i of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions concerning their reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
JOHN SCOTT Chairman 8 May 2012 SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27
