NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS iii Franked income is stated net of tax credits.
1 Principal Accounting Policies The financial statements for the year to 31 March 2012 have been iv Unfranked investment income includes the taxes deducted at prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out below, source.
which are unchanged from last year and have been applied v Interest receivable on deposits is recognised on an accruals consistently.
a Basis of Accounting vi If scrip is taken in lieu of dividends in cash, the net amount of The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis the cash dividend declared is credited to the revenue account.
under the historical cost convention, modied to include the Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount revaluation of xed asset investments, and on the assumption that of the cash dividend foregone is recognised as capital.
approval as an investment trust will continue to be granted.
d Expenses The Directors consider the Companys functional currency to be All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses are sterling as the Companys shareholders are predominantly based in charged through the revenue column of the income statement except the UK and the Company is subject to the UKs regulatory as follows: where they relate directly to the acquisition or disposal of environment.
an investment transaction costs, in which case they are recognised The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with as capital within losses gains on investments: and where they are The Companies Act 2006, applicable UK Accounting Standards connected with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial investments, in which case they are charged 50:50 to the revenue Statements of Investment Trust Companies issued in January 2009. account and capital reserve.
In order to reect better the activities of the trust and in accordance e Long Term Borrowings and Finance Costs with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which Long term borrowings are carried in the balance sheet at the analyses the profit and loss account between items of a revenue and cumulative amount of net proceeds after issue, plus accrued finance capital nature has been presented in the income statement.
costs attributable to the stepped interest debentures.
The finance Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the costs of such borrowings are allocated 50:50 to the revenue column Companys balance sheet when it becomes a party to the of the income statement and capital reserve at a constant rate on the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Issue costs are written off at a constant rate over the life of the borrowings.
Gains and losses on the repurchase or b Investments early settlement of debt is wholly charged to capital.
Purchases and sales of investments are accounted for on a trade date basis.
All investments are designated as valued at fair value f Taxation through profit or loss upon initial recognition.
The fair value of listed The tax effect of different items of income and expenditure is securities investments is bid value, or in the case of FTSE 100 allocated between revenue and capital on the same basis as the constituents, at last traded prices issued by the London Stock particular item to which it relates, under the marginal method, using Exchange.
the Companys effective tax rate for the accounting period.
Listed investments include Open Ended Investment Companies Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences, calculated at OEICs authorised in the UK: these are valued at closing price the current tax rate relevant to the benefit or liability.
Deferred tax and are classied for valuation purposes according to the principal assets are recognised only to the extent that it will be more likely geographical area of the underlying holdings.
than not that there will be taxable profits from which underlying timing differences can be deducted.
The fair value of unlisted investments uses valuation techniques, determined by the Directors, based upon latest dealing prices, g Foreign Currencies stockbroker valuations, net asset values and other information, as Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate appropriate.
ruling at the time of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the closing rates of exchange at the Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of balance sheet date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in investments are considered to be realised to the extent that they are exchange rate subsequent to the date of the transaction is included readily convertible to cash, without accepting adverse terms, at the as an exchange gain or loss in capital reserve or revenue reserve as balance sheet date.
Fair value gains on unlisted investments are not appropriate.
considered to be readily convertible to cash and are therefore treated as unrealised.
The treatment of listed investments is h Capital Reserve dependent upon the individual circumstances of each holding.
Gains and losses on disposal of investments, changes in fair value of investments held, exchange differences of a capital nature and the c Income amount by which other assets and liabilities valued at fair value i Income from equity investments is brought into account on the differ from their book cost are dealt with in this reserve.
Purchases of date on which the investments are quoted ex-dividend or, where the Companys own shares are also funded from this reserve.
50% of no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to management fees and finance costs are allocated to the capital receive payment is established.
reserve in accordance with the Companys objective of combining ii Interest from xed interest securities is recognised on an effective capital and income growth.
Where income returns are for a non-xed amount, the impact of these returns on the effective interest rate is recognised once such returns are known.
If there is reasonable doubt that a return will be received, its recognition is deferred until that doubt is removed.
