ST ANDREW SQUARE A7 NORTH BRIDGE C A L L T L I H O G E C ON LT A A R N C L P R O A D NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the ofces of Baillie Gifford & Co.
Please arrive at the entrance at The Cube, 45 Leith Street, Edinburgh, EH1 3AT as shown on the map rather than the usual Omni main entrance on Greenside Row on Thursday, 28 June 2012 at 4.30pm.
Cinema JOHN LEWIS If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the meeting, please call us on 0800 027 0133.
ST. JAMES BUS CENTRE STATION Baillie Gifford may record your call.
THISTLE HOTEL The Cube Public Transport BALMORAL By Rail: HOTEL Edinburgh Waverley approximately a 5 minute walk away.
EDINBURGH WAVERLEY Access to Waverley Train Station on foot.
STATION Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one-hundred and third Annual To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolutions as General Meeting of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC will be Special Resolutions: held within the ofces of Baillie Gifford & Co, The Cube, 45 Leith 12.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, but without Street, Edinburgh, EH1 3AT on Thursday, 28 June 2012 at 4.30pm prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the for the following purposes: date hereof, the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with Section 701 of Ordinary Business the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to make market purchases To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolutions as within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of fully paid Ordinary Resolutions: ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Company 1.
To receive and adopt the Financial Statements of the Company ordinary shares either for retention as treasury shares for future for the year to 31 March 2012 with the Reports of the Directors reissue, resale, transfer or for cancellation, provided that: and of the Independent Auditor thereon.
a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to hereby authorised to be purchased is 38,017,622 31 March 2012. being approximately 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company on the date on which this 3.
To re-elect Mr JPHS Scott as a Director.
b the minimum price excluding expenses which may be paid 5.
To re-elect Mr MM Gray as a Director.
for each ordinary share is 25 pence: 6.
To re-elect Professor JA Kay as a Director.
c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid 7.
To re-elect Ms FC McBain as a Director.
for each ordinary share shall not be more than the higher of: 8.
To re-elect Mr WG McQueen as a Director.
i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the London Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the 9.
To elect Dr L Yueh as a Director.
five business days immediately preceding the date of 10.
To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as Independent Auditor of the purchase: and Company to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next Annual ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and General Meeting at which the financial statements are laid the highest current independent bid on the London Stock before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the Company Independent Auditor of the Company.
in general meeting, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held in respect of the financial year ending 31 March 2013, save that the Company may, prior to the expiry of such authority, enter into a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under such authority which will or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract or contracts.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 55 O E O Q U E E N S T R E E T L GEORGE STREET R E A 8 P R I N C E S S T R E E T WAT L LEITH WALK E E N I S I D E T H S T R E E T ST ANDREW SQUARE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 13.
That, the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby Notes generally empowered pursuant to section 573 of the Companies 1 As a member you are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to Act 2006 the Act to sell equity securities as dened in exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at the sections 560 1 and 560 2 of the Act in the Company if, AGM.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must immediately before the sale, such shares are held by the attend the AGM to represent you.
You may appoint more than Company as treasury shares as dened in section 724 3 of one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights the Act treasury shares for cash consideration as dened in attached to different shares.
You can only appoint a proxy using section 727 2 of the Act as if subsection 1 of section 561 of the procedure set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy the Act did not apply to any such sale, provided that this power form.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in shall be limited to: this notice or any related documents including the circular and proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purpose a the sale of treasury shares in connection with a rights issue other than those expressly stated.
in favour of the holders of ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the Company Shares where the equity 2.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a securities respectively attributable to the interests of all proxy, together with any power of attorney or other authority such shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be under which it is signed or a certied copy thereof, must be practicable to the respective number of Shares held or received by post or during normal business hours only by hand deemed or notionally held by them but subject to such at the Registrars of the Company at Computershare Investor exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors deem Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or www.
co. uk eproxy no later than 48 hours or to deal with problems under the laws, or requirements of, excluding non-working days before the time of the meeting or any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory: and any adjourned meeting.
b the sale of treasury shares other than pursuant to paragraph 3.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through a of this resolution of up to an aggregate nominal value the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by of 6,340,497 being 10% of the Companys issued Share using the procedures described in the CREST Manual and Capital as at 8 May 2012: or by logging on to the website www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service Meeting of the Company to be held in 2013, save that the provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service Company may, before such expiry, make any offer or enter into provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on an agreement which would or might require treasury shares to their behalf.
be sold after the expiry of such power, and the Directors of the Company may sell treasury shares in pursuance of such offer or 4.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specications, By order of the Board and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless Baillie Gifford & Co Managers and Secretaries of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed 21 May 2012 proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys registrar ID 3RA50 no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Companys registrar is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
56 ANNUAL REPORT 2012 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 5.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, 11.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & appointment of proxies in Notes 1 and 2 above does not apply Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in those Notes can CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST 12.
The members of the Company may require the Company to Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member publish, on its website, without payment a statement which is concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal also passed to the auditor setting out any matter relating to the member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting audit of the Companys accounts, including the auditors report service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting and the conduct of the audit.
The Company will be required to service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to do so once it has received such requests from either members ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the Company system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST or at least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid up system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of an average sum per member of at least 100.
Such requests the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST must be made in writing and must state your full name and system and timings.
address and be sent to the Company at Calton Square, 6.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh, EH1 3AN.
in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the 13.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001. information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 7.
The return of a completed proxy form or other instrument of proxy 2006, is available from the Companys page of the Managers will not prevent you attending the AGM and voting in person if website at www.
Members have the right to ask questions at the meeting in 8.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Investment accordance with Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006.
Trust Share Plan, Childrens Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford 15.
As at 8 May 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to the Investment Trust ISA who wish to vote and or attend the meeting publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital must complete and return the enclosed reply-paid Form of consisted of 253,619,897 ordinary shares excluding treasury Direction.
shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities in the Company as at 8 May 2012 were 253,619,897 votes.
Regulations 2001 and Section 311 of the Companies Act 16.
Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights of the 2006 the Company species that to be entitled to attend and Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman of vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of the meeting as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and his the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, proxy complies with their respective disclosure obligations under shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
the Company no later than 48 hours excluding non-working 17.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
days prior to the commencement of the AGM or any adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 57 Directors Registrar Banker Company Broker Independent Auditor Chairman: Computershare Investor The Bank of Cenkos Securities plc KPMG Audit Plc JPHS Scott FCII FCSI Services PLC New York Mellon 6.7.
8 Tokenhouse Yard Saltire Court The Pavilions London 20 Castle Terrace Dr MM Gray OBE DL Bridgwater Road EC2R 7AS Edinburgh Professor JA Kay FBA FRSE Bristol BS13 8AE EH1 2EG FC McBain ACA Tel: 0870 707 1300 WG McQueen CA FCIBS www.
com Dr L Yueh Company registration No.
SC007058 Managers, Secretaries and Registered Ofce Baillie Gifford & Co Calton Square 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN Tel: 0131 275 2000 Website: www.
