204 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements e New accounting standards adopted by the Group 1.
Accounting policies The Group adopted the following amendments to existing accounting standards from 1 January 2012.
These amendments have been a Statement of compliance endorsed by the EU and do not have a material impact on the Group.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure requires Standard Chartered PLC the Company and its subsidiaries additional disclosures when an asset is transferred but is not together referred to as the Group, equity account the Groups derecognised.
These amendments also require disclosure of assets that interest in associates and proportionately consolidate interests in are derecognised but where the entity continues to have a continuing jointly controlled entities.
The parent company financial statements exposure to the asset after sale.
Refer to note 15 for the Groups present information about the Company as a separate entity and not disclosure with respect to transferred assets.
Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes provides a practical approach for Both the parent company financial statements and the Group financial measuring deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets when it would statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in be dif cult and subjective to determine the expected manner of accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS recovery.
and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as endorsed by the European Union EU.
EU endorsed IFRS may differ from IFRS The Group has early adopted amendments to IAS 1 Presentation published by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB of Financial Statements before their mandatory application date of ifa standard has not been endorsed by the EU.
These amendments change the grouping of items presented within Other Comprehensive Income OCI such that the In publishing the parent company financial statements together with the potential impact that OCI items may have on future pro t or loss can Group financial statements, the Company has taken advantage of the be more easily identi ed.
Items that are eligible for reclassi cation to exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its the income statement at a future point in time for example, upon individual statement of comprehensive income and related notes that derecognition or settlement are presented separately from items which form a part of these approved financial statements.
will never be reclassi ed.
These amendments are required to be applied The following parts of the Risk review form part of these financial retrospectively.
statements: from the start of the Risk management section on page 56 to the end of the Liquidity risk section on page 110, with the exception f Forthcoming accounting standards and interpretations of the Asset backed securities and The impact of Basel III sections on issued but not effective pages 94, 95 and 103 respectively.
At 31 December 2012, a number of accounting standards, interpretations and amendments had been issued by the International b Basis of preparation Accounting Standards Board, which are not yet effective for the Group The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the or Company financial statements.
Those that are expected to have historical cost convention, as modi ed by the revaluation of cash-settled a signi cant effect on the Group and Company financial statements share based payments, available-for-sale assets, and financial assets in future years are discussed below.
and liabilities including derivatives at fair value through pro t or loss.
The use of IFRS and certain IFRIC Interpretations that have yet to be The Company financial statements have been prepared on a historical endorsed by the EU is not permitted.
cost basis, as modi ed by cash-settled share based payments and the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities including derivatives at fair value through pro t or loss.
Accounting standards effective 1 January 2013 The EU has endorsed IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, c Signi cant accounting estimates and judg ments IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements, IAS 28 Investments in Associates In determining the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities, and Joint Ventures, for application from 1 January 2014.
Though this is the Group makes assumptions of the effects of uncertain future events one year later than the mandatory adoption date required by the IASB on those assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
The Groups of 1 January 2013, the EU has permitted early adoption and the Group estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and intends to early apply these five standards from 1 January 2013.
IFRS 10 expectation of future events and are reviewed periodically.
Further and 11, IAS 27 and 28 require retrospective application while IFRS 12 is information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key applied prospectively.
sources of estimation uncertainty, are set out in the relevant disclosure notes for the following areas: IFRS 10 replaces the current guidance on consolidation in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements and SIC-12 Special Loan loss provisioning refer to Risk review on page 73 Purpose Entities.
It introduces a single model of assessing control Taxation refer to note 12 whereby an investor controls an investee when it has the power, exposure to variable returns and the ability to use its power to in uence Fair value of financial instruments refer to note 15 the returns of the investee.
IFRS 10 also includes speci c guidance on Goodwill impairment refer to note 25 fide facto control, protective rights and the determination of whether a decision maker is acting as principal or agent, all of which in uence the Provisions for liabilities and charges refer to note 33 assessment of control.
The application of IFRS 10 is not expected to Retirement bene t obligations refer to note 34 have a material impact on the Group.
Share based payments refer to note 37 IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
It requires all joint ventures to be equity accounted thereby removing the option in IAS 31 d Fiduciary activities for proportionate consolidation.
It also removes the IAS 31 concept of The Group commonly acts as trustee and in other duciary capacities jointly controlled assets.
As a result, the Groups joint venture investment that result in the holding or placing of assets on behalf of individuals, in PT Bank Permata Tbk Permata which is currently proportionately trusts, retirement benefit plans and other institutions.
The assets and consolidated, will be accounted for using the equity method under income arising thereon are excluded from these financial statements, IFRS1 1.
This change is not expected to have a material impact on the as they are not assets and income of the Group.
Group and further details on the Groups interest in Permata are provided in note 23.
Financial statements and notes 205 Accounting standards effective 1 January 2015 1.
Accounting policies continued IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 12 prescribes additional disclosures around signi cant judg ments IFRS 9 will eventually replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and assumptions made in determining whether an entity controls and Measurement and introduce new requirements for the classi cation another entity and has joint control or signi cant in uence over another and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The standard also requires disclosures on the nature and risks completed, IFRS 9 will also introduce a new model for recognising loan associated with interests in unconsolidated structured entities.
These loss provisions based on expected losses, to replace the current model disclosures will be provided in the financial statements for the year in IAS 39, which measures loan loss provisions based on incurred ending 31 December 2013. losses and provide for simpli ed hedge accounting by aligning hedge accounting more closely with an entitys risk management methodology IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement consolidates the guidance on how to in addition to now permitting risk components of nonfinancial items measure fair value, which is presently spread across various IFRSs, into to be hedged.
As at 31 December 2012, only the classi cation and one comprehensive standard.
It introduces the use of an exit price, as measurement phase of IFRS 9 had been published.
The EU has well as extensive disclosure requirements, particularly the inclusion of indicated that it would not endorse IFRS 9 for use until all components nonfinancial instruments into the fair value hierarchy.
IFRS 13 is required have been completed.
Given the uncertainty that surrounds the final to be applied prospectively.
The most signi cant impact of applying form of IFRS 9, the Group is not in a position to quantify the impact IFRS 13 is the mandatory requirement for the fair value of derivative of this accounting standard.
liabilities and other liabilities held at fair value through pro t or loss to take into account an adjustment for an entitys own credit risk.
The precise impact of this adjustment depends on the market conditions Classi cation and measurement and the Groups holdings of financial instruments at the reporting date.
IFRS 9 as published operates a binary classi cation model whereby IFRS 13 has been endorsed by the EU.
financial assets and liabilities are classi ed either at amortised cost or at fair value.
Amortised cost classi cation is only permitted where the IAS 19 Employee Bene ts Revised, introduces signi cant changes in asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets the recognition, presentation and disclosure of fide ned bene t plans.
in order to collect contractual cash ows and where these contractual The most signi cant impact on the Group as a result of these revisions cash ows are solely payment of principal and interest.
In all other cases comes in the form of the rate used to discount the plan assets.
Where the financial asset is classi ed and measured at fair value through pro t this rate is presently based on the expected return on each class of or loss.
Fair value movements on non-trading equity instruments may pension assets, from 1 January 2013, assets will be measured based be presented in other comprehensive income, though these cannot be on an AA rated corporate bond yield, which aligns to the rate at which recycled to the income statement upon disposal of the equity the liability is discounted.
It also makes changes to termination bene ts instrument.
as well as enhancing disclosure requirements and is required to be applied retrospectively.
The effect of these changes on total operating Financial liabilities are required to be measured at fair value or amortised expenses and pre-tax pro t is not expected to be material and will cost as is the case under IAS 39, except that the change in fair value depend on market interest rates, rates of return and the actual mix of relating to own credit is reported within other comprehensive income and not the income statement.
scheme assets at that time.
These revisions to IAS 19 have been endorsed by the EU.
In November 2012, the IASB issued an exposure draft of limited Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure, require amendments to the classi cation and measurement requirements disclosure of the effect or potential effect of netting financial assets and of IFRS 9 which proposed introducing a third classi cation category financial liabilities on an entitys financial position.
This includes financial where, subject to qualifying criteria, fair value changes on debt instruments transacted under enforceable master netting arrangements instruments would be measured through reserves and will be eligible or other similar agreements.
The amendments are required to be for recycling.
applied retrospectively and have been endorsed by the EU.
Impairment Accounting standards effective 1 January 2014 The IASB continues to debate proposals around recognising credit Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation clari es the losses based on an expected loss approach.
Based on its most recent requirements for offsetting financial assets and liabilities and addresses deliberations, the Board has indicated that it will proceed with a inconsistencies noted in current practice when applying the offsetting methodology whereby either 12 months expected losses or lifetime criteria in IAS 32.
These amendments require retrospective application, expected losses would be measured depending on whether certain can be early adopted and have been endorsed by the EU.
criteria for recognising lifetime expected losses are met including whether or not the asset deteriorates below investment grade.
The Investment Entities amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27, IASB is expected to issue a new exposure draft on impairment for requires entities meeting the fide nition of an investment entity to not financial assets held at amortised cost in the first quarter of 2013. consolidate its subsidiaries or apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations when it obtains control of another entity.
An investment entity is fide ned Hedge accounting as an entity that: The IASB has split the hedge accounting phase into two parts: general obtains funds from one or more investor for the purpose of providing hedging and macro hedging.
The Board issued a review draft of a those investor s with investment management services general hedging standard in September 2012, which seeks to deliver a more principles based standard that aligns hedge accounting more commits to its investor s that its business purpose is to invest funds closely with risk management.
This includes, amongst others, assessing solely for returns from capital appreciation, investment income, or hedge effectiveness through qualitative, forwardlooking assessments both rather than using bright lines, and hedging risk components of measures and evaluates the performance of substantially all of its nonfinancial items.
This part is expected to be completed in the first investments on a fair value basis quarter of 2013.
A discussion paper on macro hedging is expected in the first half of 2013.
Entities not meeting the fide nition of an investment entity, including the parent company of an eligible investment entity, will continue to consolidate all subsidiaries.
The investment entity consolidation exemption is not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
This exemption had not been endorsed by the EU as at 31 December 2012.
206 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and 1.
Accounting policies continued its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
g IFRS and Hong Kong accounting requirements At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there is any As required by the Hong Kong Listing Rules, an explanation of the objective evidence of impairment in the investment in associates.
differences in accounting practices between EU endorsed IFRS and Evidence of objective evidence is a significant or prolonged decline in Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards is required to be disclosed.
the fair value of the Groups investment in an associate below its cost is There would be no signi cant differences had these accounts been considered, amongst other factors, in assessing objective evidence of prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting impairment for associates.
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and h Prior year restatements its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the Details of prior year restatements are set out in note 45. associates.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied Jointly controlled entities consistently across the Group and to all periods presented Interests in jointly controlled entities are recognised using proportionate in these financial statements.
consolidation whereby the Groups share of the joint ventures assets, liabilities, income and expenses are combined line by line with similar i Consolidation items in the Groups financial statements.
Further details on the Groups joint venture investment are provided in note 23.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities, including special purpose entities SPEs, Goodwill recognised on jointly controlled entities is assessed similar over which the Group has the power to directly or indirectly govern the to goodwill arising on consolidation of subsidiaries.
financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully Investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively obtains In the Companys financial statements, investment in subsidiaries, control.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases, associates and joint ventures are held at cost less impairment and and where any interest in the subsidiary remains, this is remeasured dividends from pre-acquisition pro ts received prior to 1 January 2009, to its fair value and the change in carrying amount is recognised in the if any.
Details of the Groups principal subsidiaries are given in note 23.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated in the Group SPEs are consolidated when the substance of the relationship between accounts.
the Group and the SPE indicates control by the Group.
Potential indicators of control include an assessment of risks and bene ts in Business combinations respect of the SPEs activities.
This assessment includes consideration The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the of the following conditions: acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
Note 24 provides details on where the SPEs activities are conducted on behalf of the Group business combinations entered into by the Group during 2012. according to speci c business needs, such that the Group obtains The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets bene ts from the SPEs operations given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed where the Group has the decision-making powers to obtain the at the date of exchange, together with the fair value of any contingent majority of the bene ts of the activities of the SPE or, by setting up consideration payable.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair an autopilot mechanism, the Group has delegated these decisionvalue of the Groups share of the identiable net assets and contingent making powers liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill see note 25 for details on goodwill recognised by the Group.
I f the cost of acquisition is less than where the Group has rights to obtain the majority of the bene ts of the the fair value of the net assets and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary SPE and therefore may be exposed to risks incident to the activities of acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
the SPE Where the fair values of the identi able net assets and contingent where the Group retains the majority of the residual or ownership liabilities acquired have been determined provisionally, or where risksr elated to the SPE or its assets in order to obtain bene ts from contingent or deferred consideration is payable, adjustments arising its activities from their subsequent nalisation are not re ected in the income Details on the Groups use of SPEs are set out in note 43. statement if i they arise within 12 months of the acquisition date and ii the adjustments arise from better information about conditions Associates and jointly controlled entities existing at the acquisition date measurement period adjustments.
Such Associates are all entities over which the Group has the ability to adjustments are applied as at the date of acquisition and if applicable, signicantly inuence, but not control, the financial and operating prior period amounts are restated.
All changes that are not policies and procedures generally accompanying a shareholding of measurement period adjustments are reported in income other than between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the voting rights.
Details of the changes in contingent consideration not classi ed as financial Groups interest in associates are provided in note 23. instruments, which are accounted for in accordance with the appropriate accounting policy, and changes in contingent consideration Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of classi ed as equity, which is not remeasured.
accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill identi ed on acquisition net of any Changes in ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss accumulated impairment loss.
of control are treated as transactions between equity holders and are reported in equity.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the previously held movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in reserves.
equity interest is remeasured at the acquisition-date fair value with the The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the resulting gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Financial statements and notes 207 Where the estimates of cash ows have been revised, the carrying 1.
Accounting policies continued amount of the financial asset or liability is adjusted to re ect the actual and revised cash ows, discounted at the instruments original effective j Foreign currencies interest rate.
The adjustment is recognised as interest income or Items included in the Group financial statements for each of the Groups expense in the period in which the revision is made.
entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic If the financial asset has been reclassi ed, subsequent increases in the environment in which the entity operates the functional currency of estimates of future cash receipts as a result of increased recoverability that entity.
Both the Company and Group financial statements are are recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate from the presented in US dollars, which is the functional and presentation date of the change in estimate.
currency of the Company and the presentation currency of the Group.
Once a financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has been Transactions and balances written down as a result of an impairment loss, interest income is Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash using the exchange rates prevailing at the transaction date.
Foreign ows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of , and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of sale financial assets, other than foreign exchange gains and losses from monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are monetary items, are recognised directly in equity, until the financial asset recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities is derecognised or impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss are translated at historical exchange rates if held at historical cost, or previously recognised in equity is recognised in profit or loss.
year-end exchange rates if held at fair value, and the resulting foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in either the income Dividends on equity instruments are recognised in the income statement or shareholders equity depending on the treatment of the statement within other income when the Groups right to receive gain or loss on the asset or liability.
Foreign currency translation Fees and commissions The results and financial position of all the entities included in the Group Fees and commissions are generally recognised on an accrual basis financial statements that have a functional currency different from the when the service has been provided or signi cant act performed.
Loan Groups presentation currency are accounted for as follows: syndication fees are recognised as revenue when the syndication has been completed and the Group retained no part of the loan package for assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated itself, or retained a part at the same effective interest rate as for the other at the closing rate at the balance sheet date participants.
Portfolio and other management advisory and service fees income and expenses for each income statement are translated at are recognised based on the applicable service contracts, usually on a average exchange rates or at rates on the date of the transaction time apportionment basis.
where exchange rates uctuate signi cantly l Cash and cash equivalents all resulting exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 are For the purposes of the cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents recognised as a separate component of equity comprise cash, on demand and overnight balances with central banks On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation unless restricted and balances with less than three months maturity of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other from the date of acquisition, including treasury bills and other eligible currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are bills, loans and advances to banks, and short-term government taken to other comprehensive income.
When a foreign operation is sold securities.
or capital repatriated they are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
m Financial assets and liabilities classi cation Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a excludingderivatives foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity The Group classies its financial assets into the following measurement and translated at the closing rate.
categories: a financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss: b loans and receivables: c held-to-maturity: and d available-for-sale.
Financial liabilities are classi ed as either held at fair value through pro t k Income recognition or loss, or at amortised cost.
Management determines the classication Income from financial instruments of its financial assets and liabilities at initial recognition or, where Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial applicable, at the time of reclassi cation.
Details of financial assets and instruments held at fair value through profit or loss are included in the liabilities held by the Group are provided in Notes 15, 16 and 17. income statement in the period in which they arise.
Contractual interest income and expense on financial instruments held at fair value through Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit pro t or loss are recognised within net interest income.
or loss This category has two sub-categories: financial assets and liabilities For available-for-sale assets and financial assets and liabilities held at held for trading, and those designated at fair value through profit or loss amortised cost, interest income and interest expense are recognised at inception.
A financial asset or liability is classied as trading if acquired using the effective interest method.
principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised Financial assets and liabilities may be designated at fair value through cost of a financial asset or a financial liability and of allocating the interest pro t or loss when: income or interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash payments the designation eliminates or signi cantly reduces a measurement or or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or, when recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial assets or liabilities on a different basis: or asset or financial liability.
When calculating the effective interest rate, the a group of financial assets and or liabilities is managed and its Group estimates cash ows considering all contractual terms of the performance evaluated on a fair value basis: or financial instrument for example, prepayment options but does not consider future credit losses.
The calculation includes all fees paid the assets or liabilities include embedded derivatives and such or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part derivatives are required to be recognised separately.
of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts.
208 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued Where representative prices are unreliable because of illiquid markets, 1.
Accounting policies continued the determination of fair value may require estimation of certain parameters, which are calibrated against industry standards and For certain loans and advances and debt securities with xed rates observable market data, or the use of valuation models that are based of interest, interest rate swaps have been acquired with the intention on observable market dat a. of signi cantly reducing interest rate risk.
To signi cantly reduce the accounting mismatch between assets and liabilities and measurement Equity investments that do not have an observable market price are fair bases, these loans and advances and debt securities have been valued by applying various valuation techniques, such as earnings designated at fair value through pro t or loss.
Details of financial assets multiples, net assets multiples, discounted cash ows, and industry designated at fair value are disclosed in notes 15 and 16. valuation benchmarks.
These techniques are generally applied prior to any initial public offering, after which an observable market price The Group has also designated certain financial liabilities at fair value becomes available.
Disposal of such investments is generally by market through pro t or loss where either the liabilities: trades or private sales.
have xed rates of interest and interest rate swaps or other interest rate derivatives have been entered into with the intention of Initial recognition signi cantly reducing interest rate risk: or Purchases and sales of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss, and financial assets classi ed as held-to-maturity are exposed to foreign currency risk and derivatives have been and available-for-sale are initially recognised on the trade-date the date acquired with the intention of signi cantly reducing exposure to on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Loans are market changes: or recognised when cash is advanced to the borrowers.
have been acquired to fund trading asset portfolios or assets, or All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value, which is where the assets and liabilities are managed, and performance normally the transaction price plus, for those financial assets and evaluated, on a fair value basis for a documented risk management liabilities not carried at fair value through pro t and loss, directly or investment strategy.
Designation of certain liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss In certain circumstances, the initial fair value may be based on a signi cantly reduces the accounting mismatch between fair value valuation technique that may lead to the recognition of pro ts or losses and amortised cost expense recognition.
Details of financial liabilities at the time of initial recognition.
However, these pro ts or losses can only designated at fair value are disclosed in note 15. be recognised when the valuation technique used is based solely on the observable market.
In those cases where the initially recognised fair Loans and receivables value is based on a valuation model that uses inputs that are not Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or observable in the market, the difference between the transaction price determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and it is and the valuation model is not recognised immediately in the income expected that substantially all of the initial investment will be recovered, statement.
other than because of credit deterioration.
The difference is amortised to the income statement until the inputs become observable, or the transaction matures or is terminated.
Held-to-maturity Held-to-maturity assets are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments and xed maturities that the Groups Subsequent measurement management has the intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value, with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value taken directly to the net trading income line in the Available-for-sale income statement.
Available-for-sale assets are those non-derivative financial assets intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be sold Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently carried at fair value, in response to liquidity requirements or changes in interest rates, with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value taken to the exchange rates, commodity prices or equity prices.
available-for-sale reserve within equity until the asset is sold, or is impaired, when the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income Further details on the application of these policies is set out in note 15. statement.
Financial liabilities held at amortised cost Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity financial assets are Financial liabilities, which include borrowings, not classi ed held at fair subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest value through pro t or loss are classi ed as amortised cost instruments.
Preference shares that carry a mandatory coupon that represents a Financial liabilities are subsequently stated at amortised cost, with any market rate of interest at the issue date, or that are redeemable on a difference between proceeds net of directly attributable transaction specic date or at the option of the shareholder are classied as financial costs and the redemption value recognised in the income statement liabilities and are presented in other borrowed funds.
The dividends on over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
these preference shares are recognised in the income statement as In addition to these instruments, the carrying value of a financial interest expense on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest instrument carried at amortised cost that is the hedged item in a method.
qualifying fair value hedge relationship is adjusted by the fair value gain or loss attributable to the hedged risk.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a Impairment of financial assets liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is length transaction.
objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is The fair values of quoted financial assets and liabilities in active markets impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and are based on current prices.
If the market for a financial instrument, and impairment losses are incurred if, and only if, there is objective evidence for unlisted securities, is not active, the Group establishes fair value by of impairment as a result of one or more events occurring after the initial using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length recognition of the asset a loss event, and that loss event or events has transactions, discounted cash ow analysis, option pricing models and an impact on the estimated future cash ows of the financial asset or other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Financial statements and notes 209 To the extent a loan is irrecoverable, it is written off against the related 1.
Accounting policies continued provision for loan impairment.
Such loans are written off after all the necessary procedures have been completed, it is decided that there is The Group considers the following factors in assessing objective no realistic probability of recovery and the amount of the loss has been evidence of impairment: determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off whether the counterparty is in default of principal or interest payments decrease the amount of the provision for loan impairment in the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss when a counterparty les for bankruptcy protection or the local decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event equivalent and this would avoid or delay discharge of its obligation occurring after the impairment was recognised such as an where the Group les to have the counterparty declared bankrupt improvement in the debtors credit rating, the previously recognised or les a similar order in respect of a credit obligation impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account.
The amount of the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
where the Group consents to a restructuring of the obligation, resulting in a diminished financial obligation, demonstrated by a Further details on the application of these policies are set out in the Risk material forgiveness of debt or postponement of scheduled payments review on pages 56 to 115. where the Group sells a credit obligation at a material credit-related Available-for-sale assets economic loss: or Where objective evidence of impairment exists for available-for-sale where there are observable data indicating that there is a measurable financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference decrease in the estimated future cash ows of a group of financial between the amortised cost and the current fair value, less any assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identi ed with speci c impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the individual financial assets.
income statement is reclassi ed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value Assets carried at amortised cost of an equity security below its cost is considered, amongst other factors, The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment in assessing objective evidence of impairment for equity securities.
exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classied as individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related significant.
to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, the If the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment exists impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
Impairment for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk not reversed through the income statement.
characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an Renegotiated loans impairment loss is or continues to be recognised, are not included Loan whose original terms have been modi ed, including those subject in a collective assessment of impairment.
to forbearance strategies, are considered renegotiated loans.
If the renegotiations are on terms that are not consistent with those readily If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a loan and available on the market, this provides objective evidence of impairment receivable or a held-to-maturity asset has been incurred, the amount and the loan is assessed accordingly.
of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred, discounted at the Offsetting financial instruments assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the the loss is recognised in the income statement.
If a loan and receivable recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or or held-to-maturity asset has a variable interest rate, the discount rate to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined under the contract.
As a practical expedient, the Group may Reclassi cations measure impairment on the basis of an instruments fair value using an Reclassi cations of financial assets, other than as set out below, or of observable market price.
financial liabilities between measurement categories are not permitted following initial recognition.
The calculation of the present value of the estimated future cash ows of a collateralised financial asset reects the cash ows that may result Held for trading non-derivative financial assets can only be transferred from foreclosure, less costs for obtaining and selling the collateral, out of the held at fair value through pro t or loss category in the following whether or not foreclosure is probable.
Further details on collateral held circumstances: to the available-for-sale category, where, in rare by the Group is discussed in the Risk review on page 72.
For the circumstances, they are no longer held for the purpose of selling or purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, financial assets are repurchasing in the near term: or to the loan and receivables category, grouped on the basis of similar credit risk characteristics i. e. on the where they are no longer held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing basis of the Groups grading process which considers asset type, in the near term and they would have met the fide nition of a loan and industry, geographic location, collateral type, past-due status and other receivable at the date of reclassi cation and the Group has the intent relevant factors.
These characteristics are relevant to the estimation and ability to hold the assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
of future cash ows for groups of such assets being indicative of the Financial assets can only be transferred out of the available-for-sale debtors ability to pay all amounts due according to the contractual category to the loan and receivables category where they would have terms of the assets being evaluated.
met the fide nition of a loan and receivable at the date of reclassi cation Future cash ows in a group of financial assets that are collectively and the Group has the intent and ability to hold the assets for the evaluated for impairment are based on the probability of default inherent foreseeable future or until maturity.
within the portfolio of impaired loans or receivables and the historical Held-to-maturity assets must be reclassi ed to the available-for-sale loss experience for assets with credit risk characteristics similar to those category if the portfolio becomes tainted following the sale of other than in the group.
Historical loss experience is adjusted on the basis of an insigni cant amount of held-to-maturity assets prior to their maturity.
current observable data to reect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical loss experience is based, and to remove the effects of conditions in the historical period that do not exist currently.
210 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued The method of recognising the resulting fair value gain or loss depends 1.
Accounting policies continued on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain Financial assets are reclassi ed at their fair value on the date of derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or reclassi cation.
For financial assets reclassi ed out of the availableliabilities or rm commitments fair value hedge : 2 hedges of highly forsale category into loans and receivables, any gain or loss on those probable future cash ows attributable to a recognised asset or liability, assets recognised in shareholders equity prior to the date of or a forecast transaction cash ow hedge : or 3 hedges of the net reclassi cation is amortised to the income statement over the remaining investment of a foreign operation net investment hedges.
life of the financial asset, using the effective interest method.
Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this way provided certain criteria are met.
Sale and repurchase agreements Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements repos remain on the The Group and Company documents, at the inception of the balance sheet: the counterparty liability is included in deposits by banks, transaction, the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged or customer accounts, as appropriate.
Securities purchased under items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for agreements to resell reverserepos are recorded as loans and undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its advances to other banks or customers, as appropriate.
The difference assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of between sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly over the life of the agreements using the effective interest method.
effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash ows of hedged items.
Securities lent to counterparties are also retained in the financial statements.
Securities borrowed are not recognised in the financial Details of the derivative financial instruments held by the Group, statements u nless these are sold to third parties, in which case the including those held for hedge accounting are provided in note 17. purchase and sale are recorded with the gain or loss included in trading income.
Fair value hedge Details of repo and reverse-repo transactions entered into by the Group Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify are provided in note 15. as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
If the hedge no longer meets the Derecognition criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortised ows from the financial assets have expired or where the Group has to the income statement over the period to maturity or derecognition.
transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
If substantially all the risks and rewards have been neither retained nor transferred and the Group has retained control, the assets continue Cash ow hedge to be recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedging instruments is recognised Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised A financial liability is extinguished when the obligation is discharged, immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassi ed to the income statement If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the balance in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
sheet, and the difference between the carrying amount of the liability and the consideration paid is included in Other income.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised n Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value in response to statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, changes in interest rates, financial instrument prices, commodity prices, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately foreign exchange rates, credit risk and indices.
Derivatives are transferred to the income statement.
categorised as trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments.
Net investment hedge All derivatives are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for value, with all revaluation gains recognised in pro t and loss except similarly to cash ow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument where cash ow or net investment hedging has been achieved, in which relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in the case the effective portion of changes in fair value is recognised within translation reserve: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion other comprehensive income.
is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses Fair values may be obtained from quoted market prices in active accumulated in equity are reclassi ed to the income statement when markets, recent market transactions, and valuation techniques, the foreign operation is disposed of.
including discounted cash ow models and option pricing models, Further details on the application of these policies are set out in note 17. as appropriate.
Where the initially recognised fair value of a derivative contract is based on a valuation model that uses inputs that are Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting not observable in the market, it follows the same initial recognition Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments not qualifying for accounting policy as for other financial assets and liabilities.
All hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
o Leases Certain derivatives embedded in other financial instruments, such as the conversion option in a convertible bond held, are valued as separate Where a Group company is the lessee derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks are not closely The leases entered into by the Group are primarily operating leases.
The related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not carried total payments made under operating leases are charged to the income at fair value through pro t or loss.
These embedded derivatives are statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
measured at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in the When an operating lease is terminated before the lease period has income statement.
Embedded derivatives continue to be presented expired, any payment required to be made to the lessor by way of with the host contract and are not separately disclosed or included penalty is recognised as an expense in the period in which termination within derivatives.
Financial statements and notes 211 Property, plant and equipment 1.
Accounting policies continued Land and buildings comprise mainly branches and of ces.
All property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation Where the Group is a lessee under finance leases, the leased assets are and impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly capitalised and included in Property, plant and equipment with a attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
corresponding liability to the lessor recognised in Other liabilities.
Finance charges payable are recognised over the period of the lease Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or are based on the interest rate implicit in the lease to give a constant periodic recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable rate of return.
that future economic benets associated with the item will ow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other Where a Group company is the lessor repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during When assets are leased to customers under finance leases, the present the financial period in which they are incurred.
value of the lease payments is recognised as a receivable.
The Freehold land is not depreciated although it is subject to impairment difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the testing.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line receivable is recognised as unearned finance income.
Lease income is method to allocate their cost to their residual values over their estimated recognised over the term of the lease using the net investment method useful lives, as follows: before tax, which reects a constant periodic rate of return ignoring tax cash ows.
Buildings up to 50 years Assets leased to customers under operating leases are included within Leasehold improvements life of lease, up to 50 years Property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives.
Rental income on these leased assets is recognised in the income Equipment and motor vehicles three to 15 years statement on a straight-line basis unless another systematic basis is Aircraft and ships up to 25 years more representative.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted p Intangible and tangible xed assets if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
At each balance sheet date, assets are also assessed for indicators of impairment.
In the event Goodwill that an assets carrying amount is determined to be greater than its Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair recoverable amount, the asset is written down immediately to the value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets and contingent recoverable amount.
liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries and joint ventures Gains and losses on disposals are included in the income statement.
is included in Intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in Investments in associates.
Goodwill included in intangible q Taxation assets is assessed at each balance sheet date for impairment and Income tax payable on profits is based on the applicable tax law in each carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and jurisdiction and is recognised as an expense in the period in which losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of profits arise.
goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Detailed calculations are performed based on discounting expected pre-tax cash ows of the relevant cash Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary generating units and discounting these at an appropriate discount rate, differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and the determination of which requires the exercise of judg ment.
Goodwill their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have testing.
Cash generating units represent the lowest level within the been enacted or substantially enacted as at the balance sheet date, and Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management that are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is purposes.
These are smaller than the Groups reportable segments as realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
set out in note 2 as the Group views its reportable segments on a global Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future basis.
Note 25 sets out the major cash-generating units to which taxable pro t will be available against which the temporary differences goodwill has been allocated.
Current and deferred tax relating to items that are charged or credited Acquired intangibles directly to equity is credited or charged directly to equity and is At the date of acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, intangible assets subsequently recognised in the income statement together with the that are deemed separable and that arise from contractual or other legal current or deferred gain or loss.
rights are capitalised and included within the net identi able assets acquired.
These intangible assets are initially measured at fair value, which re ects market expectations of the probability that the future r Provisions economic bene ts embodied in the asset will ow to the entity, and Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognised when are amortised on the basis of their expected useful lives 4 to 16 years.
the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of At each balance sheet date, these assets are assessed for indicators of past events: it is more likely than not that an outow of resources will be impairment.
In the event that an assets carrying amount is determined required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably to be greater than its recoverable amount, the asset is written down estimated.
Where a liability arises based on participation in a market at a immediately.
speci ed date such as the UK bank levy, the obligation is recognised in the financial statements on that date and is not accrued over the period.
Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic software.
Costs associated with the development of software are capitalised where it is probable that it will generate future economic bene ts in excess of its cost.
Computer software costs are amortised on the basis of expected useful life three to five years.
Costs associated with maintaining software are recognised as an expense as incurred.
At each balance sheet date, these assets are assessed for indicators of impairment.
In the event that an assets carrying amount is determined to be greater than its recoverable amount, the asset is written down immediately.
212 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs 1.
Accounting policies continued are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
s Employee benets Cash-settled awards are revalued at each balance sheet date and a Retirement bene t obligations liability recognised on the balance sheet for all unpaid amounts, with any The Group operates a number of pension and other post-retirement changes in fair value charged or credited to staff costs in the income bene t plans around the world, including fide ned contribution plans and statement until the awards are exercised.
Where forfeitures occur prior fide ned bene t plans.
to vesting that are attributable to factors other than a failure to satisfy market-based performance conditions, the cumulative charge incurred For dened contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly up to the date of forfeiture is credited to the income statement.
or privately administered pension plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis, and such amounts are charged to operating expenses.
The Company records the value of the equity settled awards as a The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions deemed investment in subsidiaries.
Any revaluation related to cashhave been paid.
settled awards is recorded as an amount due from subsidiary undertakings.
For funded fide ned bene t plans, the liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the dened benefit obligation at the balance Details of the Groups sharebased compensation scheme are set sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
For unfunded fide ned out in note 37. bene t plans the liability recognised at the balance sheet date is the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation.
The dened benefit t Share capital obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or projected unit method.
The present value of the dened benefit options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash proceeds.
outows using an interest rate equal to the yield on high-quality Dividends on ordinary shares and preference shares classi ed as equity corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the are recognised in equity in the period in which they are declared.
benets will be paid, and that have a term to maturity approximating to the term of the related pension liability.
Where the Company or other members of the consolidated Group purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid is Actuarial gains and losses that arise are recognised in shareholders deducted from the total shareholders equity of the Group and or of the equity and presented in the statement of other comprehensive income Company as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
Where such in the period they arise.
Past service costs are recognised immediately shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received to the extent that bene ts are vested and are otherwise recognised over is included in shareholders equity of the Group and or the Company.
the average period until bene ts are vested on a straight-line basis.
Current service costs and any past service costs, together with the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities, offset by the expected return on plan assets where applicable, are charged to operating expenses.
Details of the Groups retirement bene t obligations are provided in note 34.
Share-based compensation The Group operates equity-settled and cash-settled share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
For deferred share awards granted as part of an annual performance award, the expense is recognised over the period from the start of the performance period to the vesting date.
For example, the expense for awards granted in 2013 i n respect of 201 2 performance, which vest in 2014- 201 6, is recognised as an expense over the period from 1 January 201 2 to the vesting dates in 201 4-201 6.
For all other awards the expense is recognised over the period from the date of grant to the vesting date.
For equity-settled awards, the total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options at the date of grant, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and growth targets.
The fair value of equity instruments granted is based on market prices, if available, at the date of grant.
In the absence of market prices, the fair value of the instruments is estimated using an appropriate valuation technique, such as a binomial option pricing model.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
Forfeitures prior to vesting attributable to factors other than the failure to satisfy a non-market vesting condition are treated as a cancellation and the remaining unamortised charge is debited to the income statement at the time of cancellation.
Segmental Information The Group is organised on a worldwide basis for management and reporting purposes into two main business segments: Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking.
The products offered by these segments are summarised under Income by product below.
The businesses focus is on broadening and deepening the relationship with clients and customers, rather than maximising a particular product line.
Hence the Group evaluates segmental performance based on overall pro t or loss before taxation excluding corporate items not allocated and not individual product pro tability.
Product revenue information is used as a way of assessing client and customer needs and trends in the market place.
The strategies adopted by Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking need to be adapted to local market and regulatory requirements, which is the responsibility of country management teams.
While not the primary driver of the business, country performance is an important part of the Groups matrix structure and is also used to evaluate performance and reward staff.
Corporate items not allocated are not aggregated into the businesses because of the one-off nature of these items.
The Groups entity-wide disclosure, which includes pro t before tax, net interest margin and structure of the Groups deposits, comprises geographic areas, classi ed by the location of the customer, except for Financial Market products, which are classi ed by the location of the dealer.
Transactions between the business segments and geographic areas are carried out on an arms length basis.
Apart from the entities that have been acquired in the last two years, Group central expenses have been distributed between the business segments and geographic areas in proportion to their direct costs, and the bene t of the Groups capital has been distributed between segments in proportion to their average risk-we ighted assets.
In the year in which an acquisition is made, the Group does not charge or allocate the bene t of the Groups capital.
The distribution of central expenses is phased in over two years, based on the estimate of central management costs associated with the acquisition.
By class of business 2012 2011 Total Corporate Total Corporate Consumer Wholesale reportable items not Consumer Wholesale reportable items not 2 3 Banking Banking segments allocated Total Banking Banking segments allocated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Internal income 16 16 44 44 Net interest income 4,923 6,087 11,010 11,010 4,628 5,525 10,153 10,153 Other income 2,295 5,676 7,971 90 8,061 2,207 5,277 7,484 7,484 Operating income 7,202 11,779 18,981 90 19,071 6,791 10,846 17,637 17,637 Operating expenses 4,723 5,999 10,722 174 10,896 4,605 5,147 9,752 165 9,917 Operating pro t before impairment losses and taxation 2,479 5,780 8,259 84 8,175 2,186 5,699 7,885 165 7,720 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 697 524 1,221 1,221 524 384 908 908 Other impairment 4 120 124 70 194 12 99 111 111 Pro t from associates 116 116 74 74 Pro t before taxation 1,778 5,136 6,914 38 6,876 1,650 5,216 6,866 91 6,775 4 Total assets employed 143, 250 491, 409 634, 659 1, 859 636, 518 135,154 455,562 590,716 1,970 592,686 Total liabilities 4 employed 189, 779 399, 454 589, 23 3 1, 230 590, 463 172,710 377,465 550,175 1,136 551,311 Other segment items: 1 Capital expenditure 210 2, 042 2,252 2,252 178 1,397 1,575 1,575 Depreciation 148 263 411 411 169 199 368 368 Investment in associates 953 953 903 903 Amortisation of intangible assets 83 174 257 257 73 180 253 253 1 Includes capital expenditure in Wholesale Banking of $1, 788 million in respect of operating lease assets 2011: $1,049 million 2 Relates to pro ts realised from repurchase of subordinated liabilities, UK bank levy, impairment of investment in associates and the Groups share of pro t from associates 3 Relates to UK bank levy, and the Groups share of pro t from associates 4 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 45 214 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Segmental Information continued The following table details entity-wide operating income by product: 2012 2011 $million $million Consumer Banking Cards, Personal Loans and Unsecured Lending 2,707 2,422 Wealth Management 1,275 1,272 Deposits 1,566 1,409 Mortgage and Auto Finance 1,390 1,478 Other 264 210 7,202 6,791 Wholesale Banking Lending and Portfolio Management 891 841 Transaction Banking Trade 1,940 1,595 Cash Management and Custody 1,731 1,652 Global Markets Financial Markets 3,663 3,688 Asset and Liability Management ALM 849 921 Corporate Finance 2,222 1,873 Principal Finance 483 276 7,217 6,758 11,779 10,846 Entity-wide information By geography The Group manages its reportable business segments on a global basis.
The operations are based in eight main geographic areas.
The UK is the home country of the Company.
Other capital expenditure comprises additions to property and equipment note 26 and software related intangibles note 25 including any post-acquisition additions made by the acquired entities Financial statements and notes 215 2.
Segmental Information continued 2011 Middle Other East Americas Hong Asia & Other UK & 3 3 1 Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Internal income 70 98 66 19 96 51 85 157 Net interest income 1,532 1,075 1,430 2,169 889 1,146 760 1,152 10,153 Fees and commissions income, net 752 509 197 760 423 443 346 616 4,046 Net trading income 559 571 77 404 275 488 172 99 2,645 Other operating income 136 129 80 159 122 91 19 57 793 Operating income 3,049 2,186 1,718 3,511 1,805 2,219 1,382 1,767 17,637 Operating expenses 1,395 1,105 1,335 2,065 829 1,085 714 1,389 9,917 Operating pro t before impairment losses and taxation 1,654 1,081 383 1,446 976 1,134 668 378 7,720 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 103 48 198 135 112 286 24 2 908 Other impairment 31 13 31 60 14 16 8 111 Pro t from associates 73 1 74 Pro t before taxation 1,551 1,002 172 1,415 804 834 628 369 6,775 2 Capital expenditure 781 221 25 74 60 20 25 369 1,575 1 Americas UK & Europe includes operating income of $799 million in respect of the UK, the Companys country of domicile 2 Includes capital expenditure in Hong Kong of $724 million and in the UK of $325 million in respect of operating lease assets.
Other capital expenditure comprises additions to property and equipment note 26 and software related intangibles note 25 including any post-acquisition additions made by the acquired entities 3 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 45 Net interest margin and yield 2012 2011 $million $million Net interest margin % 2.3 2.3 Net interest yield % 2.2 2.2 Average interest earning assets 488,178 441,892 Average interest bearing liabilities 461, 480 410,602 Net interest margin by geography 2012 Middle Other East Americas IntraHong Asia & Other UK & group 1 Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe tax assets Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Total assets employed 130,60 1 107,97 3 62,90 3 117, 786 36,93 5 46,2 19 20, 890 179, 516 66, 305 636, 518 Of which : Loans to 2 customers 53,330 51,318 36,165 58,977 23,994 25, 200 11,304 28, 575 288, 863 Average interest-earning assets 106,57 4 76,28 8 54,069 105,083 29,747 36,92 8 18,260 113,626 52,397 488,178 Net interest income 1,716 1,144 1,335 2,461 1,050 1,230 976 1,098 11,010 Net interest margin % 1.6 1.5 2.5 2.3 3.5 3.3 5.3 1.0 2.3 1 Americas, UK & Europe includes total assets employed of $108,77 5 million in respect of the UK, the Companys country of domicile 2011 Middle Other East Americas IntraHong Asia & Other UK & group 1 Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe tax assets Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million 3 Total assets employed 117,700 104,021 63,134 113,471 42,607 56,223 20,403 148,064 72,937 592,686 Of which : Loans to 2, 3 customers 50,996 43,827 38,072 53,979 23,686 23,299 11,231 26,688 271,778 Average interest-earning assets 91,923 67,952 57,031 93,333 31,299 33,851 14,569 96,396 44,462 441,892 Net interest income 1,631 1,011 1,348 2,185 985 1,202 836 955 10,153 Net interest margin % 1.8 1.5 2.4 2.3 3.1 3.6 5.7 1.0 2.3 1 Americas UK & Europe includes total assets employed of $93,891 million in respect of the UK, the Companys country of domicile 2 The analysis of loans and advances to customers is based on the location of customer rather than booking location of the loan 3 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 45 216 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Interest income 2012 2011 $million $million Balances at central banks 161 159 Treasury bills 914 790 Loans and advances to banks 1,214 1,251 Loans and advances to customers 13,588 12,296 Listed debt securities 781 749 Unlisted debt securities 1,523 1,269 Accrued on impaired assets discount unwind 77 70 18,258 16,584 Of which from financial instruments held at: Amortised cost 14,777 13,419 Available-for-sale 2,425 2,259 Held at fair value through pro t or loss 1,056 906 4.
Interest expense 2012 2011 $million $million Deposits by banks 685 429 Customer accounts: Interest bearing current accounts and savings deposits 1,336 1,450 Time deposits 3,507 3,130 Debt securities in issue 1,138 948 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds: Wholly repayable within five years 3 13 Other 579 461 7,248 6,431 Of which from financial instruments held at: Amortised cost 6,533 5,953 Held at fair value through pro t or loss 715 478 5.
Fees and commissions 2012 2011 $million $million Consumer Banking Cards, Personal Loans and Unsecured Lending 392 391 Wealth Management 880 868 Deposits 234 239 Mortgages and Auto Finance 93 92 Others 80 44 1,679 1,634 Wholesale Banking Lending and Portfolio Management 91 72 Transaction Banking 1,449 1,409 Financial Markets 230 142 Corporate Finance 670 766 Others 2 23 2,442 2,412 Net fee and commission income 4,121 4,046 Total fee income arising from financial instruments that are not fair valued through pro t or loss of $1,594 million 2011: $1,380 million and arising from trust and other duciary activities of $119 million 2011: $155 million.
Total fee expense arising from financial instruments that are not fair valued through pro t or loss of $83 million 2011: $74 million and arising from trust and other duciary activities of $21 million 2011: $22 million.
218 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 6.
Net trading income 2012 2011 $million $million Gains less losses on instruments held for trading: 1 Foreign currency 1,854 1,789 Trading securities 730 23 Interest rate derivatives 180 333 Credit and other derivatives 153 632 2,611 2,777 Gains less losses from fair value hedging: Gains less losses from fair value hedged items 10 808 Gains less losses from fair value hedging instruments 13 795 3 13 Gains less losses on instruments designated at fair value: Financial assets designated at fair value through pro t or loss 229 52 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through pro t or loss 256 438 Derivatives managed with financial instruments designated at fair value through pro t or loss 167 267 140 119 2,748 2,645 1 Includes foreign currency gains and losses arising on the translation of foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities 7.
Other operating income 2012 2011 $million $million Other operating income includes: Gains less losses on disposal of financial assets: Available-for-sale 339 267 Loans and receivables 37 27 Dividend income 92 73 Gains arising on repurchase of subordinated liabilities 90 Gains arising on assets fair valued at acquisition 3 12 Rental income from operating lease assets 347 268 Gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment 100 52 Gain arising on sale of business 15 Gains arising on assets fair valued at acquisition relates to acquisitions completed prior to 1 January 2010, and primarily consists of recoveries of fair value adjustments on loans and advances.
Operating expenses 2012 2011 $million $million Staff costs: Wages and salaries 4, 955 4,973 Social security costs 148 155 Other pension costs note 34 302 282 Share based payment costs note 37 374 392 Other staff costs 805 828 6, 584 6,630 Variable compensation is included within wages and salaries.
Further details are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on page 163.
Other staff costs include training and travel costs.
Operating expenses continued The following tables summarise the number of employees within the Group: 2012 Consumer Wholesale Support Banking Banking Services Total At 31 December 55,237 19,752 14,069 89,058 Average for the year 54,650 19,565 13,354 87,569 2011 Consumer Wholesale Support Banking Banking Services Total At 31 December 54,604 19,517 12,744 86,865 Average for the year 53,242 19,236 12,758 85,236 The company employed nil staff at 31 December 2012 2011: nil and it incurred costs of $3 million 2011: $3 million.
Details of directors pay and bene ts and interests in shares are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 160 to 185.
Transactions with directors, of cers and other related parties are disclosed in note 46.
Premises and equipment expenses 2012 2011 $million $million Rental of premises 438 420 Other premises and equipment costs 417 410 Rental of computers and equipment 31 32 886 862 General administrative expenses 2012 2011 $million $million UK bank levy 174 165 Settlements with US authorities 667 Other general administrative expenses 1, 917 1,639 2, 758 1,804 The UK bank levy is applied on the chargeable equities and liabilities on the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
Key exclusions from chargeable equities and liabilities include Tier 1 capital, insured or guaranteed retail deposits, repos secured on certain sovereign debt and liabilities subject to netting.
T he rate of the levy for 2012 is 0.088 per cent for chargeable shortterm liabilities, with a lower rate of 0.044 per cent generally applied to chargeable equity and longterm liabilities i. e. liabilities with a remaining maturity greater than one year.
The rate for 2013 has been increased to 0.13 per cent for qualifying liabilities, with a longterm rate of 0.065 per cent.
During 2012, the Group reached settlements with the US authorities regarding US sanctions compliance in the period 2001 to 2007, involving a Consent Order by the New York Department of Financial Services NYDFS, a Cease and Desist Order by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York FRBNY, Deferred Prosecution Agreements with each of the Department of Justice and with the District Attorney of New York and a Settlement Agreement with the Of ce of Foreign Assets Control.
Auditors remuneration Auditors remuneration in relation to the Group statutory audit amounts to $ 3.
8 million 2011: $3.6 million and is included within other general administration expenses.
The following fees were payable by the Group to their principal auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its associates together KPMG : 2012 2011 $million $million Audit fees for the Group statutory audit: Fees relating to the current year 3.8 3.6 Fees payable to KPMG for other services provided to the Group: Audit of Standard Chartered PLC subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation Fees relating to the current year 10.7 10.5 Total audit and audit related fees 14.5 14.1 Other services pursuant to legislation 2.6 2.5 Tax services 0.9 0.6 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.3 0.1 All other services 0.4 1.7 Total fees payable 18.7 19.0 220 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 8.
Operating expenses continued The following is a description of the type of services included within the categories listed above: Audit fees are in respect of fees payable to KPMG Audit Plc for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Group and the separate financial statements of Standard Chartered PLC.
They exclude a mounts payable for the audit of Standard Chartered PLCs subsidiaries and amounts payable to KPMG Audit Plcs associates.
These amounts have been included in Fees payable to KPMG for other services provided to the Group Other services pursuant to legislation include services for assurance and other services that are in relation to statutory and regulatory lings, including comfort letters and interim reviews Tax services include tax compliance services and tax advisory services Services related to corporate finance transactions include fees payable to KPMG for transactionrelated work irrespective of whether the Group is vendor or purchaser, such as acquisition due diligence and long-form reports All other services include other assurance and advisory services such as translation services, ad hoc accounting advice, reporting accountants work on capital raising and review of financial models Expenses incurred during the provision of services and which have been reimbursed by the Group are included within auditors remuneration.
In addition to the above, KPMG estimate they have been paid fees of less than $0.
1 million 2011: $0.1 million by parties other than the Group but where the Group is connected with the contracting party and therefore may be involved in appointing KPMG.
These fees arise from services such as the audit of the Groups pension schemes.
Fees payable to KPMG for non-audit services for Standard Chartered PLC are not separately disclosed because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for the Group.
Depreciation and amortisation 2012 2011 $million $million Premises 127 123 Equipment: Operating lease assets 148 100 Others 136 145 Intangibles: Software 190 184 Acquired on business combinations 67 69 668 621 10.
Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions The following table reconciles the charge for impairment provisions on loans and advances to the total impairment charge and other credit risk provisions: 2012 2011 $million $million Net charge against pro t on loans and advances: Individual impairment charge 1,247 867 Portfolio impairment release charge 27 14 1,220 881 Provisions related to credit commitments 5 2 Impairment release charge relating to debt securities classi ed as loans and receivables 4 25 Total impairment losses and other credit risk provisions 1,221 908 An analysis of impairment provisions on loans and advances by geography and business is set out within the Risk review on pages 74 to 91.
Other impairment 2012 2011 $million $million Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets: Asset-bac ked securities 3 7 Other debt securities 16 52 Equity shares 134 42 115 101 Impairment of investment in associates 70 Other 34 40 219 141 1 Recovery of impairment on disposal of equity instruments 25 30 194 111 1 Relates to private equity instruments sold during the year that had impairment provisions raised against them in previous periods 12.
Taxation Determining the Groups taxation charge for the year involves a degree of estimation and judgement.
Analysis of taxation charge in the year: 2012 2011 $million $million The charge for taxation based upon the pro ts for the year comprises: Current tax: United Kingdom corporation tax at 24.5 per cent 2011: 26.5 per cent : 1 Current tax on income for the year 110 1,037 Adjustments in respect of prior periods including double taxation relief 10 101 1 Double taxation relief 9 912 Foreign tax: Current tax on income for the year 1, 711 1,645 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 4 8 1, 818 1,677 Deferred tax: Origination reversal of temporary differences 65 207 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 8 42 73 165 Tax on pro ts on ordinary activities 1,891 1,842 Effective tax rate 27.5% 27.2% The UK corporation tax rate was reduced from 26 per cent to 24 per cent with an effective date of 1 April 2012, giving a blended rate of 24.5 per cent for the year.
This change has reduced the UK deferred tax asset by $24 million.
Foreign taxation includes taxation on Hong Kong pro ts of $189 million 2011: $170 million provided at a rate of 16.5 per cent 2011: 16.5 per cent on the pro ts assessable in Hong Kong.
Deferred taxation includes origination reversal of temporary differences in Hong Kong pro ts of $3 million 2011: $28 million provided at a rate of 16.5 per cent 2011: 16.5 per cent on the pro ts assessable in Hong Kong.
The taxation charge for the year is higher than the blended rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom, 24.5 per cent.
The differences are explained below: 2012 2011 $million $million Pro t on ordinary activities before taxation 6,876 6,775 Tax at 24.5 per cent 2011: 26.5 per cent 1,685 1,795 Effects of: Tax free income 263 117 Lower tax rates on overseas earnings 338 200 Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 386 322 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods 14 135 1 Branch Pro ts Exemption 138 Non-deductible expenses 438 209 Other items 31 170 Tax on pro ts on ordinary activities 1,891 1,842 1 The Group elected into the Branch Pro t Exemption Regime which took effect from 1 January 2012.
This election provides for the pro ts of foreign branches of a UK company tobe exempt from UK corporation tax.
Double taxation relief has also reduced as a result of the election.
The prior period impact was to reduce the UK deferred tax asset by $138 million 222 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 12.
Taxation continued 2012 2011 Current Deferred Current Deferred Tax Tax Total Tax Tax Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Tax recognised in other comprehensiveincome Available-for-sale assets 40 87 127 33 74 41 Cash ow hedges 19 19 20 20 Retirement bene t obligations 14 14 37 37 40 92 132 33 131 98 Other tax recognised in equity Share based payments 14 8 22 80 21 59 14 8 22 80 21 59 Total tax charge credit recognised in equity 26 84 110 47 110 157 13.
Dividends 2012 2011 Ordinary equity shares Cents per share $million Cents per share $million 2011 2010 final dividend declared and paid during the year 51.25 1,216 46.65 1,089 2012 2011 interim dividend declared and paid during the year 27.23 650 24.75 586 1,866 1,675 The amounts in the table above re ect the actual dividend per share declared and paid to shareholders in 2012 and 2011.
Dividends on ordinary equity shares are recorded in the period in which they are declared and, in respect of the final dividend, have been approved by the shareholders.
Accordingly, the final ordinary equity share dividends set out above relate to the respective prior years.
The 2011 final dividend of 51.25 cents per ordinary share $1,216 million was paid to eligible shareholders on 15 May 2012 and the 2012 interim dividend of 27.23 cents per ordinary share $650 million was paid to eligible shareholders on 11 October 2012.
2012 recommended final ordinary equity share dividend The 2012 final ordinary equity share dividend recommended by the Board is 56.77 cents per share $ 1,366 million, which makes the total dividend for 2012 84.00 cents per share 2011: 76.00 cents per share.
The final dividend will be paid in either pounds sterling, Hong Kong dollars or US dollars on 14 May 2013 to shareholders on the UK register of members at the close of business in the UK 10:00pm London time on 15 March 2013, and to shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register of members at the opening of business in Hong Kong 9:00am Hong Kong time on 15 March 2013.
The 2012 final ordinary equity share dividend will be paid in Indian rupees on 14 May 2013 to Indian Depository Receipt holders on the Indian register at the close of business in India on 15 March 2013.
It is intended that shareholders on the UK register and Hong Kong branch register will be able to elect to receive shares credited as fully paid instead of all or part of the final cash dividend.
Details of the dividend arrangements will be sent to shareholders on or around 28 March 2013.
Indian Depository Receipt holders will receive their dividend in Indian rupees only.
2012 2011 Preference shares $million $million 3 1 Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares: 7 8 per cent preference shares of 1 each 11 11 1 1 8 4 per cent preference shares of 1 each 13 13 1 Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares: 8.125 per cent preference shares of $5 each 75 75 2 7.014 per cent preference shares of $5 each 53 53 2 6.409 per cent preference shares of $5 each 48 48 1 Dividends on these preference shares are treated as interest expense and accrued accordingly 2 Dividends on those preference shares classi ed as equity are recorded in the period in which they are declared Financial statements and notes 223 14.
Earnings per ordinary share 2012 2011 Weighted Weighted average Per average Per number of share number of share 1 1 Pro t shares amount Pro t shares amount $million 000 cents $million 000 cents Basic earnings per ordinary share Basic earnings per ordinary share 4,786 2,396,737 199.7 4,748 2,364,445 200.8 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: 2 Options 24,534 31,408 Diluted earnings per ordinary share 4,786 2,421,271 197.7 4,748 2,395,853 198.2 There were no ordinary shares issued after the balance sheet date that would have signi cantly affected the number of ordinary shares used in the above calculation had they been issued prior to the end of the balance sheet date.
Normalised earnings per ordinary share The Group measures earnings per share on a normalised basis.
This differs from earnings fide ned in IAS 33 Earnings per share.
The table below provides a reconciliation.
2012 2011 $million $million Pro t attributable to ordinary shareholders 4,786 4,748 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising on business combinations 69 69 Gain on disposal of property 91 49 Gains arising on repurchase of subordinated liabilities 90 Recovery on structured notes 96 Gain arising on sale of business 15 Settlements with US authorities 667 Impairment of associates 70 Tax on normalised items 2 10 Normalised earnings 5,398 4,682 2 Normalised basic earnings per ordinary share cents 225.2 198.0 2 Normalised diluted earnings per ordinary share cents 222.9 195.4 1 The pro t amounts represent the pro t attributable to ordinary shareholders, which is pro t for the year after non-controlling interest and the declaration of dividends payable to the holders of the non-cumulative redeemable preference shares classi ed as equity no te 13 2.
The impact of anti-dilutive options has been excluded from this amount as required by IAS 33 224 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments Classi cation Financial assets are classi ed between four measurement categories: held at fair value through pro t or loss comprising trading and designated : available-for-sale, loans and receivables and held-to-maturity: and two measurement categories for financial liabilities: held at fair value through pro t or loss comprising trading and designated and amortised cost.
Instruments are classi ed in the balance sheet in accordance with their legal form, except for instruments that are held for trading purposes and those that the Group has designated to hold at fair value through the pro t and loss account.
The latter are combined on the face of the balance sheet and disclosed as financial assets or liabilities held at fair value through pro t or loss.
The Groups classi cation of its principal financial assets and liabilities is summarised in the table below.
Assets at fair value Assets at amortised cost Designated at fair value Derivatives through Nonheld for pro t AvailableLoans and Held-tofinancial Trading hedging or loss for-sale receivables maturity assets Total Assets Notes $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 61,043 61,043 Financial assets held at fair value through pro t or loss 1 Loans and advances to banks 677 97 774 1 Loans and advances to customers 4,793 185 4,978 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 16 2,955 2,955 Debt securities 1614,890 333 15,223 Equity shares 16 2,140 1,014 3,154 25,455 1,629 27,084 Derivative financial instruments 1747,134 2,362 49,496 1 Loans and advances to banks 18 68,381 68,381 1 Loans and advances to customers 19 283, 885 283, 885 Investment securities Treasury bills and other eligible bills 21 26,871 26,871 Debt securities 21 65,413 3,851 69,264 Equity shares 21 3,278 3,278 95,562 3,851 99,413 Other assets 22 21, 659 7,1 59 28, 818 Total at 31 December 2012 72,589 2,362 1,629 95,562 438, 819 7,1 59 618, 120 Cash and balances at central banks 47,364 47,364 Financial assets held at fair value through pro t or loss 1 Loans and advances to banks 463 105 568 1 Loans and advances to customers 4,676 312 4,988 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 16 4,609 4,609 Debt securities 1613,025 45 13,070 Equity shares 16 1,028 565 1,593 23,801 1,027 24,828 1, 2 Derivative financial instruments 1756,485 2,039 58,524 1 Loans and advances to banks 18 65,981 65,981 1, 2 Loans and advances to customers 19 266,790 266,790 Investment securities Treasury bills and other eligible bills 21 21,680 21,680 Debt securities 21 55,567 5,475 18 61,060 Equity shares 21 2,543 2,543 79,790 5,475 18 85,283 Other assets 22 20,554 6,732 27,286 Total at 31 December 2011 80,286 2,039 1,027 79,790 406,164 18 6,732 576,056 1 Further analysed in Risk review on pages 56 to 115 2 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 45 Financial statements and notes 225 15.
Financial instruments continued Liabilities at fair value Designated Derivatives at fair value held for through Amortised Nonfinancial Trading hedging pro t or loss cost liabilities Total Liabilities Notes $million $million $million $million $million $million Financial liabilities held at fair value through pro t or loss Deposits by banks 933 35 968 Customer accounts 4,858 7,385 12,243 Debt securities in issue 3,902 1,359 5,261 Short positions 4,592 4,592 14,285 8,779 23, 064 Derivative financial instruments 17 46,459 733 47,192 Deposits by banks 28 36,477 36,477 Customer accounts 29 377,639 377,639 Debt securities in issue 30 55,979 55,979 Other liabilities 31 19, 739 4,7 65 24, 504 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 32 18,799 18,799 Total at 31 December 2012 60,744 733 8,779 508,633 4, 765 583, 654 Financial liabilities held at fair value through pro t or loss Deposits by banks 973 119 1,092 Customer accounts 1,518 7,600 9,118 Debt securities in issue 2,441 1,992 4,433 Short positions 4,956 4,956 9,888 9,711 19,599 1 Derivative financial instruments 17 55,441 1,076 56,517 Deposits by banks 28 35,296 35,296 1 Customer accounts 29 345,726 345,726 Debt securities in issue 30 47,140 47,140 Other liabilities 31 19,169 4,665 23,834 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 32 16,717 16,717 Total at 31 December 2011 65,329 1,076 9,711 464,048 4,665 544,829 1 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 45 Valuation of financial instruments Valuation of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value are subject to a review independent of the Business by Valuation Control.
Valuation Control performs price testing by comparing external and independent market data e. g. consensus data, trade prices and broker quotes against internal data.
Financial instruments held at fair value in the balance sheet have been classi ed into a threelevel valuation hierarchy see below for how each level is fide ned and the types of instruments included within them that re ects the signi cance of the observability of the inputs used in the fair value measurement.
The market data used for price testing may include those sourced from recent trade data involving external counterparties or third parties such as Bloomberg, Reuters, brokers and consensus pricing providers.
The market data used should be most representative of the market as much as possible, which can evolve over time as markets and financial instruments develop.
To determine the extent of how representative the market data are, factors such as independence, relevance, reliability, availability of multiple data sources and methodology employed by the pricing provider are considered.
For instruments classi ed as level 2 or level 3 fair value adjustments are also made to system valuations to arrive at fair value in accordance with accounting requirements.
The main adjustments are described below: Bid Offer Valuation Adjustments Where market parameters are marked on a midmarket basis in the revaluation systems, a bid offer valuation adjustment is required to quantify the expected cost of neutralising the business positions through dealing away in the market, thereby bringing long positions to bid and short positions to offer.
Where long positions are marked to bid and short positions marked to offer in the systems, e. g. for cash securities, no bid offer valuation adjustments are required.
Credit Adjustments The Group makes a credit adjustment CA against derivative products, which represents an estimate of the adjustment to fair value that re ects the possibility that the counterparty may default such that the Group would not receive the full market value of the transactions.
For CA, AIRB models are used to calculate the PD and LGD which, together with the results of the exposure simulation engine, generates a view of expected losses.
The Group assesses actual losses and provisions incurred against expected losses on a portfolio basis, taking into account the fact that it takes a number of years for the workout recovery process to complete upon a default.
226 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments continued In addition to periodic reassessment of the counterparties, credit exposures and external trends that may impact risk management outcomes are closely monitored.
Accounts or portfolios are placed on Early Alert when they display signs of weakness or financial deterioration, for example where there is a decline in the customers position within the industry, a breach of covenants, non-performance of an obligation, or there are issues relating to ownership or management.
As a result, the reserve represents a dynamic calculation based on the credit quality of the counterparties, collateral positions and exposure pro les.
The CA is not signi cant in the context of the overall fair value of these financial instruments.
Model Valuation Adjustments Certain models may have pricing fide ciencies or limitations that justify a valuation adjustment.
The pricing fide ciencies or limitations that arise could be due to the choice, implementation and calibration of the pricing model, amongst other reasons.
Day One Pro t and Loss A financial instrument is initially recogni sed at fair value, which is generally its transaction price.
In those cases where the value obtained from the relevant valuation model differs, we record the asset or liability based on our valuation model, but do not recogni se that initial difference in pro t and loss.
This is unless the valuation model used is widely accepted and all inputs to the model are observable.
Funding Adjustments Funding valuation adjustments account for the additional costs of funding in the valuation of funded derivative transactions.
Examples of funded derivative transactions are prepaid swaps or funded loans in the form of a derivative.
In total, the Group has made $349 million 2011: $334 million of valuation adjustments in determining fair value for financial assets and financial liabilities.
Valuation adjustments 2012 2011 Bid offer 80 92 Credit 133 127 Model 10 20 Funding 73 55 Others including Day 1 53 40 Total 349 334 Control framework A Product Valuation Committee exists for each business where there is a material valuation risk.
The Committees meet monthly and comprise representatives from Front Of ce, Group Market Risk, Product Control and Valuation Control.
The Committees are responsible for reviewing the results of the valuation control process.
Valuation hierarchy The valuation hierarchy and the types of instruments classi ed into each level within that hierarchy are set out below: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair value determined using Unadjusted quoted prices in an Directly or indirectly observable One or more signi cant inputs active market for identical inputs other than unadjusted that are not based on assets and liabilities quoted prices included within observable market data level 1 that are observable unobservable inputs Types of financial assets Actively traded government Corporate and other Asset backed securities and other securities government bonds and loans Private equity investments Listed equities Over-the-counter OTC Highly structured OTC Listed derivative instruments derivatives derivatives with unobservable Investments in publicly traded Asset backed securities inputs mutual funds with listed market Illiquid or highly structured prices corporate bonds with unobservable inputs Illiquid loans and advances Types of financial liabilities Listed derivative instruments OTC derivatives Highly structured OTC Structured deposits derivatives with unobservable Credit structured debt inputs.
securities in issue Illiquid or highly structured debt securities in issue with unobservable inputs Financial statements and notes 227 15.
Financial instruments continued Level 1 portfolio Level 1 assets and liabilities are typically exchangetraded positions and some government bonds traded in active markets.
These positions are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets.
Level 2 portfolio Where instruments are not quoted in an active market the Group utilises a number of valuation techniques to determine fair value.
These valuation techniques include discounted cash ow analysis models, option pricing models, simulation models and other standard models commonly used by market participants.
Valuation techniques incorporate assumptions that other market participants would use in their valuations, such as discount rates, default rates, credit spreads and option volatilities.
These inputs need to be directly or indirectly observable in order to be classi ed as level 2.
In line with changes in market practice, certain interest rate swaps have been subject to overnight index swap OIS rate discounting in 2011.
The factors to be considered for the selection of such interest rate swaps include the currency in which the swaps are traded, counterparties with credit support annex agreement and the form of the collateral posted by the counterparties.
Level 3 portfolio Level 3 assets are valued using techniques similar to those outlined for level 2, except that if the instrument has one or more inputs that are unobservable and signi cant to the fair value measurement of the instrument in its entirety, it will be classi ed as level 3.
At 31 December 2012, level 3 assets with a fair value of $5,109 million 2011: $3,347 million and Level 3 liabilities with a fair value of $677 million 2011: $356 million were held in respect of which there were no observable market data.
For these instruments, a sensitivity analysis is presented on page 230 in respect of reasonably possible changes to the valuation assumptions.
The primary products classi ed as level 3 are as follows: Loan and advances These include loans in the global syndications underwriting book that are not syndicated yet.
These loans are generally bilateral in nature and their valuation is primarily based on recent trades or proxies, i. e. comparable loans with similar credit grade, sector etc.
Where there are no recent transactions and reliable comparable loans to proxy from, the valuation of these loans is based on unobservable inputs resulting in them being classi ed as level 3.
Debt securities Asset backed securities Due to the severe lack of liquidity in the market and the prolonged period of time under which many securities have not traded, obtaining external prices is not a strong enough measure to determine whether an asset has an observable price or not.
Therefore, once external pricing has been veri ed, an assessment is made whether each security is traded in a liquid manner based on its credit rating and sector.
If a security is of low credit rating and or is traded in a less liquid sector, it will be classi ed as level 3.
Where thirdparty pricing is not available, the valuation of the security will be estimated from market standard cash ow models with input parameter assumptions that include prepayment speeds and default rates.
These input parameter assumptions are estimated with reference to factors such as underlying collateral performance, prices of comparable securities and sector spreads.
These securities are also classi ed as level 3.
Debt securities These debt securities include certain convertible bonds, corporate bonds, credit and equity structured notes where there are signi cant valuation inputs that are unobservable in the market, due to illiquid trading or the complexity of the product.
Debt securities are valued using available prices provided through pricing vendors, brokers or trading activities.
Where such liquid external prices are not available, valuation of these cash securities are implied using input parameters such as bond spreads and credit spreads.
These input parameters are determined with reference to the same issuer if available or proxied from comparable issuers or assets.
Equity shares Private equity Private equity investments are generally valued based on earning multiples Price-to-Earnings P E or Enterprise Value to Earnings Before Income Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation EV EBITDA ratios of comparable listed companies.
The two primary inputs for the valuation of these investments are the actual or forecast earnings of the investee companies and earning multiples for the comparable listed companies.
In circumstances where an investment doesnt have direct comparables or where the multiples for the comparable companies cannot be sourced from reliable external sources, alternate valuation techniques for example, discounted cash ow models, which use predominantly unobservable inputs or Level 3 inputs, may be applied.
Even though earning multiples for the comparable listed companies can be sourced from third-pa rty sources for example, Bloomberg, and those inputs can be deemed level 2 inputs, all unlisted investments excluding those where observable inputs are available, for example, OTC prices are classi ed as level 3 on the grounds that the valuation methods involve judgments ranging from determining comparable companies to discount rates where the discounted cash ow method is applied.
Derivatives These trading derivatives are classi ed as level 3 if there are parameters that are unobservable in the market, such as products where the performance is linked to more than one underlying.
Examples are foreign exchange basket options, equity options based on the performance of two or more underlying indices and interest rate products with quanto payouts.
These unobservable correlation parameters could only be implied from the market, through methods such as historical analysis and comparison with historical levels or benchmark data.
Debt securities in issue These debt securities relate to credit structured notes issued by the Group where there are signi cant valuation inputs that are unobservable in the market, due to illiquid trading or the complexity of the product.
Where such liquid external prices are not available, valuation of these debt securities are implied using input parameters such as bond spreads and credit spreads.
228 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments continued The table below shows the classi cation of financial instruments held at fair value into the valuation hierarchy set out above as at 31 December 2012.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets $million $million $million $million Financial instruments held at fair value through pro t or loss Loans and advances to banks 97 677 774 Loans and advances to customers 4,068 910 4,978 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2,812 143 2,955 Debt securities 8,531 6,516 176 15,223 Equity shares 2,029 1,125 3,154 13,469 11,404 2,211 27,084 Derivative financial instruments 260 48,750 486 49,496 Investment securities Treasury bills and other eligible bills 22,912 3,901 58 26,871 Debt securities 20,828 44,189 396 65,413 Equity shares 1,307 13 1,958 3,278 45,047 48,103 2,412 95,562 At 31 December 2012 58,776 108,257 5,109 172,142 Liabilities Financial instruments held at fair value through pro t or loss Deposit by banks 968 968 Customer accounts 68 12,175 12,243 Debt securities in issue 5,147 114 5,261 Short positions 4,320 272 4,592 4,388 18,562 114 23, 064 Derivative financial instruments 383 46,246 563 47,192 At 31 December 2012 4,771 64,808 677 70,256 There were no signi cant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 in 2012.
The table below shows the classi cation of financial instruments held at fair value into the valuation hierarchy set out above as at 31 December 2011.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets $million $million $million $million Financial instruments held at fair value through pro t or loss Loans and advances to banks 110 458 568 Loans and advances to customers 5 4,983 4,988 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 4,502 107 4,609 Debt securities 7,516 5,261 293 13,070 Equity shares 1,027 566 1,593 13,160 10,809 859 24,828 Derivative financial instruments 396 57,852 276 58,524 Investment securities Treasury bills and other eligible bills 18,831 2,800 49 21,680 Debt securities 17,938 36,884 745 55,567 Equity shares 1,116 9 1,418 2,543 37,885 39,693 2,212 79,790 At 31 December 2011 51,441 108,354 3,347 163,142 Liabilities Financial instruments held at fair value through pro t or loss Deposit by banks 104 988 1,092 Customer accounts 9,118 9,118 Debt securities in issue 4,261 172 4,433 Short positions 4,483 473 4,956 4,587 14,840 172 19,599 Derivative financial instruments 549 55,784 184 56,517 At 31 December 2011 5,136 70,624 356 76,116 There were no signi cant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 in 2011.
Financial instruments continued Level 3 movement tables Financial assets Held at fair value throughpro t or loss Investment securities Loans and Derivative advances to Debt Equity financial Treasury Debt Equity customers securities shares inst ruments bills securities shares Total Assets $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 2012 293 566 276 49 745 1,418 3,347 Total gains losses recognised in income statement 9 313 48 48 13 309 Total losses gains recognised in other comprehensive income 56 133 77 Purchases 22 310 336 42 134 5 25 1, 369 Sales 5 64 13 199 71 352 Settlements 27 97 60 17 23 224 Transfers out 96 5 33 261 16 411 Transfers in 937 50 2 5 99 4 At 31 December 2012 910 176 1,125 486 58 396 1,958 5,109 Total losses gains recognised in the income statement relating to assets held at 31 December 2012 10 195 30 155 Transfers in during the year primarily relate to loans held within the Groups global syndicates underwriting book where the valuation parameters became unobservable during the year.
Transfers out during the year primarily relate to certain corporate desk securities where the valuation parameters became observable during the year and were transferred to Level 2 financial assets.
Held at fair value throughpro t or loss Investment securities Derivative Debt Equity financial Treasury Debt Equity securities shares inst ruments bills securities shares Total Assets $million $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 2011 227 301 187 582 1,051 2,348 Total losses gains recognised in incomestatement 30 73 136 52 69 196 Total losses recognised in other comprehensiveincome 4 52 199 255 Purchases 223 210 68 226 416 1,143 Sales 73 18 7 189 142 429 Settlements 89 88 33 41 251 Transfers out 94 33 246 71 444 Transfers in 129 13 53 509 335 1,039 At 31 December 2011 293 566 276 49 745 1,418 3,347 Total gains recognised in the income statement relating to assets held at 31 December 2011 13 62 187 262 Transfers in during the year primarily relate to markets for certain debt securities and equity shares becoming illiquid or where the valuation parameters became unobservable during the year.
Transfers out during the year primarily relate to certain financial instruments where the valuation parameters became observable during the year and were transferred to Level 2 financial assets.
230 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments continued Financial liabilities 2012 2011 Derivative Derivative Debt securities financial Debt securities financial in issue instruments Total in issue instruments Total Liabilities $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 172 184 356 311 282 593 Total gains losses recognised in income statement 43 80 37 8 38 30 Issues 50 324 374 65 51 116 Settlements 28 25 53 242 128 370 Transfers out 37 37 34 59 93 Transfers in 80 80 At 31 December 114 563 677 172 184 356 Total losses gains recognised in the income statement relating to liabilities held at 31December 3 44 47 38 37 1 Transfers in during the year primarily relate to certain financial instruments for which parameters became unobservable during the year.
Transfers out during the year primarily relate to certain financial instruments where the valuation parameters became observable during the year and were transferred to Level 2 financial liabilities.
Sensitivities in respect of the fair values of Level 3 assets and liabilities Held at fair value through pro t or loss Available-for-sale Net Favourable Unfavourable Net Favourable Unfavourable exposure changes changes exposure changes changes $million $million $million $million $million $million Financial instruments held at fair value through pro t or loss Debt securities 176 180 171 Equity shares 1,125 1,237 1,013 Loan and advances 910 924 896 Derivative financial instruments 77 2 154 Debt securities in issue 114 114 114 Investment securities Treasury bills and other eligible bills 58 58 58 Debt securities 396 401 385 Equity shares 1,958 2,167 1,759 At 31 December 2012 2,020 2,229 1,812 2,412 2,626 2,202 Financial instruments held at fair value through pro t or loss Debt securities 293 298 288 Equity shares 566 623 509 Derivative financial instruments 92 115 69 Debt securities in issue 172 172 172 Investment securities Treasury bills and other eligible bills 49 49 48 Debt securities 745 774 716 Equity shares 1,418 1,557 1,279 At 31 December 2011 779 864 694 2,212 2,380 2,043 Where the fair value of financial instruments are measured using valuation techniques that incorporate one or more signi cant inputs that are based on unobservable market data, we apply a 10 per cent increase or decrease on the values of these unobservable parameter inputs, to generate a range of reasonably possible alternative valuations in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7.
The percentage shift is determined by statistical analyses performed on a set of reference prices, which included certain equity indices, credit indices and volatility indices, based on the composition of our level 3 assets.
Favourable and unfavourable changes are determined on the basis of changes in the value of the instrument as a result of varying the levels of the unobservable parameters.
This level 3 sensitivity analysis assumes a oneway market move and does not consider offsets for hedges.
As of 31 December 2012, these reasonably possible alternatives could have increased fair values of financial instruments held at fair value through pro t or loss by $ 209 million 2011: $ 85 million and available-for-sale by $ 214 million 2011: $ 168 million or decreased fair values of financial instruments held at fair value through pro t or loss by $ 208 million 2011: $ 85 million and available-for-sale by $210 million 2011: $1 69 million.
Financial instruments continued Instruments carried at amortised cost The following table summarises the carrying amounts and incorporates the Groups estimate of fair values of those financial assets and liabilities not presented on the Groups balance sheet at fair value.
The fair values in the table below may be different from the actual amount that will be received paid on the settlement or maturity of the financial instrument.
For certain instruments, the fair value may be determined using assumptions for which no observable prices are available.
2012 2011 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value $million $million $million $million Assets Cash and balances at central banks 61,043 61,043 47,364 47,364 Loans and advances to banks 68,381 68,345 65,981 65,964 Loans and advances to customers 283,885 282,919 266,790 267,554 Investment securities 3,851 3,803 5,493 5,241 Other assets 21,659 21,659 20,554 20,554 Liabilities Deposits by banks 36,477 36,011 35,296 35,259 Customer accounts 377,639 376,467 345,726 345,569 Debt securities in issue 55,979 56,469 47,140 46,836 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 18,799 19,988 16,717 16,599 Other liabilities 19,739 19,739 19,169 19,169 The following sets out the Groups basis of establishing fair values of the financial instruments shown above.
Cash and balances at central banks The fair value of cash and balances at central banks is their carrying amounts.
Loans and advances to banks and customers For loans and advances to banks, the fair value of oating rate placements and overnight deposits is their carrying amounts.
The estimated fair value of xed interestbearing deposits is based on discounted cash ows using the prevailing money market rates for debts with a similar credit risk and remaining maturity.
The Groups loans and advances to customers portfolio is well diversi ed by geography and industry.
Approximately one-third of the portfolio reprices within one month, and approximately half reprices within 12 months.
Loans and advances are presented net of provisions for impairment.
The fair value of loans and advances to customers with a residual maturity of less than one year generally approximates the carrying value, subject to any signi cant movement in credit spreads.
The estimated fair value of loans and advances with a residual maturity of more than one year represents the discounted amount of future cash ows expected to be received, including assumptions relating to prepayment rates and, where appropriate, credit spreads.
Expected cash ows are discounted at current market rates to determine fair value.
The Group has a wide range of individual instruments within its loans and advances portfolio and as a result providing quanti cation of the key assumptions used to value such instruments is impractical, with no one assumption being material.
Investment securities For investment securities that do not have directly observable market values, the Group utilises a number of valuation techniques to determine fair value.
Where available, securities are valued using inputs proxied from the same or closely related underlying for example, bond spreads from the same or closely related issuer or inputs proxied from a different underlying for example, a similar bond but using spreads for a particular sector and rating.
Certain instruments cannot be proxied as set out above, and in such cases the positions are valued using non-market observable inputs.
This includes those instruments held at amortised cost and predominantly relate to asset backed securities.
The fair value for such instruments is usually proxied from internal assessments of the underlying cash ows.
The Group has a wide range of individual investments within the unlisted debt securities portfolio.
Given the number of instruments involved, providing quanti cation of the key assumptions used to value such instruments is impractical, with no one assumption being material.
Deposits and borrowings The estimated fair value of deposits with no stated maturity is the amount repayable on demand.
The estimated fair value of xed interest-b earing deposits and other borrowings without quoted market prices is based on discounting cash ows using the prevailing market rates for debts with a similar credit risk and remaining maturity.
Debt securities in issue, subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds The aggregate fair values are calculated based on quoted market prices.
For those notes where quoted market prices are not available, a discounted cash ow model is used based on a current market related yield curve appropriate for the remaining term to maturity.
Reclassi cation of financial assets In 2008 the Group reclassi ed certain non-derivative financial assets classi ed as held for trading into the available-for-sale AFS category as these were no longer considered to be held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term.
At the time of transfer, the Group identi ed the rare circumstances permitting such a transfer as the impact of the credit crisis in financial markets, particularly from the beginning of 2008, which signi cantly impacted the liquidity in certain markets.
The Group also reclassi ed certain eligible financial assets from trading and availablefor-sale categories to loans and receivables where the Group had the intent and ability to hold the reclassi ed assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
There have been no reclassi cations since 2008.
232 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments continued The following tables provide details of the remaining balances of assets reclassi ed during 2008: If assets had not been reclassi ed, fair value gains from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012 Effective Carrying Income interest that would have been amount Fair value recognised recognised within rate at Estimated at 31 at 31 in income date of amounts of December December AFS statement reclassi - expected 2012 2012 Income reserve in 2012 cation cash ows For assets reclassi ed: $million $million $million $million $million % $million 1 From trading to AFS 85 85 5 10 4.1 195 From trading to loans and receivables 550 532 34 28 5.0 609 From AFS to loans and receivables 673 661 45 26 5.3 826 1,308 1,278 39 45 64 Of which asset backed securities: 1 reclassi ed to AFS 81 81 5 8 reclassi ed to loans and receivables 924 896 68 45 43 1 Post-reclassi cation, this is recognised within the available-for-sale reserve If assets had not been reclassi ed, fair value gains losses from 1 January 2011 Effective to 31 December 2011 Carrying Income interest that would have been amount Fair value recognised rate at Estimated recognised within at 31 at 31 in income date of amounts of December December AFS statement reclassi - expected 2011 2011 Income reserve in 2011 cation cash ows For assets reclassi ed: $million $million $million $million $million % $million 1 From trading to AFS 176 176 1 9 5.8 316 From trading to loans and receivables 816 711 44 27 5.6 961 From AFS to loans and receivables 856 796 1 27 5.5 1,118 1,848 1,683 43 1 63 Of which asset backed securities: 1 reclassi ed to AFS 114 114 1 5 reclassi ed to loans and receivables 1,304 1,195 11 1 43 1 Post-reclassi cation, this is recognised within the available-for-sale reserve Transfers of financial assets Transfers where financial assets are not derecognised Repurchase transactions The Group enters into collateralised repurchase agreements repos and securities borrowing and lending transactions.
These transactions typically entitle the Group and its counterparties to have recourse to assets similar to those provided as collateral in the event of a default.
Securities sold subject to repos continue to be recognised on the balance sheet as the Group retains substantially the associated risk and rewards of these securities.
The counterparty liability is included in deposits by banks or customer accounts, as appropriate.
The table below sets out the financial assets provided by the Group as collateral for repurchase transactions: Fair value through Available for Loans and pro t and loss sale receivables Total Collateral pledged against repurchase agreements $million $million $million $million On balance sheet Treasury bills and other eligible bills 62 424 486 Debt securities 522 590 1,112 Loan and advances to banks and customers 1,780 1,780 Off balance sheet Repledged collateral received 97 1,281 1,378 At 31 December 2012 681 1,014 3,061 4,756 Balance sheet liabilities Repurchase agreements Banks 1,338 Customers 1,917 At 31 December 2012 3,255 Financial statements and notes 233 15.
Financial instruments continued Fair value through Available for Loans and pro t and loss sale receivables Total Collateral pledged against repurchase agreements $million $million $million $million On balance sheet Treasury bills and other eligible bills 234 490 724 Debt securities 933 1,107 15 2,055 Loan and advances to banks and customers 15 15 Off balance sheet Repledged collateral received 104 901 1,005 At 31 December 2011 1,271 1,597 931 3,799 Balance sheet liabilities Repurchase agreements Banks 1,913 Customers 1,850 At 31 December 2011 3,763 Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements The Group also undertakes reverse repurchase transactions as set out in the table below: 2012 2011 Balance sheet assets Reverse repurchase agreements $million $million Banks 7,759 5,706 Customers 2,900 1,890 10,659 7,596 Under reverse repurchase and securities borrowing arrangements, the Group obtains securities on terms that permit it to repledge or resell the securities to others.
Amounts on such terms are: 2012 2011 $million $million Securities and collateral that can be repledged or sold at fair value 10, 517 7,076 Thereof repledged transferred to others for nancing activities, to satisfy commitments under short sale transactions or liabilities under sale and repurchase agreements at fair value 1,37 8 1,005 Securitisation transactions The Group has also entered into a number of securitisation transactions where the underlying loans and advances have been transferred to special purpose entities SPEs that are fully consolidated by the Group.
As a result, the Group continues to recognise the assets on its balance sheet, together with the associated liability instruments issued by the special purpose entities.
The holders of the liability instruments have recourse only to the assets transferred to the SPE.
Further details of SPE in note 43.
The following table sets out the carrying value and fair value of the assets transferred and the carrying value and fair value of the associated liabilities at 31 December 2012 and 2011 respectively.
2012 2011 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value $million $million $million $million Loan and advances 1,321 1,319 2,212 2,011 Securitisation liability 1,093 1,093 1,843 1,843 Net 228 226 369 168 The Group did not undertake any transactions that required the recognition of an asset representing continuing involvement in financial assets.
234 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 16.
Financial instruments held at fair value through pro t or loss Loans and advances held at fair value through pro t or loss The maximum exposure to credit risk for loans designated at fair value through pro t or loss was $282 million 2011: $417 million.
The net fair value gain on loans and advances to customers designated at fair value through pro t or loss was $0.2 million 2011: $2.3 million.
Of this, $nil million 2011: $nil million relates to changes in credit risk.
The cumulative fair value movement relating to changes in credit risk was $3.4 million 2011: $3.4 million.
The changes in fair value attributable to credit risk have been determined by comparing fair value movements in risk-free bonds with similar maturities to the changes in fair value of loans designated at fair value through pro t or loss.
Debt securities, equity shares and treasury bills held at fair value through pro t or loss 2012 Debt securities Equity shares Treasury bills Total $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 10,182 Other public sector securities 131 10,313 Issued by banks: Certi cates of deposit 255 Other debt securities 1,723 1,978 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 2,932 Total debt securities 15,223 Of which: Listed on a recognised UK exchange 467 23 490 Listed elsewhere 9,086 2,081 949 12,116 Unlisted 5,670 1,050 2,006 8,726 15,223 3,154 2,955 21,332 Market value of listed securities 9,553 2,104 949 12, 606 2011 Debt Securities Equity Shares Treasury bills Total $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 7,766 Other public sector securities 65 7,831 Issued by banks: Certi cates of deposit 488 Other debt securities 1,564 2,052 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 3,187 Total debt securities 13,070 Of which: Listed on a recognised UK exchange 517 26 543 Listed elsewhere 7,269 1,002 799 9,070 Unlisted 5,284 565 3,810 9,659 13,070 1,593 4,609 19,272 Market value of listed securities 7,786 1,028 799 9,613 Financial liabilities held at fair value through pro t or loss The net fair value loss on liabilities designated at fair value through pro t or loss was $256 million for the year 2011: $438 million.
The cumulative fair value movement relating to changes in credit risk was a loss of $10.4 million 2011: $10.4 million.
The change in fair value attributable to credit risk was determined by comparing fair value movements in risk-free debt instruments with similar maturities, to the changes in fair value of liabilities designated at fair value through pro t or loss.
As at 31 December 2012, the amount the Group is contractually obliged to pay at maturity to the holders of these obligations was $ 29 million higher 2011: $ 60 million lower than the carrying amount at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments The tables below analyse the notional principal amounts and the positive and negative fair values of the Groups derivative financial instruments.
Notional principal amounts are the amount of principal underlying the contract at the reporting date.
2012 2011 Notional Notional principal principal 1 1 amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities Total derivatives $million $million $million $million $million $million Foreign exchange derivative contracts: Forward foreign exchange contracts 1,220,949 11,636 12,697 1,130,075 17,412 16,521 Currency swaps and options 853,498 13,932 12,370 1,098,433 15,406 16,180 Exchange traded futures and options 8,772 363 2,083,219 25,568 25,067 2,228,871 32,818 32,701 Interest rate derivative contracts: Swaps 1,463,778 19,107 18,343 2,009,872 17,182 15,405 Forward rate agreements and options 145,020 1,266 796 242,843 1,086 1,093 Exchange traded futures and options 306,054 273,089 343 347 1,914,852 20,373 19,139 2,525,804 18,611 16,845 Credit derivative contracts 61,186 830 1,130 77,776 1,783 1,807 Equity and stock index options 12,223 355 372 12,057 678 845 Commodity derivative contracts 138,642 2,370 1,484 62,426 4,634 4,319 Total derivatives 4,210,122 49,496 47,192 4,906,934 58,524 56,517 1 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 45 The Group limits exposure to credit losses in the event of default by entering into master netting agreements with certain market counterparties.
As required by IAS 32, exposures are only presented net in these accounts where they are subject to legal right of offset and intended to be settled net in the ordinary course of business.
Details of the amounts available for offset under master netting agreement can be found in the Risk review on page 68.
The Derivatives and Hedging sections of the Risk review on page 102 explain the Groups risk management of derivative contracts and application of hedging.
Derivatives held for hedging Hedge accounting is applied to derivatives and hedged items when the criteria under IAS 39 have been met see note 1 on page 210.
The table below list the types of derivatives that the Group holds for hedge accounting.
2012 2011 Notional Notional principal principal amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivatives designated as fair value hedges: Interest rate swaps 51,383 2,236 636 45,249 1,806 760 Currency swaps 2,910 18 5 3,768 60 221 Forward foreign exchange contracts 427 9 843 67 54,720 2,254 650 49,860 1,933 981 Derivatives designated as cash ow hedges: Interest rate swaps 17,033 33 17 23,536 40 21 Options Forward foreign exchange contracts 2,066 52 1 2,999 2 72 Currency swaps 8,955 23 13 3,609 30 2 28,054 108 31 30,144 72 95 Derivatives designated as net investment hedges: Forward foreign exchange contracts 671 52 707 34 Total derivatives held for hedging 83,445 2,362 733 80,711 2,039 1,076 236 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 17.
Derivative financial instruments continued Fair value hedges The swaps exchange xed rates for oating rates on funding to match oating rates received on assets, or exchange xed rates on assets to match the oating rates paid on funding.
For qualifying hedges, the fair value changes of the derivative are substantially matched by corresponding fair value changes of the hedged item, both of which are recognised in pro t and loss.
In respect of fair value hedges, net gains arising on the hedging instruments during the year were $13 million 2011: $795 million compared with net losses arising on the hedged items of $10 million 2011: $808 million.
Cash ow hedges The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage the variability in future cash ows on assets and liabilities that have oating rates of interest by exchanging the oating rates for xed rates.
It also uses foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and options to manage the variability in future exchange rates on its assets and liabilities and costs in foreign currencies.
Gains and losses arising on the effective portion of the hedges are deferred in equity until the variability on the cash ow affects pro t and loss, at which time the gains or losses are transferred to pro t and loss.
2012 2011 $million $million Gains recognised in the income statement in respect of ineffectiveness Gains losses reclassi ed from reserves to income statement 21 93 Gains losses recognised in operating costs 17 95 Losses recognised in net income 4 2 The Group has hedged the following cash ows that are expected to impact the income statement in the following periods: 2012 Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Over one year two years three years four years five years five years Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Forecast receivable cash ows 3,533 292 174 2 4,001 Forecast payable cash ows 5,229 577 177 3 2 5,988 1,696 285 3 1 2 1,987 2011 Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Over one year two years three years four years five years five years Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Forecast receivable cash ows 1,059 432 153 81 1 1,726 Forecast payable cash ows 2,686 1,781 143 80 1 4,691 1,627 1,349 10 1 2,965 Net investment hedges The Group uses a combination of foreign exchange contracts and nonderivative financial assets to manage the variability in future exchange rates on its net investments in foreign currencies.
Gains and losses arising on the effective portion of the hedges are deferred in equity until the net investment is disposed of.
During the year, $nil million 2011: $nil million was recognised in the income statement in respect of ineffectiveness arising on net investment hedges.
Loans and advances to banks 2012 2011 $million $million Loans and advances to banks 69,260 66,633 Individual impairment provision 103 82 Portfolio impairment provision 2 2 69,155 66,549 Of which: loans and advances held at fair value through pro t or loss note 15 774 568 68,381 65,981 Analysis of loans and advances to banks by geography are set out in the Risk review section on page 69.
Loans and advances to customers 1 2012 2011 $million $million Loans and advances to customers 291,975 274,428 Individual impairment provision 2,368 1,890 Portfolio impairment provision 744 760 288,863 271,778 Of which: loans and advances held at fair value through pro t or loss note 15 4,978 4,988 283,885 266,790 1 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 45 The Group has outstanding residential mortgage loans to Korea residents of $16.7 billion 2011:$20.8 billion and Hong Kong residents of $21.4 billion 2011: $19.2 billion.
Analysis of loans and advances to customers by geography and business and related impairment provisions are set out within the Risk review on pages 69 to 93.
Assets leased to customers Finance leases and instalment credit 2012 2011 $million $million Finance leases 576 526 Instalment credit agreements 2,248 1,949 2,824 2,475 The above assets are included within loans and advances to customers.
The cost of assets acquired during the year for leasing to customers under finance leases and instalment credit agreements amounted to $841 million 2011: $275 million.
2012 2011 $million $million Minimum lease receivables under finance leases falling due: Within one year 116 91 Later than one year and less than five years 370 391 After five years 188 141 674 623 Interest income relating to future periods 98 97 Present value of finance lease receivables 576 526 Of which: Falls due within one year 98 73 Falls due later than one year and less than five years 332 344 Falls due after five years 146 109 Operating lease assets Assets leased to customers under operating leases consist of commercial aircraft and ships that are included within property, plant and equipment in note 26.
At 31 December 2012 these assets had a net book value of $4,422 million 2011: $2,782 million.
2012 2011 $million $million Minimum lease receivables under operating leases falling due: Within one year 480 317 Later than one year and less than five years 1,201 1,177 After five years 1,523 768 3,204 2,262 238 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 21.
Investment securities 2012 Debt securities  and maturity for-sale receivables Equity shares Treasury bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 23,116 390 Other public sector securities 1,229 24,345 390 Issued by banks: Certi cates of deposit 5,974 Other debt securities 24,195 114 30,169 114 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 10,899 3,347 Total debt securities 65,413 3,851 Of which: 1 Listed on a recognised UK exchange 6,858 173 70 7,101 1 Listed elsewhere 22,816 878 1,104 13,039 37,837 Unlisted 35,739 2,800 2,104 13,832 54,475 65,413 3,851 3,278 26,871 99,413 Market value of listed securities 29,674 1,006 1,174 13,039 44,893 1 These debt securities listed or registered on a recognised UK exchange or elsewhere, are thinly traded or the market for these securities is illiquid 2011 Debt securities  and maturity for-sale receivables Equity shares Treasury bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 18 20,462 389 Other public sector securities 690 18 21,152 389 Issued by banks: Certi cates of deposit 5,811 Other debt securities 18,292 1,043 24,103 1,043 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers : Other debt securities 10,312 4,043 Total debt securities 18 55,567 5,475 Of which: 1 Listed on a recognised UK exchange 5,431 242 150 5,823 1 Listed elsewhere 18 17,082 820 869 7,516 26,305 Unlisted 33,054 4,413 1,524 14,164 53,155 18 55,567 5,475 2,543 21,680 85,283 Market value of listed securities 18 22,513 954 1,019 7,516 32,020 1 These debt securities listed or registered on a recognised UK exchange or elsewhere, are thinly traded or the market for these securities is illiquid Equity shares largely comprise investments in corporates.
Investment securities continued The change in the carrying amount of investment securities comprised: 2012 2011 Debt Equity Treasury Debt Equity Treasury securities shares bills Total securities shares bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 61,060 2,543 21,680 85,283 55,384 2,517 17,895 75,796 Exchange translation differences 675 14 615 1,304 960 5 848 1,803 Additions 111,438 783 45,104 157,325 79,385 982 50,893 131,260 Maturities and disposals 104,700 217 40,988 145,905 72,668 672 46,491 119,831 Impairment, net of recoveries on disposal 24 109 85 84 12 96 Changes in fair value including the effect of fair value hedging 728 264 57 1,049 99 277 38 216 Amortisation of discounts and premiums 39 403 442 96 269 173 At 31 December 69,264 3,278 26,871 99,413 61,060 2,543 21,680 85,283 At 31 December 2012, unamortised premiums on debt securities held for investment purposes amounted to $607 million 2011: $387 million and unamortised discounts amounted to $443 million 2011: $308 million.
Income from listed equity shares amounted to $54 million 2011: $36 million and income from unlisted equity shares amounted to $38 million 2011: $37 million.
The following table sets out the movement in the allowance of impairment provisions for investment securities classi ed as loans and receivables.
2012 2011 $million $million At 1 January 33 32 Exchange translation differences 1 Amounts written off 2 23 Impairment release charge 4 25 At 31 December 27 33 22.
Other assets 2012 2011 $million $million Financial assets held at amortised cost note 15 Hong Kong SAR government certi cates of indebtedness note 31 4,191 4,043 Cash collateral 5,068 4,856 Acceptances and endorsements 5,156 5,485 Unsettled trades and other financial assets 7,244 6,170 21,659 20,554 Nonfinancial assets Commodities 5,574 3,523 Other 1,585 3,209 28,818 27,286 The Hong Kong SAR government certi cates of indebtedness are subordinated to the claims of other parties in respect of bank notes issued.
240 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates 2012 2011 Investment in subsidiary undertakings $million $million At 1 January 14,291 14,291 Additions 78 At 31 December 14,369 14,291 During the year the company made a deemed contribution and received a deemed dividend of $270 million 2011: $430 million on account of sharebased payments and made a deemed contribution of $78 million 2011: $nil relating to a waiver of an intercompany receivable from Standard Chartered Bank.
At 31 December 2012, the principal subsidiary undertakings, all indirectly held and principally engaged in the business of banking and provision of other financial services, were as follows: Group interest in ordinary share capital Country and place of incorporation or registration Main areas of operation % Standard Chartered Bank, England and Wales United Kingdom, Middle East, South Asia, Asia Paci c, Americas and, through Group companies, Africa 100 Standard Chartered Bank Korea Limited, Korea Korea 100 Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad, Malaysia Malaysia 100 Standard Chartered Bank Pakistan Limited, Pakistan Pakistan 98.99 Standard Chartered Bank Taiwan Limited, Taiwan Taiwan 100 Standard Chartered Bank Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong Hong Kong 100 Standard Chartered Bank China Limited, China China 100 Standard Chartered Bank Thai Public Company Limited, Thailand Thailand 99.99 Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Limited, Nigeria Nigeria 100 Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited, Kenya Kenya 73.9 Standard Chartered Private Equity Limited, Hong Kong Hong Kong 100 Joint ventures The Group has a 44.56 per cent 2011: 44.51 per cent interest through a joint venture company that holds a majority investment in PT Bank Permata Tbk Permata, in Indonesia.
The Group proportionately consolidates its share of the assets, liabilities, income and expense of this joint venture on a linebyline basis.
Contingent liabilities set out in note 42, include $348 million 2011: $286 million relating to this joint venture.
These mainly comprise banking guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit.
There are no capital commitments related to the Groups investment in this joint venture.
Related party transactions are disclosed in note 46.
The following amounts have been included in the consolidated accounts of the Group: 2012 2011 $million $million Current assets 3,680 3,006 Long-term assets 2,445 2,050 Total assets 6,125 5,056 Current liabilities 4,765 4,066 Long-term liabilities 573 314 Total liabilities 5,338 4,380 Net assets 787 676 Income 287 257 Expenses 174 151 Impairment 23 20 Operating pro t 90 86 Tax 25 22 Share of post tax result from joint ventures 65 64 Long-term assets are primarily loans to customers and current liabilities are primarily customer deposits based on contractual maturities.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates continued Interests in associates 2012 2011 $million $million At 1 January 903 631 Translation 14 10 Additions 4 198 Share of pro ts 116 74 Dividends received 14 10 Impairment 70 At 31 December 953 903 The following amounts represent the total pro t, assets and liabilities of the Groups associated undertakings: 2012 2011 $million $million Pro t for the year 609 405 Total assets 79,637 57,006 Total liabilities 75,770 53,738 Net assets 3,867 3,268 The Groups principal associates are: Group interest in ordinary Main areas of share capital Associate operation % China Bohai Bank China 19.9 Fleming Family & Partners Asia 20.0 Asia Commercial Bank Vietnam 15.0 The fair value of our investment in Asia Commercial Bank ACB as at 31 December 2012 is $111 million 2011: $145 million.
The Groups investments in ACB and China Bohai Bank are less than 20 per cent but both companies are considered to be associates because of the signi cant in uence the Group is able to exercise over the management of these companies and their financial and operating policies.
Signi cant in uence is evidenced largely through the interchange of management personnel and the provision of expertise.
The reporting dates of these associates are within three months of the Groups reporting date.
24. Business Combinations 2012 acquisitions On 4 November 2012, the Group completed the acquisition of 100 per cent of the issued and paid up share capital of Credit Agricole Yatirim Bankasi Turk A. S. CAYBT, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, for a consideration of $63 million, recognising goodwill of $26 million.
The net assets acquired primarily comprised balances held with central banks.
The goodwill acquired largely represents intangibles that are not separately recognised, and primarily relates to the associated banking licen ce.
2011 acquisitions On 8 April 2011, the Group acquired a 100 per cent interest in GE Money Pte Limited, a leading specialist in auto and unsecured personal loans in Singapore, for a total cash consideration of $695 million, recognising goodwill of $199 million.
On 2 September 2011, the Group acquired a 100 per cent interest in Gryphon Partners Advisory Pty Ltd and Gryphon Partners Canada Inc together Gryphon Partners for a total consideration of $53 million.
As required by IFRS 3 Business Combination, only $28 million of this consideration is deemed to relate to the cost of acquisition: for accounting purposes the balance is deemed to represent remuneration and is charged to the income statement over the period to 2015.
Goodwill of $11 million was recognised on this transaction.
If these acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2011 the operating income of the Group would have been approximately $17,671 million and pro t before taxation would have been $6,793 million.
In 2011, these acquisit ions contributed $66 million to the Groups operating income and $40 million to the Groups pro t before taxation since acquisition.
242 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 24. Business Combinations continued The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisitions were as follows: Fair value $million Cash and balances at central banks 6 Loans and advances to customers 1,545 Intangibles other than goodwill 17 Other assets 24 Total assets 1,592 Other liabilities 1,079 Total liabilities 1,079 Net assets acquired 513 Purchase consideration settled in cash 718 Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiary acquired 6 Cash out ow on acquisition 712 Purchase consideration: Cash paid 718 Fair value of interest held prior to change in control 5 Fair value of net assets acquired 513 Goodwill 210 Intangible assets acquired: Customer relationships 17 Total 17 Goodwill arising on the acquisitions is attributable to the synergies expected to arise from their integration with the Group, the skilled workforce acquired and the distribution networks.
The primary reason for these acquisitions is to enhance capability and broaden product offering to customers.
The fair value of loans to banks was $16 million.
The gross contractual amount due was $16 million, which is expected to be collected.
The fair value of loans to customers was $1,545 million.
The gross contractual amount due was $1,554 million, of which $9 million was the best estimate of the contractual cash ows not expected to be collected.
Acquisition related costs of $1.9 million are included within operating expenses.
Goodwill and intangible assets 2012 2011 Acquired Acquired Goodwill intangibles Software Total Goodwill intangibles Software Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Cost At 1 January 6,347 666 816 7,829 6,257 654 774 7,685 Exchange translation differences 158 13 40 211 120 5 10 135 Acquisitions 34 3 37 210 17 227 Additions 296 296 240 240 Disposals 47 47 Amounts written off 2 219 221 141 141 At 31 December 6,539 680 933 8,152 6,347 666 816 7,829 Provision for amortisation At 1 January 423 345 768 359 328 687 Exchange translation differences 13 15 28 5 1 6 Amortisation for the period 67 190 257 69 184 253 Disposals 31 31 Amounts written off 2 211 213 135 135 At 31 December 501 339 840 423 345 768 Net book value 6,539 179 594 7,312 6,347 243 471 7,061 At 1 January 2011, the net book value was: goodwill $6, 257 million: acquired intangibles $ 295 million: and software $446 million.
At 31 December 2012, accumulated goodwill impairment losses incurred from 1 January 2005 amounted to $69 million 2011: $69 million.
Goodwill and intangible assets continued 2012 2011 $million $million Acquired intangibles comprise: Core deposits 18 25 Customer relationships 127 174 Brand names 31 40 Licences 3 4 Net book value 179 243 Acquired intangibles primarily comprise those recognised as part of the acquisitions of Korea First Bank subsequently renamed Standard Chartered Bank Korea Limited, Permata, Union Bank now amalgamated into Standard Chartered Bank Pakistan Limited, Hsinchu now amalgamated into Standard Chartered Bank Taiwan Limited, Pembroke, Harrison Lovegrove, American Express Bank and the custody business in Africa.
The acquired intangibles are amortised over periods from four years to a maximum of 16 years in the case of the customer relationships intangible acquired in Korea First Bank KFB.
An annual assessment is made as to whether the current carrying value of goodwill is impaired.
For the purposes of impairment testing goodwill is allocated at the date of acquisition to a cash-generating unit CGU, and the table below sets out the goodwill allocated to each CGU.
Goodwill is considered to be impaired if the carrying amount of the relevant CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amounts for all the CGUs were measured based on value-in-use.
The key assumptions used in determining the recoverable amounts are set out below and are solely estimates for the purposes of assessing impairment of acquired goodwill.
The calculation of value-in-use for each CGU is based on cash ow projections over a 20 -year period, including a terminal value, which is determined based on long-term earnings multiple c onsistent with available market data.
These cash ows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that re ects current market rates appropriate to the CGU as set out in the table below.
The cash ow projections are based on budgets and forecasts approved by management covering one year, except for Taiwan, Korea, Thailand, Pakistan and Permata CGUs, where management forecasts cover four years to 201 6.
Management forecasts project growth rates greater than long-term GDP rates but that are in line with past performance as adjusted to re ect the current economic climate.
For the period after management approved forecasts, the cash ows are extrapolated forward using steady long-term forecast GDP growth rates appropriate to the CGU.
At 31 December 2012, the results of our review indicate that there is no goodwill impairment.
The Group also believes that a reasonable possible change in any of the key assumptions on which the recoverable amounts have been based would not cause the carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amount.
It is possible that certain scenarios could be constructed where a combination of a material change in the discount rate, coupled with a reduction in current business plan forecasts or the GDP growth rate, could potentially result in the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeding the recoverable amount in the future.
Based on our review and assessment, we believe that the Korea CGU would be more sensitive to such a scenario.
The following table sets out the allocation of goodwill arising on acquisitions to CGUs, together with the pre-tax discount rate and long-term GDP growth rates used in determining value-in-use.
2012 2011 Long-term Long-term forecast forecast Pre-tax GDP Pre-tax GDP discount growth discount growth Goodwill rate rates Goodwill rate rates Acquisition Cash Generating Unit $million per cent per cent $million per cent per cent KFB, A Brain and Yeahreum Korean business 1,850 16.4 3.9 1,720 18.1 4.0 Union Bank Pakistan business 270 27.6 3.5 292 27.1 4.8 Hsinchu and Asia Trust Taiwan business 1,348 16.3 4.8 1,294 17.2 4.9 Manhattan Card Business Credit card and personal loan Asia, India & MESA 896 15.8 1.8 895 16.5 1.6 Grindlays India and STCI India business 364 16.8 6.8 377 18.7 8.1 Grindlays MESA MESA business 368 20.4 4.0 370 21.1 3.7 Standard Chartered Bank Thai Thailand business 331 16.1 5.0 324 16.3 4.9 Permata Group's share of Permata Indonesia business 162 16.9 6.7 172 20.0 6.9 American Express Bank Financial Institutions and Private Banking business 396 15.2 1.8 396 15.6 1.6 Harrison Lovegrove, Pembroke, Corporate advisory business Cazenove Asia, First Africa and Gryphonpartners.
Property, plant and equipment 2012 2011 Operating Operating lease lease Premises Equipment assets Total Premises Equipment assets Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Cost or valuation At 1 January 2,559 826 3,021 6,406 2,665 837 2,183 5,685 Exchange translation differences 54 7 61 74 40 114 Additions 73 95 1,788 1,956 138 148 1,049 1,335 Acquisitions 2 2 1 1 Disposals and fully depreciated assets written off 111 84 195 138 120 211 469 Transfers from to assets held for re-sale 32 32 At 31 December 2,577 844 4,809 8,230 2,559 826 3,021 6,406 Depreciation Accumulated at 1 January 531 558 239 1,328 471 557 150 1,178 Exchange translation differences 8 5 13 7 29 36 Charge for the year 127 136 148 411 123 145 100 368 Attributable to assets sold, transferred or written off 86 82 168 56 115 11 182 Accumulated at 31 December 580 617 387 1,584 531 558 239 1,328 Net book amount at 31 December 1,997 227 4,422 6,646 2,028 268 2,782 5,078 At 1 January 2011, the net book value was: premises, $2,194 million: equipment, $280 million: and operating lease assets, $2,033 million.
Assets held under finance leases have a net book value of $173 million 2011: $192 million with minimum lease payments of $7 million 2011:$7million before and after future finance charges.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the year: At Exchange Charge Charge At 1 January & other Acquisitions credit credit 31 December 2012 adjustments disposals to pro t to equity 2012 $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 47 16 159 128 Impairment provisions on loans and advances 19 20 190 151 Tax losses carried forward 433 15 29 477 Available-for-sale assets 3 1 1 87 86 Premises revaluation 1 1 Cash ow hedges 2 19 17 Retirement bene t obligations 105 1 12 14 108 Sharebased payments 88 1 17 8 80 Other temporary differences 45 2 102 55 Net deferred tax assets 704 17 73 84 530 At Exchange Charge Charge At 1 January & other Acquisitions credit credit 31 December 2011 adjustments disposals to pro t to equity 2011 $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 174 16 25 118 47 Impairment provisions on loans and advances 41 9 31 19 Tax losses carried forward 324 13 96 433 Available-for-sale assets 71 74 3 Premises revaluation 1 1 Cash ow hedges 18 20 2 Retirement bene t obligations 77 2 7 37 105 Sharebased payments 175 66 21 88 Other temporary differences 144 11 13 101 45 Net deferred tax assets 763 8 12 165 110 704 Financial statements and notes 245 27.
Deferred tax continued Deferred taxation comprises assets and liabilities as follows: 2012 2011 Total Asset Liability Total Asset Liability $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 128 15 143 47 114 67 Impairment provisions on loans and advances 151 319 168 19 196 215 Tax losses carried forward 477 404 73 433 401 32 Available-for-sale assets 86 51 35 3 18 15 Premises revaluation 1 1 Cash ow hedges 17 14 3 2 6 4 Retirement bene t obligations 108 103 5 105 98 7 Sharebased payments 80 67 13 88 63 25 Other temporary differences 55 152 97 45 60 105 530 691 161 704 835 131 Where permitted, deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset on an entity basis and not by component of deferred taxation.
At 31 December 2012, the Group has net deferred tax assets of $5 30 million 2011: $704 million.
The recoverability of the Groups deferred tax assets is based on managements judg ment of the availability of future taxable pro ts against which the deferred tax assets will be utilised.
Of the groups total deferred tax assets, $477 million relate to tax losses carried forward.
These tax losses have arisen in individual legal entities and will be offset as future taxable pro ts arise in those entities.
$238 million of these losses have arisen in the UK, where there is no expiry date for unused tax losses.
There is a fide ned pro t stream against which the losses are forecast to be fully utilised, over a period of 15 years.
$52 million of these losses have arisen in Ireland, where there is no expiry date for unused tax losses.
These losses relate to aircraft leasing and are expected to be fully utilised over the useful economical life of the assets, being up to 25 years.
$50 million of these losses have arisen in Taiwan.
Management forecasts show that the losses are expected to be fully utilised over a period of five years.
The tax losses expire after 10 years.
$40 million of these losses have arisen in Australia, where these is no expiry date for unused tax losses.
Management forecasts show that the losses are expected to be fully utilised over a period of 15 years.
The remaining losses relate to other jurisdictions and are expected to be recovered in less than five years.
2012 2011 $million $million No account has been taken of the following potential deferred taxation assets liabilities : Withholding tax on unremitted earnings from overseas subsidiaries 316 294 Foreign exchange movements on investments in branches 36 45 Tax losses 112 78 Held over gains on incorporations of overseas branches 496 476 246 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Deposits by banks 2012 2011 $million $million Deposits by banks 36,477 35,296 Deposits by banks included within: Financial liabilities held at fair value through pro t or loss note 15 968 1,092 37,445 36,388 29.
Customer accounts 1 2012 2011 $million $million Customer accounts 377,639 345,726 Customer accounts included within: Financial liabilities held at fair value through pro t or loss note 15 12,243 9,118 389,882 354,844 1 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 45 Included in customer accounts were deposits of $2,862 million 2011: $2,000 million held as collateral for irrevocable commitments under import letters of credit.
Debt securities in issue 2012 2011 Certi cates of Certi cates of deposit of Other debt deposit of Other debt $100,000 securities $100,000 securities or more in issue Total or more in issue Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Debt securities in issue 16,982 38,997 55,979 15,783 31,357 47,140 Debt securities in issue included within: Financial liabilities held at fair value through pro t or loss note 15 165 5,096 5,261 166 4,267 4,433 17,147 44,093 61,240 15,949 35,624 51,573 31.
Other liabilities 2012 2011 $million $million Financial liabilities held at amortised cost note 15 Notes in circulation 4,191 4,043 Acceptances and endorsements 5,053 5,473 Cash collateral 3,245 3,145 Unsettled trades and other financial liabilities 7,250 6,508 19,739 19,169 Nonfinancial liabilities Cash-settled share based payments 84 85 Other liabilities 4,681 4,580 24,504 23,834 Hong Kong currency notes in circulation of $4,191 million 2011: $4,043 million that are secured by the government of Hong Kong SAR certi cates of indebtedness of the same amount included in other assets note 22.
Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 2012 2011 $million $million Subordinated loan capital issued by subsidiary undertakings 675 million 5.375 per cent undated Step up subordinated notes callable and oating rate from 2020 781 730 600 million 8.103 per cent Step up callable Perpetual preferred securities callable and oating rate from 2016 1,177 1,154 700 million 7.75 per cent subordinated notes 2018 1,353 1,281 300 million 6.0 per cent subordinated notes 2018 callable and oating rate from 2013 488 488 200 million 7.75 per cent undated Step up subordinated notes callable and oating rate from 2022 446 419 1.1 billion 5.875 per cent subordinated notes 2017 1,706 1,662 750 million 3.625 per cent subordinated notes 2017 callable and oating rate from 2012 977 675 million oating rate subordinated notes 2018 callable 2013 890 886 $1.5 billion 9.5 per cent Step up perpetual preferred securities callable 2014 1,582 1,602 $1 billion 6.4 per cent subordinated notes 2017 1,188 1,193 $750 million 5.875 per cent subordinated notes 2020 847 763 $700 million 8.0 per cent subordinated notes 2031 675 683 $300 million oating rate subordinated notes 2017 callable 2012 300 $100 million oating rate subordinated notes 2018 callable 2013 100 100 $22 million 9.75 per cent xed to oating rate note 2021 callable and oating rate from 2016 23 25 BWP 127.26 million 8.2 per cent subordinated notes 2022 16 BWP 75 million oating rate subordinated notes 2017 callable 2013 10 10 BWP 70 million oating rate subordinated notes 2021 callable 2016 9 9 BWP 50 million oating rate notes 2022 callable 2017 6 IDR 1,800 billion 9.4 per cent subordinated notes 2019 81 IDR 1,750 billion 11 per cent subordinated notes 2018 76 82 IDR 700 billion 8.9 per cent subordinated notes 2019 32 JPY 10 billion 3.35 per cent subordinated notes 2023 callable 2018 128 149 KRW 300 billion 7.05 per cent subordinated debt 2019 callable 2014 280 260 KRW 270 billion 4.67 per cent subordinated debt 2021 callable 2016 252 235 KRW 260 billion 6.08 per cent subordinated debt 2018 callable 2013 244 230 KRW 90 billion 6.05 per cent subordinated debt 2018 95 86 KRW 30 billion oating rate subordinated debt 2011 26 MYR 500 million 4.28 per cent subordinated bonds 2017 callable and oating rate from 2012 157 PKR 2.5 billion oating rate notes 2022 callable 2017 26 PKR 1 billion oating rate notes 2013 3 8 SGD 750 million 4.15 per cent subordinated notes 2021 callable and oating rate from 2016 607 624 SGD 450 million 5.25 per cent subordinated notes 2023 callable and oating rate from 2018 408 376 TWD 10 billion 2.9 per cent subordinated debt 2019 callable 2014 348 337 TZS 10 billion 11 per cent subordinated notes 2021 callable and oating rate from 2015 6 6 UGX 40 billion 13 per cent subordinated notes 2020 callable 2015 15 16 13,898 14,874 Issued by Company: Primary capital oating rate notes $400 million 44 57 $300 million Series 2 80 81 $400 million Series 3 64 83 $200 million Series 4 50 51 150 million 50 233 750 million 3.625 per cent subordinated notes 2022 1,000 $1.25 billion 4.0 per cent subordinated notes 2022 callable 2017 1,255 $1 billion 5.7 per cent subordinated notes 2022 1,022 1,2 Other borrowings issued by company 1,336 1,338 4,901 1,843 Total for Group 18,799 16,717 1 In the balance sheet of the Company the amount recognised is $1,241 million 2011: $1,223 million with the difference being the effect of hedge accounting achieved on a Groupbasis 2 Other borrowings comprise irredeemable sterling preference shares no te 35 and US dollar non-cumulative redeemable preference shares 248 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 32.
Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds continued All subordinated liabilities are unsecured, unguaranteed and subordinated to the claims of other creditors including without limitation, customer deposits and deposits by banks.
The Group has the right to settle these debt instruments in certain circumstances as set out in the contractual agreements.
Of the total subordinated liabilities and other borrowings, $17,467 million is at xed interest rates 2011: $12,918 million.
On 25 January 2012, Standard Chartered PLC the Company issued $1 billion 5.7 per cent xed interest rate notes due January 2022.
On 15 June 2012, PT Bank Permata Tbk issued IDR 700 billion 8.9 per cent xed interest rate notes due June 2019.
On 27 June 2012, Standard Chartered Bank Botswana Limited issued BWP 50 million oating interest rate notes due June 2022 and BWP 127.26 million xed interest rate notes due June 2022.
On 29 June 2012, Standard Chartered Bank Pakistan Limited issued PKR 2.5 billion oating interest rate notes due June 2022.
On 12 July 2012, Standard Chartered PLC the Company issued $1.25 billion 4.0 per cent xed interest rate notes due July 2022 and on 23 November 2012, the Company issued EUR 750 million xed interest rate notes due November 2022.
On 19 December 2012, PT Bank Permata Tbk issued IDR 1,800 billion 9.4 per cent xed interest rate notes due December 2019.
On 2 January 2012, Standard Chartered Bank Korea Limited redeemed KRW 30 billion oating rate subordinated debt on maturity.
On 3 February 2012, Standard Chartered Bank exercised its right to redeem its EUR 750 million 3.625 per cent notes in full on the first optional call date.
On 13 April 2012, Standard Chartered Bank Hong Kong Limited exercised its right to redeem its $300 million oating rate subordinated notes in full on the first optional call date.
On 15 November 2012, Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad exercised its right to redeem its MYR 500 million 4.28 per cent subordinated bonds in full on the first optional call date.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Provision for credit Other commitments provisions Total $million $million $million At 1 January 2012 14 355 369 Exchange translation differences 1 1 Charge against pro t 5 105 110 Provisions utilised 10 275 265 At 31 December 2012 30 185 215 Provision for credit commitment comprises those undrawn contractually committed facilities where there is doubt as to the borrowers ability to meet their repayment obligations.
Other provisions include provisions for regulatory settlements, legal claims and restructuring.
Retirement bene t obligations Retirement bene t obligations comprise: 2012 2011 $million $million fide ned bene t schemes obligation 483 499 fide ned contribution schemes obligation 21 20 Net book amount 504 519 2012 2011 $million $million At 1 January 519 310 Exchange translation differences 14 5 Charge against pro t 302 282 Change in other comprehensive income 76 189 Net payments 407 257 At 31 December 504 519 Retirement bene t charge comprises: 2012 2011 $million $million fide ned bene t schemes 99 103 fide ned contribution schemes 203 179 Charge against pro t note 8 302 282 The disclosures required under IAS 19 have been calculated by quali ed independent actuaries based on the most recent full actuarial valuations updated, where necessary, to 31 December 2012.
Pension costs for the purpose of these accounts were assessed using the projected unit method and the assumptions set out below, which were based on market data at the date of calculation.
The principal assumptions relate to the rate of in ation and the discount rate.
The discount rate is equal to the yield on high-quality corporate bonds that have a term to maturity approximating that of the related liability.
UK Fund The financial position of the Groups principal retirement bene t scheme, the Standard Chartered Pension Fund the Fund a fide ned bene t scheme, is assessed in the light of the advice of an independent quali ed actuary.
The most recent actuarial assessment of the Fund for the purpose of funding was performed as at 31 December 2008 by A Zegleman, Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries, of Towers Watson, using the projected unit method.
The 31 December 2011 funding valuation is currently under way and its findings on updated life expectancies are re ected in the IAS 19 position at 31 December 2012.
Following the 31 December 2008 valuation, regular contributions to the Fund were set at 28 per cent of pensionable salary for all members.
Over 2012, additional contributions were paid under the terms of the 2008 valuation agreement, bringing the total amount paid to $52 million.
No further contributions are planned in 2013 under the terms of the 2008 valuation.
With effect from 1 July 1998, the Fund was closed to new entrants and new employees have subsequently been offered membership of a fide ned contribution scheme.
Due to the closure of the Fund to new entrants, it is expected that the current service cost will increase, as a percentage of pensionable pay, as the members approach retirement.
250 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 34.
Retirement bene t obligations continued Overseas Schemes The principal overseas fide ned bene t arrangements operated by the Group are in Germany, Hong Kong, India, Jersey, Korea, Taiwan and the US.
Employer contributions to fide ned bene t plans over 2013 are expected to be around $80 million.
The financial assumptions used at 31 December 2012 were: Funded fide ned bene t schemes 1 2 UK Fund Overseas Schemes 2012 2011 2012 2011 % % % % Price in ation 3.00 3.10 1.50-4.50 1.50-4.50 Salary increases 2.30 3.10 2.10-6.00 3.10-6.00 Pension increases 2.30 2.10 1.75-3.00 1.75-3.10 Discount rate 4.50 4.80 0.70-8.40 1.40-8.80 1 The assumptions for life expectancy for the UK Fund assumes that a male member currently aged 60 will live for 28 years 2011: 26 years and a female member 29 years 2011:29 years and a male member currently aged 40 will live for 30 years 2011: 29 years and a female member 31 years 2011: 31 years after their 60th birthday 2 The range of assumptions shown is for the main funded fide ned bene t overseas schemes in Germany, Hong Kong, India, Jersey, Korea, Taiwan and the US.
These comprise around 80 per cent of the total liabilities of funded overseas schemes These assumptions are likely to change in the future and thus will affect the value placed on the liability.
For example, if the discount rate for the UK Fund increased by 25 basis points the liability would reduce by approximately $65 million.
Whilst changes in other assumptions would also have an impact, the effect would not be as signi cant.
Unfunded schemes 3 4 Post-retirement medical Other 2012 2011 2012 2011 % % % % Price in ation 2.50 2.50 3.00-5.00 3.10-5.00 Salary increases 4.00 4.00 2.30-6.00 3.10-6.00 Pension increases N A N A 2.30 2.10 Discount rate 4.20 4.70 4.20-8.40 4.70-8.80 Post-retirement medical rate 9% in 2012 8% in 2011 N A N A reducing by reducing by 1% per annum 1% per annum to 5% in 2016 to 5% in 2014 3 The post-retirement medical plan is in the US 4 The range of assumptions shown is for the main unfunded schemes in India, Indonesia, UAE and the UK Financial statements and notes 251 34.
Retirement bene t obligations continued The assets and liabilities of the schemes, attributable to fide ned bene t members, at 31 December 2012 were: Funded fide ned bene t schemes Unfunded schemes UK Fund Overseas schemes Post-retirement medical Other Expected Expected Expected Expected return on Value return on Value return on Value return on Value 5 5 At 31 December 2012 assets % $million assets % $million assets % $million assets % $million Equities 8.00 382 6.30-16.00 254 N A N A N A N A Bonds 3.20 1,072 1.00-16.00 229 N A N A N A N A Property 7.50 58 5.25-16.00 8 N A N A N A N A Others 8.00 190 0.50-16.00 173 N A N A N A N A Total market value of assets 1,702 664 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,795 854 28 172 Net pension liability 93 190 28 172 5 IAS 19R removes the impact of expected asset returns on the income statement.
These gures are included here for presentational purposes and are set at the same level as the 31 December 2011 returns Funded fide ned bene t schemes Unfunded schemes UK Fund Overseas schemes Post-retirement medical Other Expected Expected Expected Expected return on Value return on Value return on Value return on Value At 31 December 2011 assets % $million assets % $million assets % $million assets % $million Equities 8.00 320 6.38-16.00 210 N A N A N A N A Bonds 3.20 889 1.00-16.00 208 N A N A N A N A Property 7.50 50 5.25-16.00 7 N A N A N A N A Others 8.00 276 0.50-16.00 158 N A N A N A N A Total market value of assets 1,535 583 N A N A 6 Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,609 832 28 148 Net pension liability 74 249 28 148 6 Includes $4 million impact as a result of IFRIC 14 unrecognisable surplus in Kenya Funded fide ned bene t schemes Unfunded schemes Overseas Post-retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Value Value Value Value At 31 December 2010 $million $million $million $million Total market value of assets 1,552 597 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,545 741 21 139 Net pension asset liability 7 144 21 139 At 31 December 2009 Total market value of assets 1,478 531 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,704 649 20 134 Net pension liability 226 118 20 134 At 31 December 2008 Total market value of assets 1,232 489 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,296 693 12 153 Net pension liability 64 204 12 153 The expected return on plan assets is set by reference to historical returns in each of the main asset classes, current market indicators such as longterm bond yields and the expected longterm strategic asset allocation of each plan.
252 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 34.
Retirement bene t obligations continued The pension cost for fide ned bene t schemes was: Funded fide ned bene t schemes Unfunded schemes PostOverseas retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2012 $million $million $million $million $million Current service cost 8 74 1 19 102 Past service cost 3 3 Gain on settlements and curtailments 6 6 Expected return on pension scheme assets 80 32 112 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 77 26 1 8 112 Total charge to pro t before deduction of tax 5 62 2 30 99 1 Gains on assets above expected return 53 22 75 Experience loss on liabilities 115 28 8 151 Total loss recognised directly in statement of comprehensive income before tax 62 6 8 76 Deferred taxation 14 14 Total loss after tax 48 6 8 62 1 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $133 million and on overseas scheme assets was $54 million The total cumulative amount recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income before tax to date is a loss of $376 million 2011: loss of $300 million.
Funded fide ned bene t schemes Unfunded schemes PostOverseas retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2011 $million $million $million $million $million Current service cost 8 74 1 18 101 Past service cost 2 1 3 Gain loss on settlements and curtailments 6 1 5 Expected return on pension scheme assets 86 34 120 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 85 30 1 8 124 Total charge to pro t before deduction of tax 9 65 2 27 103 1 Loss on assets below expected return 26 32 58 Experience loss on liabilities 58 61 7 5 131 Total loss recognised directly in statement of comprehensive income before tax 84 93 7 5 189 Deferred taxation 11 22 3 1 37 Total loss after tax 73 71 4 4 152 1 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $60 million and on overseas scheme assets was $2 million Financial statements and notes 253 34.
Retirement bene t obligations continued Funded fide ned bene t schemes Unfunded schemes PostOverseas retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2010 $million $million $million $million $million 1 Gain on assets in excess of expected return 42 17 59 Experience gain loss on liabilities 67 35 8 24 Total gain loss recognised directly in statement of comprehensive income before tax 109 18 8 83 Deferred taxation 30 12 1 17 Total gain loss after tax 79 6 7 66 Year ending 31 December 2009 2 Gain on assets below expected return 76 38 114 Experience loss gain on liabilities 236 4 7 25 264 Total loss gain recognised directly in statement of comprehensive income before tax 160 42 7 25 150 Deferred taxation 41 4 37 Total loss gain after tax 119 38 7 25 113 Year ending 31 December 2008 3 Loss on assets in excess of expected return 203 130 333 Experience gain loss on liabilities 143 35 4 104 Total loss recognised directly in statement of comprehensive income before tax 60 165 4 229 Deferred taxation 16 44 60 Total loss after tax 44 121 4 169 1 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $122 million and on overseas scheme assets was $48 million 2 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $159 million and on overseas scheme assets was $67 million 3 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $99 million and on overseas scheme assets was $94 million Movement in the fide ned bene t pension schemes and post retirement medical fide cit during the year comprise: Funded fide ned bene t schemes Unfunded schemes PostOverseas retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2012 $million $million $million $million $million fide cit at 1 January 2012 74 249 28 148 499 Contributions 52 139 2 11 204 Current service cost 8 74 1 19 102 Past service cost 3 3 Settlement curtailment costs 6 6 Other finance income charge 3 6 1 8 Actuarial loss 62 6 8 76 Exchange rate adjustment 4 12 3 13 fide cit at 31 December 2012 93 190 28 172 483 Movement in the fide ned bene t pension schemes and post retirement medical fide cit during the year comprise: Funded fide ned bene t schemes Unfunded schemes PostOverseas retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2011 $million $million $million $million $million Surplus fide cit at 1 January 2011 7 144 21 139 297 Contributions 10 46 1 20 77 Current service cost 8 74 1 18 101 Past service bene t cost 2 1 3 Settlement curtailment costs 6 1 5 Other finance income charge 1 4 1 8 4 Actuarial loss 84 93 7 5 189 Exchange rate adjustment 2 7 1 3 13 fide cit at 31 December 2011 74 249 28 148 499 254 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 34.
Retirement bene t obligations continued Movement in pension schemes and post-retirement medical gross assets and obligations during the year comprise: Assets Obligations Total Year ending 31 December 2012 $million $million $million fide cit as at 1 January 2012 2,118 2,617 499 Contributions 204 204 Current service cost 102 102 Past service cost 3 3 Settlement curtailment costs 72 78 6 Interest cost 112 112 Expected return on scheme assets 112 112 Bene ts paid out 151 151 Actuarial loss 75 151 76 Exchange rate adjustment 80 93 13 fide cit as at 31 December 2012 2,366 2,849 483 Assets Obligations Total Year ending 31 December 2011 $million $million $million fide cit as at 1 January 2011 2,149 2,446 297 Contributions 77 77 Current service cost 101 101 Past service cost 3 3 Settlement curtailment costs 19 24 5 Interest cost 124 124 Expected return on scheme assets 120 120 Bene ts paid out 140 140 Actuarial loss 58 131 189 Exchange rate adjustment 11 24 13 fide cit as at 31 December 2011 2,118 2,617 499 35.
Share capital, reserves and own shares Share capital In 2010, the Company amended its Articles of Association to remove the provision for authorised share capital following an amendment to corporate law in the UK through the Companies Act 2006.
The available pro ts of the company are distributed to the holders of the issued preference shares in priority to payments made to holders of the ordinary shares and in priority to, or pari passu with, any payments to the holders of any other class of shares in issue.
On a winding up, the assets of the Company are applied to the holders of the preference shares in priority to any payment to the ordinary shareholders and in priority to, or pari passu with, the holders of any other shares in issue, for an amount equal to any dividends accrued and or payable and the nominal value of the shares together with any premium as determined by the Board.
The redeemable preference shares are redeemable at the paid up amount which includes premium at the option of the Company in accordance with the terms of the shares.
The holders of the preference shares are not entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting except where any relevant dividend due is not paid in full or where a resolution is proposed varying the rights of the preference shares.
The nominal value of each ordinary share is 50 cents.
As at 31 December 2012, 477,500 $5 non-cumulative redeemable preference shares were in issue, of which 462,500 are classi ed within subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds and which includes a premium of $923 million.
The irredeemable preference shares of 1 each are also classi ed as other borrowed funds as required by the contingent settlement provisions of IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Share capital, reserves and own shares continued Group and Company Number of Ordinary Preference ordinary shares share capital share capital Total millions $million $million $million As at 1 January 2011 2,348 1,174 1,174 Capitalised on scrip dividend 25 12 12 Shares issued 11 6 6 As at 31 December 2011 2,384 1,192 1,192 Capitalised on scrip dividend 25 13 13 Shares issued 4 2 2 At 31 December 2012 2,413 1,207 1,207 2012 On 14 May 2012, the Company issued 6,961,782 new ordinary shares instead of the 2011 final dividend and on 11 October 2012 the Company issued 18,454,741 new ordinary shares instead of the 2012 interim dividend.
During the year, 3,559,652 new ordinary shares were issued under employee share plans at prices between nil and 1,46 3 pence.
2011 On 11 May 2011, the Company issued 23,196,890 new ordinary shares instead of the 2010 final dividend.
On 4 October 2011 the Company issued 1,274,109 new ordinary shares instead of the 2011 interim dividend.
During the year, 11,425,223 new ordinary shares were issued under employee share plans at prices between nil and 1,463 pence.
Reserves Transaction costs relating to share issues deducted from reserves account total $149 million 2011: $149 million.
The cumulative amount of goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiary and associated undertakings written off against Group reserves since 1973 is $27 million 2011: $27 million.
The premium of $923 million arising on the issue of the $5 non-cumulative redeemable preference shares classi ed within Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds is not included within the share premium account and forms part of the reported liability.
The capital reserve represents the exchange difference on redenomination of share capital and share premium from sterling to US dollars in 2001.
The capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of preference shares redeemed.
The merger reserve represents the premium arising on shares issued using a cash box nancing structure, which required the Company to create a merger reserve under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
Shares were issued using this structure in 2005 and 2006 to assist in the funding of certain acquisitions, in 2008 and 2010 for the shares issued by way of a rights issue, and for the shares issued in 2009 in the placing.
The funding raised by the 2008 and 2010 rights issues and 2009 share issue was retained within the Company.
The available-for-sale reserve represents the unrealised fair value gains and losses in respect of financial assets classi ed as available-for-sale, net of taxation.
Gains and losses are deferred in this reserve and are reclassi ed to the income statement when the underlying asset is sold, matures or becomes impaired.
The cash ow hedge reserve represents the effective portion of the gains and losses on derivatives that meet the criteria for these types of hedges.
Gains and losses are deferred in this reserve and are reclassi ed to the income statement when the underlying hedged item affects pro t and loss or when a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur.
The translation reserve represents the cumulative foreign exchange gains and losses on translation of the net investment of the Group in foreign operations.
Since 1 January 2004, gains and losses are deferred to this reserve and are reclassi ed to the income statement when the underlying foreign operation is disposed.
Gains and losses arising from derivatives used as hedges of net investments are netted against the foreign exchange gains and losses on translation of the net investment of the foreign operations.
Retained earnings represents pro ts and other comprehensive income earned by the Group and Company in the current and prior periods, together with the after tax increase relating to equity-settled share options, less dividend distributions and own shares held treasury shares.
A substantial part of the Groups reserves are held in overseas subsidiary undertakings and branches, principally to support local operations or to comply with local regulations.
The maintenance of local regulatory capital ratios could potentially restrict the amount of reserves that can be remitted.
In addition, if these overseas reserves were to be remitted, further unprovided taxation liabilities might arise.
256 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 35.
Share capital, reserves and own shares continued Own shares Bedell Cristin Trustees Limited is trustee of both the 1995 Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust the 1995 trust, which is an employee bene t trust used in conjunction with some of the Groups employee share schemes, and of the Standard Chartered 2004 Employee Bene t Trust the 2004 trust which is an employee bene t trust used in conjunction with the Groups deferred bonus plan.
The trustee has agreed to satisfy a number of awards made under the employee share schemes and the deferred bonus plan through the relevant employee bene t trust.
As part of these arrangements Group companies fund the trust, from time to time, to enable the trustee to acquire shares to satisfy these awards.
All shares have been acquired through the London Stock Exchange.
Except as disclosed, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has bought, sold or redeemed any securities of the company listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong during the year.
Details of the shares purchased and held by the trusts are set out below.
Non-controlling interests $300m 7.267% Other Hybrid Tier 1 non-controlling Securities interests Total $million $million $million At 1 January 2011 321 332 653 Expenses in equity attributable to non-controlling interests 28 28 Other pro ts attributable to non-controlling interests 22 62 84 Comprehensive income for the year 22 34 56 Distributions 23 46 69 Other increases 21 21 At 31 December 2011 320 341 661 Expenses in equity attributable to non-controlling interests 14 14 Other pro ts attributable to non-controlling interests 22 76 98 Comprehensive income for the year 22 62 84 Distributions 22 38 60 Other increases 8 8 At 31 December 2012 320 373 693 Financial statements and notes 257 37.
Sharebased payments The Group operates a number of sharebased arrangements for its directors and employees.
Details of the sharebased payment charge are set outbelow: 2012 2011 Cash Equity Total Cash Equity Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred share awards 32 292 324 17 264 281 Other share awards 5 45 50 4 115 111 Total share-ba sed payments 37 337 374 13 379 392 2011 Standard Chartered Share Plan the 2011 Plan Approved by shareholders in May 2011, this is the Groups main share plan applicable to all employees.
The 2011 Plan is designed to deliver performance shares, deferred awards and restricted shares, giving us suf cient exibility to meet the challenges of the changing regulatory and competitive environment.
Discretionary share awards are a key part of both executive directors and senior managements variable compensation and their signi cance as a proportion of potential total remuneration is one of the strongest indicators of our commitment to pay for sustainable performance and aligning reward with our risk horizon.
Further details regarding the 2011 Plan are included in the Directors remuneration report.
The remaining life of the plan is nine years.
Performance shares Awards vest after a threeyear period and are subject to three equally weighted albeit independently assessed performance measures, Total Shareholder Return TSR, Earnings Per Share EPS and Return on Risk Weighted Assets RoRWA.
The fair value of awards is based on the market value less an adjustment for the expected dividends over the vesting period and the relevant performance condition applying to that portion of the award.
Valuation The fair value of the TSR component is derived by discounting a third of the award by the loss of expected dividends over the performance period together with the probability of meeting the TSR condition, which is calculated by the area under the TSR vesting schedule curve.
The EPS fair value is derived by discounting onethird of the award respectively by the loss of expected dividends over the performance period.
The same approach is applied to calculate the RoRWA fair value for onethird of the award.
In respect of the EPS and RoRWA components, the number of shares expected to vest is adjusted for actual performance when calculating the sharebased payment charge for the year.
The same fair value applies to all employees including directors.
Deferred share awards Restricted shares Deferred awards are used to deliver the deferred portion of annual performance awards, in line with both market practice and the requirements of the FSA.
These awards are subject to a threeyear deferral period, vesting equally onethird on each of the first, second and third anniversaries.
Restricted share awards that are made outside of the annual performance process, as additional incentive or retention mechanisms, are provided as restricted shares under the 2011 Plan.
These awards typically vest in equal instalments on the second and the third anniversaries of the award date.
In a few circumstances, some awards vest over a fouryear period in equal tranches, this is in line with similar plans operated by our competitors.
Valuation The fair value, for all employees including directors, is based on the market value less an adjustment to take into account the expected dividends over the vesting period.
258 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 37.
Sharebased payments continued Deferred share awards 2012 2011 Grant date 20 June 13 March 22 June Share price at grant date 14.17 15.65 15.75 Vesting period years 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 Expected dividend yield % n a n a n a Fair value 14.17 15.65 15.75 Deferred awards accrue dividend equivalent payments during the vesting period.
Other restricted share awards 2012 2011 Grant date 21 December 19 September 20 June 13 March 14 December 20 September 22 June Share price at grant date 15.84 14.82 14.17 15.65 14.35 13.52 15.75 Vesting period years 2 3 1 2 3 4 2 3 2 3 2 3 2 3 2 3 2 3 Expected dividend yield % 3.7 3.0 3.8 3.8 2.9 2.9 4.1 Fair value 14.46 13.76 12.91 14.26 13.36 12.59 14.25 The expected dividend yield is based on the historical dividend for two and a half years prior to grant.
2000 Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 ESOS now closed to new grants The Group previously operated the 2000 ESOS for executive directors and selected senior managers.
Executive share options to purchase ordinary shares in Standard Chartered PLC were exercisable after the third, but before the tenth, anniversary of the date of grant subject to EPS performance criteria being satis ed.
The exercise price per share is the share price at the date of grant.
2001 Performance Share Plan PSP now closed to new grants The Groups previous plan for delivering performance shares was the PSP and there remain outstanding vested and unvested awards.
Under the PSP half the award is dependent upon TSR performance and the balance is subject to a target of fide ned EPS growth.
Both measures use the same three-year period and are assessed independently.
1997 2006 Restricted Share Scheme 2006 RSS 2007 Supplementary Restricted Share Scheme 2007 SRSS The Groups previous plans for delivering restricted shares were the 2006 RSS and 2007 SRSS both now replaced by the 2011 Plan.
There are still unvested and vested awards outstanding under these plans.
Awards were generally in the form of nil cost options and do not have any performance conditions.
Generally deferred restricted share awards vest equally over three years and for non-deferred awards half vests two years after the date of grant and the balance after three years.
No further awards will be granted under the 2006 RSS and 2007 SRSS.
2004 Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Under the DBP, shares are conditionally awarded as part of certain executive directors annual performance award.
Awards under the DBP are made in very limited circumstances to a small number of employees.
Further details are contained in the Directors remuneration report.
The remaining life of the plan is two years.
All Employee Sharesave Plan Sharesave Under the Sharesave plans, employees have the choice of opening a three-year savings contract.
Within a period of six months after the third or fifth anniversary, as appropriate, employees may purchase ordinary shares in the Company.
A discount of up to 20 per cent on the share price at the date of invitation.
There are no performance conditions attached to options granted under the Sharesave plans.
In some countries in which the Group operates, it is not possible to operate Sharesave plans, typically due to securities law and regulatory restrictions.
In these countries the Group offers an equivalent cash-based plan to its employees.
The remaining life of the Sharesave plans is two years.
Valuation Options under the Sharesave plans are valued using a binomial option-pricing model.
The same fair value is applied to all employees including directors.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2012 2011 Grant date 11 October 1 October 11 October 4 October Share price at grant date 13.95 14.35 14.11 11.70 Exercise price 11.40 11.40 10.65 10.65 Vesting period years 33 3 5 3 5 Expected volatility % 29.8 30.0 53.8 45.8 53.3 45.5 Expected option life years 3.33 3.33 3.33 5.33 3.33 5.33 Risk free rate % 0.4 0.4 0.9 1.4 0.7 1.2 Expected dividend yield % 3.1 3.1 3.9 3.5 3.9 3.5 Fair value 3.28 3.53 5.46 5.39 3.87 3.87 The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the past three to five years, or three to five years prior to grant.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK Government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
The expected dividend yield is based on historical dividend for three years prior to grant.
Where two amounts are shown for volatility, risk free rates, expected dividend yield and fair values, the first relates to a threeyear vesting period and the second to a five-y ear vesting period.
89 10.48-11.04 Intrinsic value of vestedbut not exercised options $million 2 8 3 Weighted average contractual remaining life years 8.8 2 6.19 6.57 4.52 4.09 0.97 2.53 Weighted average share price for options exercised during the period 14.39 15.59 15.66 15.64 15.97 14.94 14.87 1 Employees do not contribute towards the cost of these awards 2 Notes: a The market value of shares on date of awards 13 March 2012 was 1,6 0 5 pence b The shares vest one year after the date of award c A notional scrip dividend accrues on the shares held in the Trust.
The dividend is normally delivered in the form of shares and is released on vesting Reconciliation of option movements for the year to 31 December 2011 1 2011 Plan Weighted Weighted average average Deferred exercise exercise Performance Restricted price price 1 1 1 1,2 shares shares PSP RSS SRSS DBP ESOS Sharesave Outstanding at 1January 9,571,846 24,500,160 13,885,072 383,985 1,386,144 7.01 14,818,577 11.33 Granted 4,195,006 635,136 12,500,000 250,000 70,255 5,927,063 10.65 Lapsed 35,163 3,611 1,134,210 1,094,879 121,192 1,777,148 11.31 Exercised 1,576,869 5,833,733 6,903,430 398,445 427,768 6.71 3,586,853 9.74 Outstanding at 31December 4,159,843 631,525 6,860,767 30,071,548 7,110,450 55,795 958,376 7.10 15,381,639 11.42 Exercisable at 31December 1,035,851 2,354,817 1,633,368 958,376 7.10 1,859,857 9.72 Range of exerciseprices 5.82-8.77 8.32-14.63 Intrinsic value of vestedbut not exercised options $million 9 10 4 1 7 Weighted average contractual remaining life years 9.35 6.67 7.18 5.25 4.85 1.70 2.53 Weighted average share price for options exercised during the period 15.61 15.74 15.76 16.64 15.04 14.81 1 Employees do not contribute towards the cost of these awards 2 Notes: a The market value of shares on date of awards 8 March 2011 was 1,6 80 pence b The shares vest one year after the date of award c A notional scrip dividend accrues on the shares held in the Trust.
The dividend is normally delivered in the form of shares and is released on vesting 260 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 38.
Cash ow statement Adjustment for non-cash items and other adjustments included within income statement Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 $million $million $million $million Amortisation of discounts and premiums of investment securities 442 173 Interest expense on subordinated liabilities 582 474 186 104 Interest expense on senior debts liabilities 418 809 228 Other non-cash items 125 204 143 3 Pension costs for fide ned bene t schemes 99 103 Share based payment costs 3 74 392 UK bank levy 10 69 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 1,221 908 Dividend income from subsidiaries 1,433 1,176 Other impairment 194 111 Pro t from associates 116 74 Total 2,46 5 2,823 1,390 841 Change in operating assets Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 $million $million $million $million Decrease increase in derivative financial instruments 9,441 21,617 401 160 Increase in debt securities, treasury bills and equity shares held at fair value through pro t or loss 3,121 2,373 Increase in loans and advances to banks and customers 19,13 5 38,771 Increase in pre-payments and accrued income 34 440 Increase decrease in other assets 3, 033 4,810 3 17 184 Total 1 5,882 68,011 7 18 24 Change in operating liabilities Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 $million $million $million $million Decrease increase in derivative financial instruments 9,726 20,266 43 48 Net increase in deposits from banks, customer accounts, debt securities inissue, Hong Kong notes in circulation and short positions 35,941 55,069 4,286 598 Increase decrease in accruals and deferred income 113 217 123 22 Increase decrease in other liabilities 88 2,926 738 4 Total 2 6,416 78,478 5,104 524 39.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash, on demand and overnight balances with central banks unless restricted and balances with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition, including: treasury bills and other eligible bills, loans and advances to banks, and short-term government securities.
The following balances with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition have been identi ed by the Group as being cash and cash equivalents.
Restricted balances comprise minimum balances required to be held at central banks.
Group Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 $million $million $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 61,043 47,364 Less restricted balances 9,336 9,961 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 3,101 3,244 Loans and advances to banks 24,485 27,470 Trading securities 1,307 2,333 Amounts owed by and due to subsidiary undertakings 16,8 79 15,878 Total 80,600 70,450 16,8 79 15,878 Financial statements and notes 261 40.
Capital commitments Capital expenditure approved by the directors but not provided for in these accounts amounted to: 2012 2011 $million $million Contracted 51 9 41.
Operating lease commitments 2012 2011 Premises Equipment Premises Equipment $million $million $million $million Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 336 4 290 2 Later than one year and less than five years 755 5 637 2 After five years 806 479 1,897 9 1,406 4 During the year $443 million 2011: $393 million was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases.
The Group leases various premises and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 December 2012 is $6 million 2011: $2 million.
Contingent liabilities and commitments The table below shows the contract or underlying principal amounts and risk weighted amounts of unmatured off-balance sheet transactions att he balance sheet date.
The contract or underlying principal amounts indicate the volume of business outstanding and do not represent amounts at risk.
2012 2011 $million $million 1 Contingent liabilities Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 34,281 27,022 Other contingent liabilities 10, 168 15,858 44, 449 42,880 1 Commitments Documentary credits and shortterm trade-related transactions 7,752 8,612 Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 711 733 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend: One year and over 39,309 28,507 Less than one year 17,388 24,193 Unconditionally cancellable 110,138 88,652 17 5,298 150,697 1 Includes amounts relating to the Groups share of its joint ventures Contingent liabilities Where the Group undertakes to make a payment on behalf of its customers for guarantees issued such as for performance bonds or as irrevocable letters of credit as part of the Groups transaction banking business for which an obligation to make a payment has not arisen at the reporting date, those are included in these financial statements as contingent liabilities.
Other contingent liabilities primarily include revocable letters of credit and bonds issued on behalf of customers to customs of cials, for bids or offers and as shipping guarantees.
The Group receives legal claims against it in a number of jurisdictions arising in the normal course of business.
The Group considers none of these matters as material either individually or in aggregate.
Where appropriate the Group recognises a provision for liabilities when it is probable that an out ow of economic resources embodying economic bene ts will be required and for which a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation see note 33.
The Group seeks to comply with all applicable laws and regulations but may be subject to regulatory actions and interventions across our markets, the outcome of which are generally dif cult to predict and can be material to the Group.
Commitments Where the Group has con rmed its intention to provide funds to a customer or on behalf of a customer in the form of loans, overdrafts, future guarantees whether cancellable or not or letters of credit and the Group has not made payments at the balance sheet date, those instruments are included in these financial statements as commitments.
262 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 43.
Special purpose entities The Group uses Special Purpose Entities SPEs in the normal course of business across a variety of activities.
SPEs are established for speci c limited purposes and take a number of legal forms.
The main types of activities for which the Group utilises SPEs cover synthetic credit default swaps for portfolio management purposes, managed investment funds including specialised principal finance funds and structured finance.
SPEs are only consolidated when the Group has control of the SPE.
Control is assessed based on the Groups exposure to the majority of the risks of the SPE and the right to obtain the majority of the bene ts of the SPE.
The assessment of risks and bene ts is based on the assessed risk exposures at inception and these risks and bene ts are re-considered if and when circumstances change.
These circumstances may include situations when the Group acquires additional interests in the SPE, or the Group acquires control of the financial and operating policies of the SPE.
Most of the Groups consolidated SPEs are in respect of the Groups securitised portfolios of residential mortgages see page 94 of the Risk review.
The total assets of unconsolidated SPEs in which the Group has an interest are set out below.
2012 2011 Total Maximum Total Maximum assets exposure assets exposure $million $million $million $million Portfolio management vehicles 1,267 44 1,136 130 1 Principal Finance Funds 766 181 1,089 131 Structured finance 464 103 291 99 2,497 328 2,516 360 1 Committed capital for these funds is $375 million 2011: $375 million of which $145 million 2011: $129 million has been drawn down net of provisions for impairment of$ 33 million 2011: $33 million For the purposes of portfolio management, the Group has entered into synthetic credit default swaps with note-issuing SPEs.
The referenced assets remain on the Groups balance sheet as the credit risk is not transferred to these SPEs.
The Group continues to own or hold all of the risks and returns relating to these assets and the credit protection afforded by the synthetic securitisation only serves to protect the Group against losses upon the occurrence of certain credit events, the assets are not fide-recognised from the Group balance sheet.
The Groups exposure arises from a the capitalised start-up costs in respect of the swap vehicles and b interest in the first loss notes and investment in a minimal portion of the mezzanine and senior rated notes issued by the note issuing SPEs.
The proceeds of the notes issuance are typically invested in AAA-rated Government securities, which are used to collateralise the SPEs swap obligations to the Group, and to repay the principal to investors at maturity.
The SPEs reimburse the Group on actual losses incurred, through the realisation of the collateral security.
Correspondingly, the SPEs write down the notes issued by an equal amount of the losses incurred, in reverse order of seniority.
All the funding is committed for the life of these vehicles and hence the Group has no indirect exposure in respect of the vehicles liquidity position.
The Groups exposure to Principal Finance Funds represents committed or invested capital in unleveraged investment funds, primarily investing in pan-Asian infrastructure and real estate.
Structured finance comprises interests in transactions that the Group or, more usually, a customer has structured, using one or more SPEs, which provide bene cial arrangements for customers.
The Groups exposure primarily represents the provision of funding to these structures as a financial intermediary, for which it receives a lenders return.
The transactions largely relate to the provision of aircraft leasing and ship finance.
The Group has reputational risk in respect of certain portfolio management vehicles and investment funds either because the Group is the arranger and lead manager or because the SPEs have Standard Chartered branding.
Post balance sheet events Tax On 5 December 2012, the UK government announced a further reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax of 1 per cent with effect from 1 April 2014, in addition to the stepped reductions as previously announced.
The combined effect of the reductions is to lower the main rate of UK corporation tax to 24 per cent in 2012-13, to 23 per cent in 2013-14, and 21 per cent in 2014-15.
At 31 December 2012, only the further tax rate change for 2013-14 to 23 per cent had been substantively enacted.
Had the further rate change for 2014-15 been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, the Group estimates that the UK deferred tax assets would have reduced by a further $24 million.
Restatement of prior year The Group has re-presented certain balances in the consolidated balance sheet to re ect the effect of enhanced system capabilities introduced during the year.
The Group has also re-presented the entity-wide geographic disclosures following the transfer of the governance of its franchise in Mauritius from Other Asia Paci c to Africa to align with Groups overall strategy in Africa.
The impact of these changes has required: i gross up of loans and advances to customers Mortgages and customer deposit accounts Interest-bearing current accounts that were previously recorded net: ii netting of certain interest rate derivatives that were previously shown gross: and iii change of the Groups entity-wide geographic disclosures to re ect the transfer of Mauritius from Other Asia Paci c to Africa.
For consistency, comparative balances have also been re-presented on a similar basis to enhance the comparability of information presented.
Balance sheet As reported Restated at 2011 Restated at 2011 $million $million $million Loans and advances to customers 263,765 3,025 266,790 Customer accounts 342,701 3,025 345,726 Derivative asse ts 67,933 9,409 58,524 Derivative liabilit ies 65,926 9,409 56,517 Total assets 599,070 6,384 592,686 Total liabilities 557,695 6,384 551,311 Entity-wide geographic regions Note 2 Segmental information Other Americas Hong Kong Singapore Asia Paci c India Africa UK & Europe $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances to customers As reported at 2011 50,541 42,574 54,196 23,379 10,004 Mortgage restatement 455 1,253 1,010 307 Mauritius geographic change 1,227 1,227 Restated at 2011 50,996 43,827 53,979 23,686 11,231 Total assets employed As reported at 2011 117,245 102,768 115,588 42,300 17,276 157,473 Mortgage restatement 455 1,253 1,010 307 Derivative restatement 9,409 Mauritius geographic change 3,127 3,127 Restated at 2011 117,700 104,021 113,471 42,607 20,403 148,064 Customer accounts Current accounts As reported at 2011 87,253 63,053 70,657 12,757 8,835 Deposit restatement 455 1,253 1,010 307 Mauritius geographic change 670 670 Restated at 2011 87,708 64,306 70,997 13,064 9,505 Deposit by banks As reported at 2011 5,881 532 Mauritius geographic change 37 37 Restated at 2011 5,844 569 Other Asia Paci c Africa Region As reported As restated As reported As restated at 2011 Restated at 2011 at 2011 Restated at 2011 $million $million $million $million $million $million Operating income 3,553 42 3,511 1,340 42 1,382 Operating expenses 2,076 11 2,065 703 11 714 Loan impairment 134 1 135 25 1 24 Other impairment 31 31 16 16 Pro t from associates 73 73 Pro t before tax 1,447 32 1,415 596 32 628 264 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 45.
Restatement of prior year continued Loans and advances to customers Risk review disclosure Other Hong Kong Singapore Asia Paci c India Africa $million $million $million $million $million As reported at 2011 50,459 47,535 51,835 10,846 6,068 Mortgage restatement 455 1,253 1,010 307 Mauritius geographic change 1,227 1,227 Restated at 2011 50,914 48,788 51,618 11,153 7,295 46.
Related party transactions Directors and of cers Details of directors remuneration and interests in shares are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report.
IAS 24 Related party disclosures requires the following additional information for key management compensation.
Key management comprises non-executive directors and members of the Group Management Committee from January 2013, the Executive Management Group, which includes all executive directors.
2012 2011 $million $million Salaries, allowances and bene ts in kind 21 20 Pension contributions 6 5 Bonuses paid or receivable 10 11 Sharebased payments 35 39 72 7 5 The 2011 salaries, allowances and bene ts in kind gure has been restated to include part of Sir John Peaces annual fee that is delivered in restricted shares.
Transactions with directors, of cers and others At 31 December 2012, the total amounts to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 the Act and the Listing Rules of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Limited HK Listing Rules about loans to directors and of cers were as follows: 2012 2011 Number $000 Number $000 Directors 4 4,898 2 2,550 1 Of cers 1 18 2 3,064 1 For this disclosure the term of cers means the members of the Group Management Committee, other than those who are directors of Standard Chartered PLC and the Group Company Secretary As at 31 December 2012, Standard Chartered Bank had created a charge over $43 million 2011: $42 million of cash assets in favour of the independent trustee of its employer nanced retirement bene t scheme.
Other than as disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts, there were no other transactions, arrangements or agreements outstanding for any director, connected person or of cer of the Company that have to be disclosed under the Act, the rules of the UK Listing Authority or the HK Listing Rules.
Associates The Group has loans and advances to Merchant Solutions and China Bohai Bank totalling $29 million and $32 million respectively at 31 December 2012 2011: $39 million and $172 million respectively and amounts payable to Merchant Solutions and China Bohai Bank of $21 million and $16 million respectively at 31 December 2012 2011: $30 million and $10 million respectively.
Joint ventures The Group has loans and advances to PT Bank Permata Tbk totalling $18 million at 31 December 2012 2011: $7 million, and deposits of $23 million 2011: $29 million.
The Group has investments in subordinated debt issued by PT Bank Permata Tbk of $128 million 2011: $132 million.
Company The Company has received $510 million 2011: $318 million of interest income from Standard Chartered Bank.
The Company issues debt externally and lends proceeds to Group companies.
At 31 December 2012, it had loans to and debt instruments issued by Standard Chartered Bank of $23,604 million 2011: $17,625 million, derivative financial assets of $1,002 million 2011: $601 million and no derivative financial liabilities 2011: $43 million with Standard Chartered Bank, loans of $1,770 million 2011: $1,731 million to Standard Chartered Holdings Limited.
In 2006, the Company licensed intellectual property rights related to the Companys main brands to an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, Standard Chartered Strategic Brand Management Limited, the income from which is held on the Companys balance sheet and released over the term of licence, which expires in 2015.
At 31 December 2012, $54 million 2011: $72 million has been included as deferred income in the Company balance sheet in relation to this licence.
The Company has an agreement with Standard Chartered Bank that in the event of Standard Chartered Bank defaulting on its debt coupon interest payments, where the terms of such debt requires it, the Company shall issue shares as settlement for non-payment of the coupon interest.
Standard Chartered PLC Company Classi cation and measurement of financial instruments 2012 2011 Derivatives held Amortised Derivatives held Amortised for hedging cost Total for hedging cost Total Financial assets $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivatives 1,002 1,002 601 601 Debt securities 8,835 8,835 4,025 4,025 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 16,8 79 16,8 79 15,878 15,878 Total at 31 December 1,002 25, 714 26,7 16 601 19,903 20,504 Derivatives held for hedging are held at fair value, are classi ed as Level 2 and counterparty is Standard Chartered Bank.
Debt securities comprise corporate securities issued by Standard Chartered Bank with a fair value of $8,876 million 2011: $4,062 million.
In 2011 and 2012, amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings have a fair value equal to carrying value.
2012 2011 Derivatives held Amortised Derivatives held Amortised for hedging cost Total for hedging cost Total Financial liabilities $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivatives 43 43 Debt securities in issue 14,534 14,534 11,374 11,374 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 4,806 4,806 1,728 1,728 Total at 31 December 19,340 19,340 43 13,102 13,145 Derivatives held for hedging are held at fair value, are classi ed as level 2 and counterparty is Standard Chartered Bank.
The fair value of debt securities in issue is $15,563 million 2011: $11,374 million.
The fair value of subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds is $4,953 million 2011: $1,584 million.
Derivative financial instruments 2012 2011 Notional Notional principal principal amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities Total derivatives $million $million $million $million $million $million Foreign exchange derivative contracts: Currency swaps 9,224 663 5,180 326 43 Interest rate derivative contracts: Swaps 7,500 339 5,250 275 Total derivatives 16,724 1,002 10,430 601 43 Credit risk Maximum exposure to credit risk 2012 2011 $million $million Derivative financial instruments 1,002 601 Investment securities 8,835 4,025 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 16,8 79 15,878 26,7 16 20,504 In 2011 and 2012, amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings were neither past due nor impaired: the Company had no individually impaired loans.
In 2011 and 2012, the Company had no impaired debt securities.
The debt securities held by the Group are issued by Standard Chartered Bank, a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking with a credit rating of AAto AA.
266 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Notes to the financial statements continued 47.
Standard Chartered PLC Company continued Liquidity risk The following table analyses the residual contractual maturity of the assets and liabilities of the Company, on a discounted basis: 2012 Between Three three Between More than months months and one year and five years and or less one year five years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million Assets Derivative financial instruments 741 261 1,002 Investment securities 250 8,585 8,835 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 16,8 79 16,8 79 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 14,369 14,369 Other assets 115 115 Total assets 250 741 40, 209 41, 200 Liabilities Debt securities in issue 56 459 12,638 1,381 14,534 Other liabilities 392 392 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 41 71 470 4,224 4,806 Total liabilities 97 530 13,108 5,997 19,732 Net liquidity gap 97 280 12,367 34, 212 21,4 68 2011 Between Three three Between More than months months and one year and five years and or less one year five years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million Assets Loans and advances to customers 325 276 601 Investment securities 250 3,775 4,025 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 15,878 15,878 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 14,291 14,291 Other assets 45 45 Total assets 575 34,265 34,840 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 43 43 Debt securities in issue 11,374 11,374 Other liabilities 69 68 218 355 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 915 813 1,728 Total liabilities 69 12,400 1,031 13,500 Net liquidity gap 69 11,825 33,234 21,340 Financial statements and notes 267 47.
Standard Chartered PLC Company continued Financial liabilities excluding derivative financial instruments on an undiscounted basis 2012 2011 Between Between three Between More than three Between More than Three months one year five years Three months one year five years months and and and months and and and or less one year five years undated or less one year five years undated $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Debt securities in issue 56 460 14,026 1,444 2 107 11,649 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 41 77 471 6,08 9 1 102 1,264 813 Other liabilities 20 3 68 127 Total liabilities 97 537 14,497 7,73 6 3 209 12,981 940 Derivative financial instruments on an undiscounted basis Derivative financial instruments include those net settled derivative contracts in a net liability position, together with the pay leg of gross settled contracts regardless of whether the overall contract is in an asset or liability position.
The receiving leg is not shown in this table and as a result the derivative amounts in this table are in ated by their exclusion.
2012 2011 Between Between three Between More than three Between More than Three months one year five years Three months one year five years months and and and months and and and or less one year five years undated or less one year five years undated $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivative financial instruments 43 201 722 335 21 142 495 268 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Supplementary information Zambia Standard Chartered first opened in Zambia in 1906 in the Kalomo district.
As the oldest financial institution in the country, we are an integral part of the Zambian economy Supplementary information 269 Supplementary financial information 27 0 Shareholder information 285 Glossary 287 Major awards 29 1 Index 295
