Supplementary information 285 Shareholder information Dividend and interest payment dates Final Interim dividend Ordinary shares dividend provisional only Results and dividend announced 5 March 2013 6 August 2013 Ex dividend date 13 March 2013 14 August 2013 Record date for dividend 15 March 2013 16 August 2013 Last date to elect for share dividend or to change standing instructions 29 April 2013 1 October 2013 Dividend payment date 14 May 2013 1 7 October 2013 Preference shares 1st halfyearly dividend 2nd halfyearly dividend 3 7 8 per cent Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 1 April 2013 1 October 2013 1 8 4 per cent Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 1 April 2013 1 October 2013 6.409 per cent Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each 30 January 2013 30 July 2013 7.014 per cent Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each 30 January 2013 30 July 2013 8.125 per cent Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each 27 May 2013 27 November 2013 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 1 1.00 a m London time 6.00 pm Hong Kong time on Wednesday 8 May 2013 at etc.
venues, 200 Aldersgate, St Pauls, London, EC1A 4HD.
Details of the business to be transacted at the AGM are included in the accompanying Notice of AGM.
Details of voting at the Companys AGM and of proxy votes cast can be found on the Companys website at http: investors.
Interim results The interim results will be announced to the London Stock Exchange, the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, the Bombay Stock Exchange and the National Stock Exchange of India and put on the Companys website.
ShareCare ShareCare is available to shareholders on the Companys UK register who have a UK address and bank account, and allows you to hold your Standard Chartered shares in a nominee account.
Your shares will be held in electronic form so you will no longer have to worry about keeping your share certi cates safe.
If you join ShareCare you will still be invited to attend the Companys AGM and receive your dividend at the same time as everyone else.
ShareCare is free to join and there are no annual fees to pay.
If you would like to receive more information please visit our website at http: investors.
cfm or contact the shareholder helpline on 0870 702 0138.
An alternative is to consider donating looking statements that are based on current expectations or them to the charity ShareGift registered charity 1052686, which beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events.
These forward collects donations of unwanted shares until there are enough to sell looking statements can be identi ed by the fact that they do not and uses the proceeds to support UK charities.
Further information relate only to historical or current facts.
Forward looking statements can be obtained from the Companys Registrars or from ShareGift often use words such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, on 020 7930 3737 or from www.
There is no plan, goal, believe, will, may, should, would, could or other words of implication for Capital Gains Tax no gain or loss when you donate similar meaning.
Undue reliance should not be placed on any such shares to charity and UK taxpayers may be able to claim income statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known tax relief on the value of their donation.
and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and the Groups plans and objectives, to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS forward looking statements.
Dividends can be paid straight into your bank or building society account.
Please register online at www.
co. uk or There are several factors that could cause actual results to differ contact our registrar for a mandate form.
materially from those expressed or implied in forward looking statements.
Among the factors that could cause actual results to Registrars and shareholder enquiries differ materially from those described in the forward looking If you have any enquiries relating to your shareholding and you hold statements are changes in the global, political, economic, business, your shares on the United Kingdom register, please contact our competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 7ZY shareholder helpline number combinations or dispositions.
If you hold your shares on the Hong Kong branch The Group undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward register please contact Computershare Hong Kong Investor looking statement contained within this document, regardless of Services Limited at 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road whether those statements are affected as a result of new East, Wan Chai, Hong Kong.
You can check your shareholding at: information, future events or otherwise.
com Chinese translation If you would like a Chinese version of the 2012 Report and Accounts please contact: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited at 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road East, Wan Chai, Hong Kong.
Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register who have asked to receive the Report and Accounts in either Chinese or English can change this election by contacting Computershare.
If there is a dispute between any translation and the English version of this Report and Accounts, the English text shall prevail.
Taxation Information on taxation applying to dividends paid to you if you are a shareholder in the United Kingdom, Hong Kong or the United States will be sent to you with your dividend documents.
Electronic communications If you hold your shares on the United Kingdom register and in future you would like to receive the Report and Accounts electronically rather than by post, please register online at: www.
Then click on Register and follow the instructions.
You will need to have your Shareholder or ShareCare Reference number when you log on.
You can nd this on your share certi cate or ShareCare statement.
Once registered you can also submit your proxy vote and dividend election electronically and change your bank mandate or address information.
