Supplementary information 287 Glossary Advances-to-deposits ratio Commercial Paper CP The ratio of total loans and advances to customers relative to total An unsecured promissory note issued to finance short-term customer deposits.
A low advances-to-deposits ratio demonstrates credit needs.
It speci es the face amount paid to investors on the that customer deposits exceed customer loans resulting from maturity date.
emphasis placed on generating a high level of stable funding Commercial real estate from customers.
Includes of ce buildings, industrial property, medical centres, Asset Backed Securities ABS hotels, malls, retail stores, shopping centres, farm land, multifamily Securities that represent an interest in an underlying pool of housing buildings, warehouses, garages, and industrial properties.
The referenced pool can comprise any assets Commercial real estate loans are those backed by a package of that attract a set of associated cash ows but are commonly commercial real estate assets.
pools of residential or commercial mortgages and in the case Constant currency of Collateralised Debt Obligations CDOs, the reference pool Constant currency change is derived by applying a simple translation may be ABS.
of the previous period functional currency number in each entity Advanced Internal Rating Based AIRB approach using the current average and period end US dollar exchange The AIRB approach under the Basel II framework is used to rates to the income statement and balance sheet respectively.
calculate credit risk capital based on the Groups own estimates Contractual maturity of certain parameters.
Contractual maturity refers to the final payment date of a loan or ASEAN other financial instrument, at which point all the remaining Association of South East Asian Nations ASEAN, which includes outstanding principal will be repaid and interest is due to be paid.
the Groups operation in Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Core Tier 1 Capital Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.
Core Tier 1 capital comprises called-up ordinary share capital Attributable pro t to ordinary shareholders and eligible reserves plus non-controlling interests, less goodwill Pro t for the year after non-controlling interests and the declaration and other intangible assets and deductions relating to excess of dividends on preference shares classi ed as equity.
expected losses over eligible provisions and securitisation positions as speci ed by the UKs Financial Services Authority FSA.
Basel II The capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel Committee Core Tier 1 Capital ratio on Banking Supervision BCBS in June 2006 in the form of Core Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk weighted assets.
the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Cost to income ratio Capital Standards.
Represents the proportion of total operating expenses to total Basel III operating income.
In December 2010, the BCBS issued the Basel III rules text, which Cover ratio presents the details of strengthened global regulatory standards Represents the extent to which non-performing loans are on bank capital adequacy and liquidity.
The new requirements covered by impairment allowances.
are being phased in from 1 January 2013 with full implementation by 31December 2019.
Covered bonds Debt securities backed by a portfolio of mortgages that are Basis point bp segregated from the issuers other assets solely for the bene t One hundredth of a percentage point 0.01 per cent : 100 basis of the holders of the covered bonds.
Used in quoting movements in interest rates or yields on securities.
Credit Conversion Factor CCF CCF is an internally modelled parameter based on historical CAD2 experience to determine the amount that is expected to be further An amendment to Capital Adequacy Directive that gives national drawn down from the undrawn portion in a committed facility.
regulators the discretion to permit rms to use their own value at risk model for calculating capital requirements subject to certain criteria.
Credit Default Swaps CDSs A credit derivative is an arrangement whereby the credit risk of Collateralised Debt Obligations CDOs an asset the reference asset is transferred from the buyer to the Securities issued by a third party that reference ABS and or certain seller of protection.
A credit default swap is a contract where the other related assets purchased by the issuer.
CDOs may feature protection seller receives premium or interest-related payments in exposure to sub-prime mortgage assets through the underlying return for contracting to make payments to the protection buyer assets.
upon a fide ned credit event.
Credit events normally include Collateralised Loan Obligation CLO bankruptcy, payment default on a reference asset or assets, A security backed by the repayments from a pool of commercial or downgrades by a rating agency.
The payments may be made to different classes of owners Credit risk spread in tranches.
The credit spread is the yield spread between securities with Collectively assessed loan impairment provisions the same coupon rate and maturity structure but with different Also known as portfolio impairment provisions.
Impairment associated credit risks, with the yield spread rising as the credit assessment on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of loans rating worsens.
It is the premium over the benchmark or risk-free that are not considered individually signi cant and to cover losses rate required by the market to take on a lower credit quality.
that have been incurred but have not yet been identi ed at the Credit valuation adjustments CVA balance sheet date.
Typically assets within the Consumer Banking An adjustment to fair value primarily in respect of derivative business are assessed on a portfolio basis.
contracts that re ects the possibility that the counterparty may Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities CMBS default such that the Group would not receive the full market value Securities that represent interests in a pool of commercial of the transactions.
Investors in these securities have the right to cash received from future mortgage payments interest and or principal.
288 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Glossary continued Customer deposits Foundation Internal Ratings Based Approach Money deposited by all individuals and companies that are A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using not credit institutions.
Such funds are recorded as liabilities internal PD models but with supervisory estimates of LGD and in the Groups balance sheet under Customer accounts.
conversion factors for the calculation of EAD.
Debt restructuring Funded unfunded exposures This is when the terms and provisions of outstanding debt Exposures where the notional amount of the transaction is funded agreements are changed.
This is often done in order to improve or unfunded.
Represents exposures where a commitment to cash ow and the ability of the borrower to repay the debt.
It can provide future funding is made but funds have been released involve altering the repayment schedule as well as debt or interest not released.
Guaranteed mortgages Debt securities Mortgages for which there is a guarantor to provide the lender Debt securities are assets on the Groups balance sheet and a certain level of financial security in the event of default of represent certi cates of indebtedness of credit institutions, the borrower.
public bodies or other undertakings excluding those issued by Impaired loans central banks.
Loans where individual identi ed impairment provisions have been Debt securities in issue raised and also include loans that are collateralised or where Debt securities in issue are transfe rable certi cates of indebtedness indebtedness has already been written down to the expected of the Group to the bearer of the certi cate.
These are liabilities of realisable value.
The impaired loan category may include loans, the Group and include certi cates of deposits.
which, while impaired, are still performing.
Delinquency Impairment allowances A debt or other financial obligation is considered to be in a state of Impairment allowances are a provision held on the balance sheet as delinquency when payments are overdue.
Loans and advances a result of the raising of a charge against pro t for the incurred loss.
are considered to be delinquent when consecutive payments are An impairment allowance may either be identi ed or unidenti ed and missed.
individual speci c or collective portfolio.
Dividend per share Individually assessed loan impairment provisions Represents the entitlement of each shareholder in the share of Also known as speci c impairment provisions.
Impairment is the pro ts of the company.
Calculated in the lowest unit of currency measured individually for assets that are individually signi cant to in which the shares are quoted.
Typically assets within the Wholesale Banking business of the Group are assessed individually.
Effective tax rate ETR The tax on pro ts on ordinary activities as a percentage of pro t Innovative Tier 1 Capital on ordinary activities before taxation.
Innovative Tier 1 capital consists of instruments that incorporate certain features, the effect of which is to weaken but only Expected loss EL marginally the key characteristics of Tier 1 capital that is, fully The Group measure of anticipated loss for exposures captured subordinated, perpetual and non-cumulative.
Innovative Tier 1 under an internal ratings based credit risk approach for capital capital is subject to a limit of 15 per cent of total Tier 1 capital.
It is measured as the Group-modelled view of anticipated loss based on Probability of Default PD, Loss Internal Ratings Based IRB approach Given Default LGD and Exposure at Default EAD, with a The IRB approach is used to calculate risk weighted assets in one-year time horizon.
accordance with the Basel Capital Accord where capital requirements are based on a rms own estimates of certain Exposures parameters.
Credit exposures represent the amount lent to a customer, together with undrawn commitments.
Investment grade A debt security, treasury bill or similar instrument with a credit Exposure at default EAD rating measured by external agencies of AAA to BBB.
The estimation of the extent to which the Group may be exposed to a customer or counterparty in the event of, and at the time of, Jaws that counterpartys default.
At default, the customer may not have The rate of income growth less the rate of expense growth, drawn the loan fully or may already have repaid some of the principal, expressed as positive jaws when income growth exceeds expense so that exposure is typically less than the approved loan limit.
growth and vice versa for negative jaws.
Eurozone Leveraged finance Represents the 17 European Union countries that have adopted Loans or other nancing agreements provided to companies whose the euro as their common currency.
The 17 countries are Austria, overall level of debt is high in relation to their cash ow net debt: Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, EBITDA earnings before interest tax, depreciation and Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, amortisation typically arising from private equity sponsor led Slovenia and Spain.
acquisitions of the businesses concerned.
Forbearance Liquidity and credit enhancements Arrangements initiated by customers, the Group or third parties Credit enhancement facilities are used to enhance the to assist customers in financial dif culty where the Group agrees creditworthiness of financial obligations and cover losses due to accept less than the contractual amount due where financial to asset default.
Two general types of credit enhancement are distress would otherwise prevent satisfactory repayment within the third-party loan guarantees and self-enhancement through original terms and conditions of the contract.
Liquidity enhancement makes funds include extended payment terms, a reduction in interest or principal available if required, for other reasons than asset default, repayments, approved external debt management plans, debt e. g. to ensure timely repayment of maturing commercial paper.
consolidations, the deferral of foreclosures, and loan restructurings.
Supplementary information 289 Liquid asset buffer Net interest yield High quality unencumbered assets that meet the UK FSAs Interest income divided by average interest-earning assets less requirements for liquidity.
These assets include high quality interest expense divided by average interest-be aring liabilities.
government or central bank securities, certain deposits with Non-performing loans central banks and securities issued by designated multilateral A nonperforming loan is any loan that is more than 90 days past development banks.
due or is otherwise individually impaired, other than a loan that is: Liquid asset ratio renegotiated before 90 days past due, and on which no default Ratio of total liquid assets to total assets.
Liquid assets comprise in interest payments or loss of principal is expected: or cash less restricted balances, net interbank, treasury bills and debt securities less illiquid securities.
renegotiated at or after 90 days past due, but on which there has been no default in interest or principal payments for more Loans and advances than 180 days since renegotiation, and against which no loss of This represents lending made under bilateral agreements with principal is expected.
customers entered into in the normal course of business and is based on the legal form of the instrument.
An example of a loan Normalised earnings product is a home loan.
Pro t attributable to ordinary shareholders adjusted for pro ts or losses of a capital nature: amounts consequent to investment Loans to individuals transactions driven by strategic intent: and other infrequent and or Money loaned to individuals rather than institutions.
The loans may exceptional transactions that are signi cant or material in the be for car or home purchases, medical care, home repair, holidays, context of the Groups normal business earnings for the period.
Over the counter OTC derivatives Loan-to-value ratio A bilateral transaction e. g. derivatives that is not exchange traded The loan-to-value ratio is a mathematical calculation that expresses and that is valued using valuation models.
the amount of a first mortgage lien as a percentage of the total appraised value of real property.
The loan-to-value ratio is used in Pre-provision pro t determining the appropriate level of risk for the loan and therefore Operating pro t before impairment losses and taxation.
the correct price of the loan to the borrower.
Private equity investments Loans past due Equity securities in operating companies generally not quoted Loans on which payments have been due for up to a maximum of on a public exchange.
Investment in private equity often involves 90 days including those on which partial payments are being made.
the investment of capital in private companies.
Capital for private equity investment is raised by retail or institutional investors and Loss given default LGD used to fund investment strategies such as leveraged buyouts, LGD is the percentage of an exposure that a lender expects to lose venture capital, growth capital, distressed investments and in the event of obligor default.
Master netting agreement Probability of default PD An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple PD is an internal estimate for each borrower grade of the likelihood derivative contracts with each other that provides for the that an obligor will default on an obligation.
net settlement of all contracts through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of default on, or termination of, Pro t attributable to ordinary shareholders any one contract.
Pro t for the year after non-controlling interests and dividends declared in respect of preference shares classi ed as equity.
Mezzanine capital Financing that combines debt and equity characteristics.
Renegotiated loans For example, a loan that also confers some pro t participation Loans and advances are generally renegotiated either as part to the lender.
of an ongoing customer relationship or in response to an adverse change in the circumstances of the borrower.
In the latter case Mortgage Backed Securities MBS renegotiation can result in an extension of the due date of payment Securities that represent interests in a group of mortgages.
or repayment plans under which the Group offers a concessionary Investors in these securities have the right to cash received from rate of interest to genuinely distressed borrowers.
Such assets will future mortgage payments interest and or principal.
be individually impaired where the renegotiated payments of interest and principal will not recover the original carrying amount of the Mortgage related assets asset.
In other cases, renegotiation may lead to a new agreement, Assets that are referenced to underlying mortgages.
which would be treated as a new loan.
Medium term notes MTNs R epo Reverse repo Corporate notes continuously offered by a company to investors A repurchase agreement or repo is a shortterm funding agreement through a dealer.
Investors can choose from differing maturities, that allows a borrower to sell a financial asset, such as ABS or ranging from nine months to 30 years.
Government bonds as collateral for cash.
As part of the agreement the borrower agrees to repurchase the security at some later date, Net asset value per share usually less than 30 days, repaying the proceeds of the loan.
For the Ratio of net assets total assets less total liabilities to the number party on the other end of the transaction buying the security and of ordinary shares outstanding at the end of a reporting period.
agreeing to sell in the future it is a reverse repurchase agreement or reverse repo.
Net interest income The difference between interest received on assets and interest Residential mortgage paid on liabilities.
A loan to purchase a residential property that is then used as collateral to guarantee repayment of the loan.
The borrower gives Net interest margin the lender a lien against the property, and the lender can foreclose The margin is expressed as net interest income divided by average n the property if the borrower does not repay the loan per the o interestearning assets.
290 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Glossary continued Stressed value at risk Residential Mortgage Backed Securities RMBS A regulatory market risk measure based on potential market Securities that represent interests in a group of residential movements for a continuous one-year period of stress for a trading mortgages.
Investors in these securities have the right to cash portfolio.
received from future mortgage payments interest and or principal.
Return on equity Structured finance notes Represents the ratio of the current years pro t available for A structured note is an investment tool that pays a return linked to distribution to ordinary shareholders to the weighted average the value or level of a speci ed asset or index and sometimes offers ordinary shareholders equity for the reporting period.
capital protection if the value declines.
Structured notes can be linked to equities, interest rates, funds, commodities and foreign Risk weighted assets currency.
A measure of a banks assets adjusted for their associated risks.
Risk weightings are established in accordance with the Basel Subordinated liabilities Capital Accord as implemented by the FSA.
Liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or liquidation of the issuer, are subordinated to the claims of depositors and other creditors of Seasoning the issuer.
The emergence of credit loss patterns in portfolios over time.
Sub-prime Secured fully and partially Sub-prime is fide ned as loans to borrowers typically having A secured loan is a loan in which the borrower pledges an asset as weakened credit histories that include payment delinquencies and collateral for a loan which, in the event that the borrower defaults, potentially more severe problems such as court judg ments and the Group is able to take possession of.
All secured loans are bankruptcies.
They may also display reduced repayment capacity considered fully secured if the fair value of the collateral is equal to as measured by credit scores, high debt-to-income ratios, or other or greater than the loan at the time of origination.
All other secured criteria indicating heightened risk of default.
loans are considered to be partly secured.
Tangible net asset value per share Securitisation Ratio of parent shareholders equity less preference shares Securitisation is a process by which debt instruments are aggregated classi ed as equity and goodwill and intangible assets to the into a pool, which is used to back new securities.
A company number of ordinary shares outstanding at the end of the reporting sells assets to a special purpose entity SPE that then issues period.
securities backed by the assets based on their value.
This allows the credit quality of the assets to be separated from the credit rating Tier 1 capital of the original company and transfers risk to external investors.
Tier 1 capital comprises Core Tier 1 capital plus innovative Tier 1 securities and preference shares and tax on excess expected Senior debt losses less material holdings in credit or financial institutions.
Senior debt, frequently issued in the form of senior notes, is debt Tier 1 capital ratio that takes priority over other unsecured or otherwise more junior Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk weighted assets.
Senior debt has greater seniority in the issuers capital structure after subordinated debt.
In the event the Tier 2 capital issuer goes bankrupt, senior debt theoretically must be repaid Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated liabilities, allowable before other creditors receive any payment.
portfolio impairment provision and unrealised gains in the eligible Sovereign exposures revaluation reserves arising from the fair valuation of equity Exposures to central governments and central government instruments held as available-for-sale.
departments, central banks and entities owned or guaranteed UK bank levy by the aforementioned.
Sovereign exposures as fide ned by A levy that applies to certain UK banks and the UK operations of the European Banking Authority includes only exposures to foreign banks from 1 January 2011.
The levy is payable each year central governments.
based on a percentage of the chargeable liabilities of the Group as Special purpose entities SPEs at 31 December.
SPEs are entities that are created to accomplish a narrow and well Value at Risk VaR fide ned objective.
There are often speci c restrictions or limits Value at Risk is an estimate of the potential loss that might arise from around their ongoing activities.
market movements under normal market conditions, if the current Transactions with SPEs take a number of forms, including: positions were to be held unchanged for one business day, The provision of nancing to fund asset purchases, or measured to a con dence level of 97.5 per cent.
commitments to provide finance for future purchases Derivative transactions to provide investors in the SPE with a Working pro t speci ed exposure Operating pro t before impairment losses and taxation.
The provision of liquidity or backstop facilities that may be drawn Writed owns upon if the SPE experiences future funding dif culties After an advance has been identi ed as impaired and is subject to Direct investment in the notes issued by SPEs an impairment allowance, the stage may be reached whereby Standardised approach it is concluded that there is no realistic prospect of further recovery.
In relation to credit risk, a method for calculating credit risk capital Writedowns will occur when and to the extent that, the whole or requirements using External Credit Assessment Institutions ECAI part of a debt is considered irrecoverable.
ratings and supervisory risk weights.
In relation to operational risk, a method of calculating the operational capital requirement by the application of a supervisory fide ned percentage charge to the gross income of eight speci ed business lines.
