Portuguese, Spanish and German Income Tax All of Iberos ships are registered in Portugal.
Provided certain local employment requirements are satisfied, most of Iberos income that is not considered to be shipping profits for Italian tonnage tax purposes is subject to Portuguese income tax at effective rates of 5% or less through 2020.
After 2020, such income will be subject to the normal Portuguese tax rate.
Iberos Spanish operations are minimal and, therefore, its Spanish income taxes are minimal.
Substantially all of AIDAs earnings are exempt from German corporation tax by virtue of the Italy Germany income tax treaty.
Brazilian and Chinese Income and Other Taxes From November through March, Costa and Ibero charter certain of their ships for operation in Brazil to Brazilian subsidiaries.
The subsidiaries earnings are subject to Brazilian resident income tax, and we believe that payments these subsidiaries make to Costa and Ibero are exempt from Brazilian income tax under Brazilian domestic law and the Italy Brazil income tax treaty.
Substantially all of Costas income from its operations in China is exempt from Chinese corporation tax by virtue of the Italy China Maritime tax treaty.
Other We recognize income tax benefits for uncertain tax positions, based solely on their technical merits, when it is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the relevant tax authority.
The tax benefit to be recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate resolution.
All interest expense related to income tax liabilities is included in income tax expense.
Based on all known facts and circumstances and current tax law, we believe that the total amount of our uncertain income tax position liabilities and related accrued interest are not material to our financial position.
We do not expect to incur income taxes on future distributions of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries and, accordingly, no deferred income taxes have been provided for the distribution of these earnings.
In addition to or in place of income taxes, virtually all jurisdictions where our ships call impose taxes and or fees based on guest counts, ship tonnage, passenger capacity or some other measure, and these taxes and fees are included in commissions, transportation and other costs and other ship operating expenses.
NOTE 10 Shareholders Equity Carnival Corporations Articles of Incorporation authorize its Board of Directors, at its discretion, to issue up to 40 million shares of preferred stock.
At November 30, 2012 and 2011, no Carnival Corporation preferred stock had been issued and only a nominal amount of Carnival plc preference shares had been issued.
In September 2007, our Boards of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an aggregate of $1 billion of Carnival Corporation common stock and Carnival plc ordinary shares subject to certain restrictions the Repurchase Program.
The Repurchase Program does not have an expiration date and may be discontinued by our Boards of Directors at any time.
During 2012 and 2011, we repurchased 2.6 million and 13.5 million shares of Carnival Corporation common stock for $90 million and $413 million, respectively, under the Repurchase Program.
During 2010, there were no repurchases of Carnival Corporation common stock under the Repurchase Program.
In addition, during 2011, Carnival Investments Limited, a subsidiary of Carnival Corporation, also repurchased 1.3 million ordinary shares of Carnival plc for $41 million under the Repurchase Program.
During 2012 and 2010, there were no repurchases 23
