We believe that adding newer, more efficient ships, as well as improving our existing fleet, will have a positive impact on our profitability.
During 2012, we ordered two new cruise ships one 4,000-passenger capacity ship for our Carnival Cruise Lines brand and one 2,660-passenger capacity ship for our Holland America Line brand.
These ships will be the largest ever constructed for these two cruise brands.
As of January 22, 2013, we currently have nine cruise ships scheduled to enter service between March 2013 and March 2016, two of which will enter service in 2013 see Note 6 Commitments in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Our current intention is to have an average of two to three new cruise ships enter service annually, some of which will replace existing capacity from the possible sales of older, less efficient ships.
We are strategically timing the introductions of additional ships to our brands to allow ample time for those lines to further grow their guest base and absorb the new capacity.
Our rate of growth is slowing in the more established regions of North America and Western Europe.
We are committed to a measured pace of newbuilds to achieve an optimal balance of supply and demand to maximize our profitability in these established regions.
In addition, we believe that we have significant opportunities to grow our presence in the emerging Asian cruise region and will continue to redeploy some of our existing ships to that region.
Outlook for the 2013 First Quarter and Full Year On December 20, 2012, we said that we expected our non-GAAP diluted EPS for the 2013 first quarter and full year would be in the ranges of $0.03 to $0.07 and $2.20 to $2.40, respectively see Key Performance NonGAAP Financial Indicators.
Our guidance was based on fuel prices of $674 per metric ton and $692 per metric ton for the 2013 first quarter and full year, respectively.
In addition, our guidance was based on 2013 first quarter and full year currency rates of $1.30 to the euro, $1.61 to sterling and $1.05 to the Australian dollar.
The fuel and currency assumptions used in our guidance change daily and, accordingly, our forecasts change daily based on the changes in these assumptions.
We believe it is more meaningful to evaluate our earnings performance by excluding the impact of unrealized gains and losses on fuel derivatives from non-GAAP diluted EPS.
Therefore, we will not include any future estimates of unrealized gains and losses on fuel derivatives in our non-GAAP EPS guidance.
However, we will forecast realized gains and losses on fuel derivatives by applying current Brent prices to the derivatives that settle in the forecast period.
The above forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions with respect to us.
There are many factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed above including, but not limited to, general economic and business conditions, increases in fuel prices, incidents, spread of contagious diseases, adverse weather conditions, geo-political events, negative publicity and other factors that could adversely impact our revenues, costs and expenses.
You should read the above forward-looking statement together with the discussion of these and other risks under Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results.
Critical Accounting Estimates Our critical accounting estimates are those which we believe require our most significant judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
A discussion of our critical accounting estimates, the underlying judgments and uncertainties used to make them and the likelihood that materially different estimates would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions is as follows: Ship Accounting Our most significant assets are our ships, including ship improvements and ships under construction, which represent 79% of our total assets at November 30, 2012.
We make several critical accounting estimates with respect to our ship accounting.
First, in order to compute our ships depreciation expense, which represented 10% of our cruise costs and expenses in 2012, we have to estimate the average useful life of each of our ships as well 42
