Net cruise costs excluding fuel increased $536 million, or 8.8%, to $6.6 billion in 2011 from $6.1 billion in 2010.
This was caused by our 5.1% capacity increase in ALBDs, which accounted for $314 million, the currency impact, which accounted for $122 million, and a 1.6% increase in constant dollar net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD, which accounted for $100 million.
The 1.6% increase in constant dollar net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD was principally driven by inflationary pressures on crew travel, food, freight and other hotel operating expenses.
Fuel costs increased $571 million, or 35%, to $2.2 billion in 2011 from $1.6 billion in 2010.
This was caused by higher fuel prices, which accounted for $535 million, and a 5.1% capacity increase in ALBDs, which accounted for $83 million, partially offset by lower fuel consumption per ALBD, which accounted for $46 million.
Gross cruise costs increased $1.3 billion, or 13% to $11.8 billion in 2011 from $10.5 billion in 2010 for principally the same reasons as discussed above.
Liquidity, Financial Condition and Capital Resources Our primary financial goals are to profitably grow our cruise business, while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
Our ability to generate significant operating cash flows allows us to internally fund all of our capital investment program and still have a substantial amount of free cash flow, which we intend to return to shareholders in the form of dividends and opportune share buybacks.
During 2012, we generated $3.0 billion of cash from operations and used $1.8 billion to fund net capital expenditures, leaving us with $1.2 billion of free cash flow.
All of this free cash flow was returned to shareholders through our $0.25 per share regular quarterly dividend, our $0.50 per share special dividend and by repurchasing 2.6 million of Carnival Corporation common stock.
This is the second consecutive year that we returned all our free cash flow to shareholders.
Other objectives of our capital structure policy are to maintain an acceptable level of liquidity with our available cash and cash equivalents and committed financings for immediate and future liquidity needs, and a reasonable debt maturity profile that is spread out over a number of years.
Based on our historical results, projections and financial condition, we believe that our future operating cash flows and liquidity will be sufficient to fund all of our expected capital projects including shipbuilding commitments, debt service requirements, working capital needs and other firm commitments over the next several years.
However, as we intend to continue to return all of our free cash flow to shareholders, we expect to issue debt in the future to supplement our committed ship financings in order to repay certain of our debt as it matures.
We believe that our ability to generate significant operating cash flows and our strong balance sheet as evidenced by our investment grade credit ratings provide us with the ability in most financial credit market environments to obtain such debt financing.
However, our future operating cash flows and our ability to issue debt can be adversely impacted by numerous factors outside our control including, but not limited to, those noted under Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results.
If our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings were to be downgraded or assigned a negative outlook, our access to, and cost of, debt financing may also be negatively impacted.
At November 30, 2012, we had a working capital deficit of $5.5 billion.
This deficit included $3.1 billion of customer deposits, which represent the passenger revenues we collect in advance of sailing dates and, accordingly, are substantially more like deferred revenue balances rather than actual current cash liabilities.
Our November 30, 2012 working capital deficit also included $1.7 billion of current debt obligations, which are substantially related to our export credit facilities, bank loans and other debt.
We continue to generate substantial cash from operations and have a strong balance sheet.
This strong balance sheet provides us with the ability to refinance our current debt obligations before, or as they become due in most financial credit market environments.
We also have our revolving credit facility available to provide long-term rollover financing should the need arise, or if we choose to do so.
After excluding customer deposits and current debt obligations from our November 30, 2012 working capital deficit balance, our non-GAAP adjusted working capital deficit was $709 million.
Our business model, along with our unsecured revolving credit facilities, allows us to operate with a 54 working capital deficit and still meet our operating, investing and financing needs.
We believe we will continue to have working capital deficits for the foreseeable future.
Sources and Uses of Cash Our business provided $3.0 billion of net cash from operations during 2012, a decrease of $767 million, or 20%, compared to $3.8 billion in 2011.
This decrease was substantially due to less cash being provided from our operating results and customer deposits.
During 2012, our expenditures for capital projects were $2.3 billion, of which $1.7 billion was spent on our ongoing new shipbuilding program, including $1.5 billion for the final delivery payments for AIDAmar, Carnival Breeze and Costa Fascinosa.
In addition to our new shipbuilding program, we had capital expenditures of $0.4 billion for ship improvements and replacements and $0.2 billion for information technology, buildings and other assets.
Furthermore, in 2012 we received $508 million of euro-denominated hull and machinery insurance proceeds for the total loss of a ship.
During 2012, we repaid a net $224 million of short-term borrowings in connection with our availability of, and needs for, cash at various times throughout the year.
In addition, during 2012, we repaid $1.1 billion of scheduled long-term debt payments.
Furthermore, during 2012, we borrowed $946 million of new long-term debt substantially all under two export credit facilities.
Finally, we paid cash dividends of $779 million and purchased $90 million of Carnival Corporation common stock in open market transactions during 2012.
See Note 5 Debt in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding these debt obligations.
b Represents cash outflows for certain of our long-term liabilities, including their current portion, that could be reasonably estimated.
The primary outflows are for estimates of our compensation plans obligations, crew and guest claims, uncertain income tax position liabilities and certain deferred income taxes.
Other deferred income taxes have been excluded from the table because they do not require a cash settlement in the future.
55 c Our shipbuilding contractual obligations are legal commitments and, accordingly, cannot be cancelled without cause by the shipyards or us, and such cancellation will subject the defaulting party to significant contractual liquidating damage payments.
See Note 6 Commitments in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding these contractual cash obligations.
d Represents legally-binding commitments to purchase inventory and other goods and services made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements.
Many of our contracts contain clauses that allow us to terminate the contract with notice, either with or without a termination penalty.
Termination penalties are generally an amount less than the original obligation.
Historically, we have not had any significant defaults of our contractual obligations or incurred significant penalties for their termination.
e Fixed rate interest payments represent cash outflows for fixed interest payments, including interest swapped from a floating rate to a fixed rate.
Floating rate interest payments represent forecasted cash outflows for interest payments on floating rate debt using the November 30, 2012 forward interest rates for the remaining terms of the loans.
f Amounts payable in foreign currencies, which are principally the euro, sterling and Australian dollars, are based on the November 30, 2012 exchange rates.
As of November 30, 2012, our annual capital expenditures for ships under contract for construction, estimated improvements to existing ships and shoreside assets for 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 are expected to be $2.0 billion, $2.2 billion, $2.5 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively.
The year-over-year percentage increase in our annual capacity for 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 is currently expected to be 3.5%, 1.7%, 4.8% and 4.6%, respectively.
These percentage increases result primarily from contracted new ships entering service and exclude any unannounced future ship orders, acquisitions, retirements, charters or sales.
In September 2007, our Boards of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an aggregate of $1 billion of Carnival Corporation common stock and Carnival plc ordinary shares subject to certain restrictions under the Repurchase Program.
The Repurchase Program does not have an expiration date and may be discontinued by our Boards of Directors at any time.
During 2012 and 2011, we repurchased 2.6 million shares and 13.5 million shares of Carnival Corporation common stock for $90 million and $413 million under the Repurchase Program, respectively.
During 2010, there were no repurchases of Carnival Corporation common stock under the Repurchase Program.
In addition, during 2011, we also repurchased 1.3 million ordinary shares of Carnival plc for $41 million under the Repurchase Program.
During 2012 and 2010, there were no repurchases of Carnival plc ordinary shares under the Repurchase Program.
At November 30, 2012, the remaining availability under the Repurchase Program was $244 million.
There were 2.1 million shares of Carnival Corporation common stock repurchased for $78 million under the Repurchase Program from December 1, 2012 through January 16, 2013.
On January 16, 2013, the Boards of Directors increased the remaining authorization available under the Repurchase Program back to $1 billion, which was fully available at January 22, 2013.
In addition to the Repurchase Program, the Boards of Directors have authorized the repurchase of up to 19.2 million Carnival plc ordinary shares and up to 32.8 million shares of Carnival Corporation common stock under the Stock Swap programs.
Depending on market conditions and other factors, we may purchase shares of Carnival Corporation common stock and or Carnival plc ordinary shares under the Repurchase Program and the Stock Swap programs concurrently.
We use the Stock Swap programs in situations where we can obtain an economic benefit because either Carnival Corporation common stock or Carnival plc ordinary shares are trading at a price that is at a premium or discount to the price of Carnival plc ordinary shares or Carnival Corporation common stock, as the case may be.
This economic benefit is used for general corporate purposes, which could include repurchasing additional stock under the Repurchase Program.
Carnival plc ordinary share repurchases 56
