As a result, these contingent obligations are considered extinguished and neither the funds nor the contingent obligations have been included in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
In the event that Carnival Corporation were to default on its contingent obligations and assuming performance by all other participants, we estimate that we would, as of November 30, 2012, be responsible for a termination payment of $40 million.
In 2017, we have the right to exercise options that would terminate these LILO transactions at no cost to us.
In certain cases, if the credit ratings of the financial institutions who are directly paying the contingent obligations fall below AA-, then Carnival Corporation will be required to replace these financial institutions with other financial institutions whose credit ratings are at least AA or meet other specified credit requirements.
In such circumstances, we would incur additional costs, although we estimate that they would not be material to our consolidated financial statements.
For the two financial institution payment undertakers subject to this AAcredit rating threshold, one has a credit rating of AA and the other has a credit rating of AA-.
If Carnival Corporations credit rating, which is BBB, falls below BBB, it will be required to provide a standby letter of credit for $43 million, or, alternatively, provide mortgages for this aggregate amount on these two ships.
Contingent Obligations Indemnifications Some of the debt contracts that we enter into include indemnification provisions that obligate us to make payments to the counterparty if certain events occur.
These contingencies generally relate to changes in taxes and changes in laws that increase lender capital costs and other similar costs.
The indemnification clauses are often standard contractual terms and were entered into in the normal course of business.
There are no stated or notional amounts included in the indemnification clauses, and we are not able to estimate the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these indemnification clauses.
We have not been required to make any material payments under such indemnification clauses in the past and, under current circumstances, we do not believe a request for material future indemnification payments is probable.
NOTE 9 Income and Other Taxes A summary of our principal taxes and exemptions in the jurisdictions where our primary businesses are located is as follows: U. S. Income Tax We are primarily foreign corporations engaged in the business of operating cruise ships in international transportation.
We also own and operate, among other businesses, the U. S. hotel and transportation business of Holland America Princess Alaska Tours through U. S. corporations.
Our North American cruise ship businesses and certain ship-owning subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business within the U. S. Depending on the itinerary of any particular ship, that ship may generate income from sources within the U. S. We believe that our U. S. source income and the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries, to the extent derived from, or incidental to, the international operation of a ship or ships, is currently exempt from U. S. federal income and branch profits tax.
In general, under Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code, certain non-U.
S. corporations such as our North American cruise ship businesses are not subject to U. S. federal income tax or branch profits tax on U. S. source income derived from, or incidental to, the international operation of a ship or ships.
Applicable U. S. Treasury regulations provide in general that a foreign corporation will qualify for the benefits of Section 883 if, in relevant part, i the foreign country in which the foreign corporation is organized grants an equivalent exemption to corporations organized in the U. S. an equivalent exemption jurisdiction and ii the foreign corporation meets a defined publicly-traded test.
Subsidiaries of foreign corporations that are organized in an equivalent exemption 21 jurisdiction and meet the publicly-traded test also benefit from Section 883.
We believe that Panama is an equivalent exemption jurisdiction and Carnival Corporation currently qualifies as a publicly-traded corporation under the regulations.
Accordingly, substantially all of Carnival Corporations income is exempt from U. S. federal income and branch profits tax.
Regulations under Section 883 list items that the Internal Revenue Service does not consider to be incidental to ship operations.
Among the items identified as not incidental is income from the sale of air transportation, transfers, shore excursions and preand post-cruise land packages to the extent earned from sources within the U. S. We believe that the U. S. source transportation income earned by Carnival plc and its Italian resident subsidiary currently qualifies for exemption from U. S. federal income tax under applicable bilateral U. S. income tax treaties.
Our domestic U. S. operations, principally the hotel and transportation business of Holland America Princess Alaska Tours, are subject to state and federal income taxation in the U. S. Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc and certain of their subsidiaries are subject to various U. S. state income taxes generally imposed on each states portion of the U. S. source income subject to U. S. federal income taxes.
However, the state of Alaska imposes an income tax on its allocated portion of the total income of our companies doing business in Alaska and certain of their subsidiaries.
UK and Australian Income Tax Cunard, P&O Cruises UK and P&O Cruises Australia are divisions of Carnival plc and have elected to enter the UK tonnage tax regime through 2021.
Companies to which the tonnage tax regime applies pay corporation taxes on profits calculated by reference to the net tonnage of qualifying ships.
UK corporation tax is not chargeable under the normal UK tax rules on these brands relevant shipping income.
Relevant shipping income includes income from the operation of qualifying ships and from shipping related activities.
For a company to be eligible for the regime, it must be subject to UK corporation tax and, among other matters, operate qualifying ships that are strategically and commercially managed in the UK.
Companies within UK tonnage tax are also subject to a seafarer training requirement.
Our UK non-shipping activities that do not qualify under the UK tonnage tax regime remain subject to normal UK corporation tax.
Dividends received from subsidiaries of Carnival plc doing business outside the UK are generally exempt from UK corporation tax.
P&O Cruises Australia and all of the other cruise ships operated internationally by Carnival plc for the Australian market are exempt from Australian corporation tax by virtue of the UK Australian income tax treaty.
Italian Income Tax Costa, AIDA and Ibero have elected to enter the Italian tonnage tax regime through 2014 and intend to reapply for an additional ten-year period beginning 2015.
Companies to which the tonnage tax regime applies pay corporation taxes on shipping profits calculated by reference to the net tonnage of qualifying ships.
Most of Costas and AIDAs earnings not considered to be shipping profits for Italian tonnage tax purposes will be taxed at an effective tax rate of approximately 6% under the Italian tax regime since all of their ships are Italian registered.
In 2010, AIDA and Costa recognized a $30 million income tax benefit from an Italian investment incentive related to certain of their newbuild expenditures.
