We believe that adding newer, more efficient ships, as well as improving our existing fleet, will have a positive impact on our profitability.
During 2012, we ordered two new cruise ships one 4,000-passenger capacity ship for our Carnival Cruise Lines brand and one 2,660-passenger capacity ship for our Holland America Line brand.
These ships will be the largest ever constructed for these two cruise brands.
As of January 22, 2013, we currently have nine cruise ships scheduled to enter service between March 2013 and March 2016, two of which will enter service in 2013 see Note 6 Commitments in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Our current intention is to have an average of two to three new cruise ships enter service annually, some of which will replace existing capacity from the possible sales of older, less efficient ships.
We are strategically timing the introductions of additional ships to our brands to allow ample time for those lines to further grow their guest base and absorb the new capacity.
Our rate of growth is slowing in the more established regions of North America and Western Europe.
We are committed to a measured pace of newbuilds to achieve an optimal balance of supply and demand to maximize our profitability in these established regions.
In addition, we believe that we have significant opportunities to grow our presence in the emerging Asian cruise region and will continue to redeploy some of our existing ships to that region.
Outlook for the 2013 First Quarter and Full Year On December 20, 2012, we said that we expected our non-GAAP diluted EPS for the 2013 first quarter and full year would be in the ranges of $0.03 to $0.07 and $2.20 to $2.40, respectively see Key Performance NonGAAP Financial Indicators.
Our guidance was based on fuel prices of $674 per metric ton and $692 per metric ton for the 2013 first quarter and full year, respectively.
In addition, our guidance was based on 2013 first quarter and full year currency rates of $1.30 to the euro, $1.61 to sterling and $1.05 to the Australian dollar.
The fuel and currency assumptions used in our guidance change daily and, accordingly, our forecasts change daily based on the changes in these assumptions.
We believe it is more meaningful to evaluate our earnings performance by excluding the impact of unrealized gains and losses on fuel derivatives from non-GAAP diluted EPS.
Therefore, we will not include any future estimates of unrealized gains and losses on fuel derivatives in our non-GAAP EPS guidance.
However, we will forecast realized gains and losses on fuel derivatives by applying current Brent prices to the derivatives that settle in the forecast period.
The above forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions with respect to us.
There are many factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed above including, but not limited to, general economic and business conditions, increases in fuel prices, incidents, spread of contagious diseases, adverse weather conditions, geo-political events, negative publicity and other factors that could adversely impact our revenues, costs and expenses.
You should read the above forward-looking statement together with the discussion of these and other risks under Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results.
Critical Accounting Estimates Our critical accounting estimates are those which we believe require our most significant judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
A discussion of our critical accounting estimates, the underlying judgments and uncertainties used to make them and the likelihood that materially different estimates would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions is as follows: Ship Accounting Our most significant assets are our ships, including ship improvements and ships under construction, which represent 79% of our total assets at November 30, 2012.
We make several critical accounting estimates with respect to our ship accounting.
First, in order to compute our ships depreciation expense, which represented 10% of our cruise costs and expenses in 2012, we have to estimate the average useful life of each of our ships as well 42 as their residual values.
Secondly, we account for ship improvement costs by capitalizing those costs that we believe add value to our ships and have a useful life greater than one year, and depreciate those improvements over their or the ships estimated remaining useful life, whichever is shorter, while the costs of repairs and maintenance, including minor improvement costs and dry-dock expenses, are charged to expense as incurred.
Finally, when we record the retirement of a ship component that is included within the ships cost basis, we may have to estimate the net book value of the asset being retired in order to remove it from the ships cost basis.
We determine the average useful life of our ships and their residual values based primarily on our estimates of the weighted-average useful lives and residual values of the ships major component systems, such as cabins, superstructure, main electric, engines and hull.
In addition, we consider, among other things, long-term vacation market conditions, competition and historical useful lives of similarly-built ships.
We have estimated our ships weighted-average useful lives at 30 years and their average residual values at 15% of our original ship cost.
Further, we determine the useful life of ship improvements based on estimates of the period over which the assets will be of economic benefit to us.
In determining such lives, we also consider factors, including but not limited to, physical deterioration, obsolescence, regulatory constraints and maintenance requirements.
Given the large size and complexity of our ships, ship accounting estimates require considerable judgment and are inherently uncertain.
We do not have cost segregation studies performed to specifically componentize our ships.
In addition, since we do not separately componentize our ships, we do not identify and track depreciation of specific original ship components.
Therefore, we typically have to estimate the net book value of components that are retired, based primarily upon their replacement cost, their age and their original estimated useful lives.
If materially different conditions existed, or if we materially changed our assumptions of ship lives and residual values, our depreciation expense, loss on retirement of ship components and net book value of our ships would be materially different.
In addition, if we change our assumptions in making our determinations as to whether improvements to a ship add value, the amounts we expense each year as repair and maintenance expense could increase, which would be partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expense, resulting from a reduction in capitalized costs.
Our 2012 ship depreciation expense would increase by an estimated $37 million for every year we reduce our estimated average 30 year ship useful life.
In addition, if our ships were estimated to have no residual value, our 2012 depreciation expense would increase by approximately $190 million.
We believe that the estimates we made for ship accounting purposes are reasonable and our methods are consistently applied in all material respects and, accordingly, result in depreciation expense that is based on a rational and systematic method to equitably allocate the costs of our ships to the periods during which they are used.
In addition, we believe that the estimates we made are reasonable and our methods consistently applied in all material respects 1 in determining the average useful life and average residual values of our ships, including ship improvements: 2 in determining which ship improvement costs add value to our ships: and 3 in determining the net book value of ship component assets being retired.
Finally, we believe our critical ship accounting estimates are generally comparable with those of other major cruise companies.
Asset Impairments Impairment reviews of our cruise ships, goodwill and trademarks require us to make significant estimates to determine the fair values of these assets or cruise brands.
For our cruise ships, we perform our impairment reviews, if required, at the individual cruise ship level, which is the lowest level for which we maintain identifiable cash flows that are independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities.
See Note 4 Property and Equipment in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of impairment charges recorded in 2012 and 2011.
We believe it is more-likely-than-not MLTN that each of our cruise brands estimated fair values that carry goodwill at November 30, 2012 exceeded their carrying values.
We also believe that it is MLTN that the estimated fair values of each of our cruise brands trademarks recorded at November 30, 2012 exceeded their carrying values.
See Note 11 Fair Value Measurements, Derivative 43 Instruments and Hedging Activities in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of our goodwill and trademark impairment tests.
The determination of fair value includes numerous uncertainties, unless a comparable, viable actively-traded market exists, which is usually not the case for cruise ships, cruise brands and trademarks.
Our ship fair values are typically estimated based on individual or comparable ship sale prices and other comparable ship values in inactive markets.
In performing qualitative assessments of our cruise brands that carry goodwill, qualitative factors that we consider to determine their effect on each of the cruise brands estimated fair values include industry and market conditions, macroeconomic conditions, changes to WACC, overall financial performance and changes in fuel.
In determining the estimated fair values of cruise brands utilizing discounted future cash flow analysis for our quantitative goodwill impairment tests, if any, significant judgments are made related to forecasting future operating results, including net revenue yields, net cruise costs including fuel prices, capacity changes, including the expected deployment of vessels into, or out of, the cruise brand, WACC for comparable publicly-traded companies, adjusted for the risk attributable to the geographic region in which the cruise brand operates and terminal values.
In addition, third party appraisers are sometimes used to help determine fair values of cruise brands and trademarks, and their valuation methodologies are also typically subject to uncertainties similar to those discussed above.
In addition, in performing our qualitative assessments of our cruise brands significant trademarks, qualitative factors that we consider to determine their effect on each of the cruise brands recorded trademarks estimated fair values include industry and market conditions, macroeconomic conditions, changes to the WACC, changes to the royalty rates and overall financial performance.
In determining our trademark estimated fair values for our quantitative impairment tests, if any, we also use discounted future cash flow analysis, which requires some of the same significant judgments discussed above.
Specifically, determining the estimated amount of royalties avoided by our ownership of the trademark is based upon forecasted cruise revenues and royalty rates that a market participant would use.
The royalty rates are estimated primarily using comparable royalty agreements for similar industries.
We believe that we have made reasonable estimates and judgments in determining whether our cruise ships, goodwill and trademarks have been impaired.
However, if there is a material change in the conditions or circumstances affecting fair values, or if there is a material change in assumptions used in our determination of fair values, then we may need to recognize a material impairment charge.
Contingencies We periodically assess the potential liabilities related to any lawsuits or claims brought against us, as well as for other known unasserted claims, including environmental, legal, regulatory, guest and crew, and tax matters.
In addition, we periodically assess the recoverability of our trade and other receivables and other counterparty credit exposures, such as contractual nonperformance by financial and other institutions with which we conduct significant business.
Our credit exposure includes contingent obligations related to cash payments received directly by travel agents and tour operators for cash collected by them on cruise sales in most of Europe where we are obligated to extend credit in a like amount to these guests even if we do not receive payment from the travel agents or tour operators.
While it is typically very difficult to determine the timing and ultimate outcome of these matters, we use our best judgment to determine if it is probable, or MLTN for income tax matters, that we will incur an expense related to the settlement or final adjudication of such matters and whether a reasonable estimation of such probable or MLTN loss, if any, can be made.
In assessing probable losses, we make estimates of the amount of probable insurance recoveries, if any, which are recorded as assets.
We accrue a liability and establish a reserve when we believe a loss is probable or MLTN for income tax matters, and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated in accordance with U. S. generally accepted accounting principles U. S. GAAP.
Such accruals and reserves are typically based on developments to date, managements estimates of the 44
