Concentrations of Credit Risk As part of our ongoing control procedures, we monitor concentrations of credit risk associated with financial and other institutions with which we conduct significant business.
Our maximum exposure under foreign currency and fuel derivative contracts and interest rate swap agreements that are in-the-money, which were not significant at November 30, 2012, is the replacement cost, net of any collateral received, in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the contracts, all of which are currently our lending banks.
We seek to minimize credit risk exposure, including counterparty nonperformance primarily associated with our cash equivalents, investments, committed financing facilities, contingent obligations, derivative instruments, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees, by normally conducting business with large, well-established financial institutions, insurance companies and export credit agencies, and by diversifying our counterparties.
In addition, we have guidelines regarding credit ratings and investment maturities that we follow to help safeguard liquidity and minimize risk.
We normally do require collateral and or guarantees to support notes receivable on significant asset sales, long-term ship charters and new ship progress payments to shipyards.
We currently believe the risk of nonperformance by any of our significant counterparties is remote.
We also monitor the creditworthiness of travel agencies and tour operators in Europe and credit card providers to which we extend credit in the normal course of our business.
Our credit exposure includes contingent obligations related to cash payments received directly by travel agents and tour operators for cash collected by them on cruise sales in most of Europe where we are obligated to extend credit in a like amount to these guests even if we do not receive payment from the travel agents or tour operators.
Concentrations of credit risk associated with these receivables and contingent obligations are not considered to be material, primarily due to the large number of unrelated accounts within our customer base, the amount of these contingent obligations and their short maturities.
We have experienced only minimal credit losses on our trade receivables and related contingent obligations.
We do not normally require collateral or other security to support normal credit sales.
NOTE 12 Segment Information We have three reportable cruise segments that are comprised of our 1 North America cruise brands, 2 EAA cruise brands and 3 Cruise Support.
In addition, we have a Tour and Other segment.
Our segments are reported on the same basis as the internally reported information that is provided to our chief operating decision maker CODM, who is the Chairman of the Boards of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc.
Decisions to allocate resources and assess performance for Carnival Corporation & plc are taken by the CODM upon review of the segment results across all of our cruise brands and other segments.
Our North America cruise segment includes Carnival Cruise Lines, Holland America Line, Princess and Seabourn.
Our EAA cruise segment includes AIDA, Costa, Cunard, Ibero, P&O Cruises Australia and P&O Cruises UK.
These individual cruise brand operating segments have been aggregated into two reportable segments based on the similarity of their economic and other characteristics, including types of customers, regulatory environment, maintenance requirements, supporting systems and processes and products and services they provide.
Our Cruise Support segment represents certain of our port and related facilities and other corporatewide services that are provided for the benefit of our cruise brands.
Our Tour and Other segment represents the hotel and transportation operations of Holland America Princess Alaska Tours and two of our ships that we charter to an unaffiliated entity.
The significant accounting policies of our segments are the same as those described in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.
These intersegment cruise revenues, which were included in our North America cruise brands segment, were eliminated directly against the Tour and Other segment revenues and operating expenses in the line Intersegment elimination.
In 2012, the Tour and Other segment no longer includes revenues for the cruise portion of a tour.
However, a portion of the North America cruise brands segment revenues include revenues for the tour portion of a cruise when a land tour package is sold along with a cruise by Holland America Line and Princess.
These intersegment tour revenues, which are included in our Tour and Other segment, are eliminated directly against the North America cruise brands segment revenues and operating expenses in the line Intersegment elimination.
This change in 2012 from prior years is referred to as the change in the accounting for our North America cruise brands and Tour and Other segments and did not have a significant impact on either of these segments 2012, 2011 and 2010 operating income.
b Includes $173 million of impairment charges related to Iberos goodwill and trademarks.
c Tour and Other segment assets primarily include hotels and lodges in the state of Alaska and the Canadian Yukon, motorcoaches used for sightseeing and charters, domed rail cars, which run on the Alaska Railroad, and our owned ships under long-term charter to an unaffiliated entity.
S. revenues for our cruise brands represent sales generated from outside the U. S. principally by non-U.
S. tour operators and non-U.
Substantially all of our long-lived assets are located outside of the U. S. and consist principally of our ships and ships under construction.
