In 2010, we recognized a $44 million gain on the sale of P&O Cruises UK s Artemis as a reduction of other ship operating expenses.
We operated Artemis under a bareboat charter agreement until April 2011.
The debt table does not include the impact of our foreign currency and interest rate swaps.
At November 30, 2012, 58% and 42% of our debt was U. S. dollar and euro-denominated, respectively, and at November 30, 2011, 56%, 41% and 3% of our debt was U. S. dollar, euro and sterling-denominated, respectively, including the effect of foreign currency swaps.
Substantially all of our fixed rate debt can only be called or prepaid by incurring significant costs.
In addition, substantially all of our debt agreements, including our main revolving credit facility, contain one or more financial covenants that require us, among other things, to maintain minimum debt service coverage and minimum shareholders equity and to limit our debt to capital and debt to equity ratios and the amounts of our secured assets and secured and other indebtedness.
Generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, substantially all of our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables see Note 11 17 could become due, and all debt and derivative contracts could be terminated.
At November 30, 2012, we believe we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants.
b Includes $3.8 billion of debt whose interest rates, and in the case of our main revolver its commitment fees, would increase upon certain downgrades in the long-term senior unsecured credit ratings of Carnival Corporation or Carnival plc.
c In 2012, we borrowed $560 million under an unsecured export credit facility, the proceeds of which were used to pay for a portion of Carnival Breezes purchase price and is due in semi-annual installments through May 2024. d In 2012, we borrowed $383 million under an unsecured euro-denominated export credit facility, the proceeds of which were used to pay for a portion of AIDAmars purchase price and is due in semi-annual installments through May 2024. e Includes a $150 million bank loan that currently carries a fixed interest rate.
However, the loan can be converted to a floating interest rate at the option of the lenders.
f In 2012, we borrowed $200 million under a bank loan, which is due in 2014.
This bank loan was used to repay an existing $200 million unsecured fixed rate bank loan at maturity in 2012.
We are using the net proceeds of these notes for general corporate purposes, including repayments of portions of debt facilities maturing in 2013.
Debt issuance costs are generally amortized to interest expense using the straight-line method, which approximates the effective interest method, over the term of the debt.
In addition, all debt issue discounts are amortized to interest expense using the effective interest rate method over the term of the notes.
Committed Ship Financings We have unsecured long-term export credit committed ship financings, for which we have the option to draw in euros and or U. S. dollars depending on the facility, in order to pay for a portion of our ships purchase prices.
These commitments, if drawn, are repayable semi-annually over 12 years.
We have the option to cancel each one at specified dates prior to the underlying ships delivery date.
