NOTE 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation We consolidate entities over which we have control, as typically evidenced by a voting control of greater than 50% or for which we are the primary beneficiary, whereby we have the power to direct the most significant activities and the obligation to absorb significant losses or receive significant benefits from the entity see Note 3.
We do not separately present our noncontrolling interests in the consolidated financial statements since the amounts are insignificant.
For affiliates we do not control but where significant influence over financial and operating policies exists, as typically evidenced by a voting control of 20% to 50%, the investment is accounted for using the equity method.
Preparation of Financial Statements The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and disclosed in our financial statements.
Actual results may differ from the estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include investments with maturities of three months or less at acquisition, which are stated at cost.
At November 30, 2012 and 2011, cash and cash equivalents are comprised of cash on hand, money market funds and time deposits.
Inventories Inventories consist principally of food and beverage provisions, hotel and restaurant products and supplies, fuel and gift shop and art merchandise held for resale, which are all carried at the lower of cost or market.
Cost is determined using the weighted-average or first-in, first-out methods.
Property and Equipment Property and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation and amortization were computed using the straight-line method over our estimates of average useful lives and residual values, as a percentage of original cost, as follows: Residual Years Values Ships..................................................... 30 15% Ship improvements..........................................
Shorter of lease term or - related asset life 3-30 The cruise business is very capital intensive.
Each year, a capital program is developed for the improvement of our ships, as well as asset replacements to enhance efficiency of operations, gain strategic benefits or provide newer improved product offerings to our guests.
Ship improvement costs that we believe add value to our ships, 11 such as those incurred for refurbishments, safety and operational efficiencies, are capitalized to the ships and depreciated over their or the ships estimated remaining useful life, whichever is shorter, while costs of repairs and maintenance, including minor improvement costs, are charged to expense as incurred.
We capitalize interest as part of the cost of acquiring ships and other capital projects during their construction period.
The specifically identified or estimated cost and accumulated depreciation of previously capitalized ship components are written-off upon retirement, which may result in a loss on disposal that is included in other ship operating expenses.
Dry-dock costs primarily represent planned major maintenance activities that are incurred when a ship is taken out-of-service for scheduled maintenance.
These costs are expensed as incurred and included in other ship operating expenses.
We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be fully recoverable.
Upon the occurrence of a triggering event, the assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of our asset, which is determined by using the assets estimated undiscounted future cash flows.
If these estimated undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset, an impairment charge is recognized for the excess, if any, of the assets carrying value over its estimated fair value.
As it relates to our ships, the lowest level for which we maintain identifiable cash flows that are independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities is at the individual ship level.
Intangibles Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired in business acquisitions.
We review our goodwill for impairment at least annually and, when events or circumstances dictate, more frequently.
All of our goodwill has been allocated to our reporting units, also referred to as cruise brands.
In 2012, we adopted new authoritative accounting guidance that allows us to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the more detailed two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test.
We would perform the quantitative test if our qualitative assessment determined it is more-likely-than-not that a cruise brands fair value is less than its carrying amount.
We may also elect to bypass the qualitative assessment and proceed directly to the quantitative test for any cruise brand.
When performing the quantitative test, if the fair value of the cruise brand exceeds its carrying value, no further analysis or write-down of goodwill is required.
However, if the fair value of the cruise brand is less than the carrying value of its net assets, the estimated fair value of the cruise brand is assigned to all its underlying assets and liabilities, including both recognized and unrecognized tangible and intangible assets, based on their fair values.
If necessary, goodwill is then written down to its implied fair value.
Trademarks represent substantially all of our other intangibles.
For certain acquisitions, we have allocated a portion of the purchase prices to the acquirees identified trademarks.
Trademarks are estimated to have an indefinite useful life and, therefore, are not amortizable, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually and, when events or circumstances dictate, more frequently.
In 2012, we also adopted new authoritative accounting guidance that allows us to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform a more detailed quantitative trademark impairment test.
We would perform the quantitative test if our qualitative assessment determined it was more-likely-than-not that the trademarks are impaired.
We may also elect to bypass the qualitative assessment and proceed directly to the quantitative test.
Our trademarks would be considered impaired if their carrying value exceeds their estimated fair value.
The costs of developing and maintaining our trademarks are expensed as incurred.
A significant amount of judgment is required in estimating the fair values of our cruise brands and trademarks.
12 Revenue and Expense Recognition Guest cruise deposits represent unearned revenues and are initially recorded as customer deposit liabilities when received.
Customer deposits are subsequently recognized as cruise revenues, together with revenues from onboard and other activities, and all associated direct costs and expenses of a voyage are recognized as cruise costs and expenses, upon completion of voyages with durations of ten nights or less and on a pro rata basis for voyages in excess of ten nights.
The impact of recognizing these shorter duration cruise revenues and costs and expenses on a completed voyage basis versus on a pro rata basis is not material.
Future travel discount vouchers issued to guests are recorded as a reduction of cruise passenger ticket revenues when such vouchers are utilized.
Cancellation fees are recognized in cruise passenger ticket revenues at the time of the cancellation.
Our sale to guests of air and other transportation to and from airports near the home ports of our ships and the related cost of purchasing these services are recorded in cruise passenger ticket revenues and cruise transportation costs, respectively.
The proceeds that we collect from the sale of third party shore excursions and on behalf of onboard concessionaires, net of the amounts remitted to them, are recorded as concession revenues in onboard and other cruise revenues.
All these amounts are recognized on a completed voyage or pro rata basis as discussed above.
Cruise passenger ticket revenues include fees and taxes levied by governmental authorities and collected by us from our guests.
A portion of these fees and taxes vary with guest head counts and are directly imposed on a revenue-producing arrangement.
This portion of the fees and taxes is expensed in commissions, transportation and other costs when the corresponding revenues are recognized.
These fees and taxes included in passenger ticket revenues and commissions, transportation and other costs were $477 million, $405 million and $346 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
The remaining portion of governmental fees and taxes are also included in passenger ticket revenues but are expensed in other ship operating expenses when the corresponding revenues are recognized.
Revenues and expenses from our hotel and transportation operations, which are included in our Tour and Other segment, are recognized at the time the services are performed or expenses are incurred.
Revenues from the leasing of two of our ships to an unaffiliated entity, which are also included in our Tour and Other segment, are recognized ratably over the term of the charter agreement using the straight-line method.
Insurance We maintain insurance to cover a number of risks including, among others, illness and injury to crew, guest injuries, pollution, damages to hull and machinery for each of our ships, war risks, workers compensation, employee health, directors and officers liability, property damages and general liabilities for third party claims.
All of our insurance policies are subject to coverage limits, exclusions and deductible levels.
The liabilities associated with crew illnesses and crew and guest injury claims, including all legal costs, are estimated based on the specific merits of the individual claims or actuarially estimated based on historical claims experience, loss development factors and other assumptions.
While we believe our estimated accrued claims reserves are adequate, the ultimate losses may differ.
Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling expenses include a broad range of advertising, such as marketing and promotional expenses.
Advertising is charged to expense as incurred, except for media production costs.
Media production costs are recorded as prepaid expenses and charged to expense upon the first airing of the advertisement.
Advertising expenses totaled $527 million in both 2012 and 2011 and $507 million in 2010.
Administrative expenses represent the costs of our shoreside ship support, reservations and other administrative functions, and include, among others, salaries and related benefits, professional fees and occupancy costs, which are typically expensed as incurred.
13 Foreign Currency Translations and Transactions Each business determines its functional currency by reference to its primary economic environment.
We translate the assets and liabilities of our foreign operations that have functional currencies other than the U. S. dollar at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date.
Revenues and expenses of these foreign operations are translated at weighted-average exchange rates for the period.
Their equity is translated at historical rates and the resulting foreign currency translation adjustments are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income AOCI, which is a separate component of shareholders equity.
Therefore, the U. S. dollar value of these non-equity translated items in our consolidated financial statements will fluctuate from period to period, depending on the changing value of the U. S. dollar versus these currencies.
Our underlying businesses execute transactions in a number of different currencies, principally the U. S. dollar, euro, sterling and Australian and Canadian dollars.
Exchange gains and losses arising from the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities and foreign currency transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are immediately included in nonoperating earnings, unless such monetary liabilities have been designated to act as hedges of net investments in our foreign operations.
These net gains or losses included in nonoperating earnings were insignificant in 2012, 2011 and 2010.
In addition, the unrealized gains or losses on our long-term intercompany receivables denominated in a non-functional currency, which are not expected to be repaid in the foreseeable future and are therefore considered to form part of our net investments, are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments, which are included as a component of AOCI.
Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during each period.
Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing adjusted net income by the weighted-average number of shares, common stock equivalents and other potentially dilutive securities outstanding during each period.
For earnings per share purposes, Carnival Corporation common stock and Carnival plc ordinary shares are considered a single class of shares since they have equivalent rights see Note 3.
All shares that were issuable under our previously outstanding convertible notes that had contingent share conversion features were considered outstanding for our 2010 diluted earnings per share computations, if dilutive, using the if converted method of accounting from the date of issuance.
Share-Based Compensation We recognize compensation expense for all share-based compensation awards using the fair value method.
Share-based compensation cost is recognized ratably using the straight-line attribution method over the expected vesting period or to the retirement eligibility date, if less than the vesting period, when vesting is not contingent upon any future performance.
For performance-based share awards, we recognize compensation cost over the vesting period based on the probability of the performance condition being achieved over the vesting period.
If the performance condition is not met, compensation expense will not be recognized and any previously recognized compensation expense will be reversed.
In addition, we estimate the amount of expected forfeitures, based on historical forfeiture experience, when calculating compensation cost.
If the actual forfeitures that occur are significantly different from the estimate, then we revise our estimates.
Other Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncement In June 2011, authoritative guidance was issued on the presentation of comprehensive income.
The guidance allows an entity to present components of net income and other comprehensive income in one continuous statement or in two separate but consecutive statements.
The guidance eliminates the option to report other 14
