under both the Repurchase Program and the Stock Swap authorizations require annual shareholder approval.
The existing shareholder approval is limited to a maximum of 21.5 million ordinary shares and is valid until the earlier of the conclusion of the Carnival plc 2013 annual general meeting or October 10, 2013.
Finally, under the Stock Swap programs, any sales of the Carnival Corporation common stock and Carnival plc ordinary shares have been or will be registered under the Securities Act.
During 2012 and 2011, no Carnival Corporation common stock or Carnival plc ordinary shares were sold or repurchased under the Stock Swap programs.
During 2010, Carnival Investments Limited sold 14.8 million shares of Carnival plc ordinary shares for total net proceeds of $545 million.
Substantially all of the net proceeds of these sales were used to purchase 14.8 million shares of Carnival Corporation common stock.
During 2010, no Carnival Corporation common stock was sold and no Carnival plc ordinary shares were repurchased under the Stock Swap program.
At January 22, 2013, the remaining availability under the Stock Swap programs repurchase authorizations were 18.1 million Carnival plc ordinary shares and 32.8 million Carnival Corporation common stock.
At November 30, 2012, we had liquidity of $6.0 billion.
Our liquidity consisted of $195 million of cash and cash equivalents, which excludes $270 million of cash used for current operations, $2.5 billion available for borrowing under our revolving credit facilities and $3.3 billion under committed ship financings.
Of this $3.3 billion of committed ship financings, $0.8 billion, $1.0 billion, $1.0 billion and $0.4 billion are scheduled to be funded in 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively.
Substantially all of our revolving credit facilities are scheduled to mature in 2016.
These commitments are from numerous large and well-established banks and export credit agencies, which we believe will honor their contractual agreements with us.
In December 2012, we issued $500 million of unsecured publicly-traded notes, which bear interest at 1.9% and are due in 2017.
We are using the net proceeds of these notes for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of portions of debt facilities maturing in 2013.
Substantially all of our debt agreements contain financial covenants as described in Note 5 Debt in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
At November 30, 2012, we believe we were in compliance with our debt covenants.
In addition, based on, among other things, our forecasted operating results, financial condition and cash flows, we expect to be in compliance with our debt covenants for the foreseeable future.
Generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, substantially all of our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due, and all debt and derivative contracts could be terminated.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements, including guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests, certain derivative instruments and variable interest entities that either have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial statements.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk For a discussion of our hedging strategies and market risks, see the discussion below and Note 11 Fair Value Measurements, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risks Operational and Investment Currency Risks We have $235 million of foreign currency forwards that are designated as hedges of our net investments in foreign operations, which have a euro-denominated functional currency, thus partially offsetting this foreign 57
