SVG Capital plc Business Corporate Financial Co Com mp pa an ny y Annual report Overview review information information inf info or rm ma at tion ion 2012 101 Glossary of terms Early-stage Public to private Hurdle rate Purchase of the share capital of a company Arrangement that caps the downside Seed: quoted on a stock exchange with the riskfor investors.
It allows investors to Financing provided to allow a business intention of fide-listing the company and getpreferential access to the profits of concept to be developed, perhaps taking it private.
In the absence of reaching involving production of prototypes and the hurdle return, general partners will additional research, prior to bringing a notreceive a share of the profit carried General Terms product to market.
A hurdle rate of 8% means Carried interest carry.
thatthe private equity fund needs to Start-up: achieve areturn of at least 8% before Carried interest or simply carry theprots are shared according to the Financing provided to companies for the represents the share of a private equity carried interest arrangement.
use in product development and initial funds profit usually 20% that will accrue marketing.
Companies may be in the to the general partners.
process of being set up or may have been Limited partnership Committed funds or raised funds or in business for a short time, but have not committed capital is capital committed Most private equity rms structure their sold their product commercially.
This will be requested or funds as limited partnerships.
Investors drawn down by private equity managers represent the limited partners and private Other early-stage: on a deal-by-deal basis.
This amount is equity managers thegeneral partners.
Financing provided to companies that different from invested funds for two havecompleted the product development reasons.
Firstly, most partnerships will Realisation stage and require further funds to initiate invest only between 80% and 95% of commercial manufacturing and sales.
Second, one has to The sale of an investment.
Theywill not yet be generating profit.
deduct the annual management fee which is supposed to cover the cost of operation Secondary market of a fund.
Late-stage The secondary market enables institutional investors to sell their stakes ina private Expansion nancing: Distributions equity partnership before it is wound up.
Capital provided for the growth and Payments to investors after the realisation expansion of a company which is breaking of investments of the partnership.
Trade sale even or even trading profitably.
Funds may be used to finance increased production Sale of the equity share of an investee Divestments or realisations or exits capacity, market or product development company to another company.
and or provide additional working capital.
Exits of investments, usually via a trade sale Capital provided for turnaround situations or an IPO Initial Public Offering on a stock Turnaround is also included in this category.
A loss-making company which can Management Buy-In MBI : besuccessfully transformed into Draw downs calls aprotmaker.
Funds provided to enable a manager or Payments to the partnership by investors group of managers from outside the Further information on our website inorder to finance investments.
Funds Company to buy into the Company.
com aredrawn down from investors on a deal-by-deal basis.
Management Buy-Out MBO : Funds provided to enable current Fund of funds operating management and investors toacquire an existing business.
Private equity funds whose principal activity consists of investing in other private equity funds.
Investors in funds of funds Follow-on investment can thereby increase their level of A company which has previously received diversication.
Gearing, debt equity ratio Secondary purchase orleverage Purchase of existing shares in a company The level of a companys borrowings as from another private equity rm, or from apercentage of shareholder funds.
Explanatory notes and additional information plc 1.
Ordinary shareholders or their duly appointed representatives are entitled to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
An ordinary shareholder entitled to attend, speak and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting to represent you.
Forms appointing proxies must be completed and returned to the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
To appoint more than one proxy, please contact Equiniti Limited, who will be able to advise you how to do this, on 0871 384 2776.
Calls from within the UK are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras.
The Equiniti overseas helpline number is 44 121 415 7047 Form of proxy lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Completion and return of a form of proxy, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraphs 6 to 9 below will not preclude a member from attending and voting inperson.
In case of a member which is a company, the proxy form must be executed under its seal or signed on its behalf by an officer of the company or an Voting ID Task ID Shareholder Reference Number attorney for the company.
Any power of attorney or any other authority under which the proxy form is signed or a duly certificated copy of such power or authority must be included with the proxy form.
On a vote by show of hands, every ordinary shareholder who is present in person has one vote and every duly appointed proxy who is present has one vote.
On a poll vote, every ordinary shareholder who is present in person or by way of proxy has one vote for every share of which he she is a holder.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolution.
If an ordinary shareholder does not specify how he she wants the proxy to vote on the particular resolutions, the proxy may vote or abstain as he she sees fit.
A proxy may also abstain as he she sees fit on any other business which properly comes before the Annual General Meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General You may submit your proxy electronically at www.
co. uk using the above numbers.
Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored I We, being an ordinary shareholder s of SVG Capital plc, hereby appoint the Chairman of the meeting OR the following person: members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting services provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual which can be viewed at www.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by Please leave this box blank if you have selected the Chairman.
Do not insert your own name s the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the as my our proxy to exercise all or any of my our rights to attend, speak and vote in respect of my our voting entitlement message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of SVG Capital plc to be held at 11.30 a. m. on Wednesday, 27 March 2013 be communicated to the appointee through other means.
at 61 Aldwych, London WC2B 4AE and at any adjournment thereof.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy For the appointment of more than one proxy, please refer to note 2 opposite and tick here.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST member or sponsored member or 5 has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to Ordinary Resolutions For Against Withheld ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, 1.
their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
If two or more ordinar y shareholders jointly hold shares in the Company, each shareholder may attend, speak and vote at the meeting, appoint a proxy 4.
However, if more than one joint holder votes, whether in person or by proxy, only the vote of the senior joint holder will count.
Seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
If an ordinar y shareholder submits more than one valid proxy appointment, the appointment received last before the latest time for receipt of proxies 6.
Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person that has been nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to e njoy information 7.
Re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors.
rights nominated persons does not have a right to appoint a proxy.
However, a nominated person may, under an agreement with the registered shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
Authority for Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
if a nominated person does not have such a right, or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right under any such agreement to give instructions 9.
to the registered shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that only those Shareholde rs registered in the Special Resolutions Register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on 25 March 2013 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of Shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the Register of members after 6.00 p. m. on 25 March 2013 shall be disregarded in determining 10.
Holding general meetings on not less than 14 clear days notice.
the right of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
If the meeting is adjourned, such entitlement is determined by reference to the Register of 11.
members at 6.00 p. m. on the day two days preceding the date fixed for the adjourned meeting.
As at 19 Februar y 2013, 290,032,690 ordinary shares of 1.00 each were in issue, of which 18,616,535 were held as treasury shares.
Authority to purchase own shares.
total number of voting rights of the Company as at 19 February 2013 was 271,416,155.
As at 19 February 2013, the Company holds 18,616,535 treasury shares.
Adoption of new Articles of Association.
Copies of the terms of appointment of the non-executive Directors and a statement of all transactions of each Director and of his family interests in theshares of the Company and a copy of the executive Directors service contract will be available for inspection by any member of the Company at The profiles of the Directors proposed for election and or re-election are set out on pages 28 and 29 of the Annual Report the registered office of the Company, 61 Aldwych, London WC2B 4AE, during normal business hours on any weekday English public holidays excepted and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012. and by any person attending the Annual General Meetingfor at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
The profile of each Director offering himself for election and or re-election is set out on pages 28 and 29 of the Annual Report and Accounts of SVG Capital plc for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The full terms of the new Articles of Association of the Company which will apply if Resolution 13 is passed, together with a v ersion showing the changes proposed, are available for inspection until the close of the Annual General Meeting at the registered office of the Company.
Shareholders may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documen ts to communicate I We would like my our proxy to vote on the resolutions proposed at the Meeting as indicated on this form.
Unless otherwise with the Company for any purposes other than expressly stated.
instructed the proxy may vote as he or she sees fit or abstain in relation to any business of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
The Board considers that all the resolutions to be put to the meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its Sharehol ders as a whole and recommends that you vote in favour of each of the resolutions.
Pursuant to section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to t he business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member attending the meeting, except in certain circumstances, including if it is undesirable in the interests of Signature Date the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered or if to do so would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
In the case of a corporation, this proxy must be given under its common seal or be on its behalf by an attorney or duly authorised 21.
In accordance with section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members officer, stating their capability e. g. director, secretary.
matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys website www.
Please complete this form and return it to Equiniti in the envelope provided, to arrive not later than 11.30 a. m. on the 25th of March 2013 being 48 hours in advance of the time set for the meeting.
Explanatory notes on the completion of this form of proxy are set out opposite.
plc Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE is hereby given that the sixteenth annual general meeting of SVG Capital plc will be held at 11.30 a. m. on 27 March 2013 at61Aldwych, London WC2B4AE to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions the Resolutions, of which Resolutions 1 to 9 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 10 to 13 will be proposed as special resolutions: Ordinary resolutions 1.
T o receive the Report of the Directors and the audited Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 together with the Auditors report on those Accounts.
T o approve the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2012.
T o elect Stephen Duckett as a Director of the Company.
T o re-elect Andrew Sykes as a Director of the Company.
T o re-elect Lynn Fordham as a Director of the Company.
T o re-elect Charles Sinclair as a Director of the Company.
T o re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors of the Company.
T o authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors of the Company.
That, in substitution for all subsisting authorities, the Board be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company: A up to a nominal amount of 2,900,326 equivalent to 1% of the issued ordinar y share capital of the Company as at 19 February 2013 in connection with the SVG Capital 2007 Performance Share Plan: B up to a nominal amount of 90,472,051 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount allotted or granted under paragraph C below in excess of such sum : and C comprising equity securities as defined in Section 560 1 of the Companies Act 2006 up to a nominal amount of 180,944,103 su chamount to be reduced by any allotments or grants made under paragraph B above in connection with an offer by way ofarights issue: i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter, such authorities to apply until the end of next years annual general meeting or, if earlier, until the close of business on 26 June 2014 but, in each case, during this period the Company may make offers and enter into agreements which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after the authority ends and the Board may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not ended.
That a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
That if Resolution 9 is passed, the Board be given power to allot equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for cash under the authority given by that Resolution and or to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to any such allotment or sale, such power to be limited: A to the allotment of equity securities and or sale of treasur y shares up to a nominal amount of 2,900,326 equivalent to 1% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 19 February 2013 in connection with the SVG Capital 2007 Performance Share Plan: B to the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury shares for cash in connection with an offer of, or invitation to apply for, equity securities but in the case of the authority granted under paragraph C of Resolution 9, by way of a rights issue only : i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities, or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, anyterritory or any other matter: and C in the case of the authority granted under paragraph B of resolution 9 and or in the case of any sale of treasur y shares for cash, to the allotment otherwise than under paragraph B above of equity securities up to a nominal amount of 13,570,807 equivalent to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 19 February 2013, such power to apply until the end of next years annual general meeting or, if earlier, until the close of business on 26 June 2014 but, in each case, during this period the Company may make offers and enter into agreements which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after the power ends and the Board may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ended.
Without prejudice to any subsisting or future authorities, that the Company be authorised for the purposes of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make one or more market purchases as defined in Section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of its ordinary shares of1.00 each Ordinary Shares, suchpower to be limited: A to a maximum number of 40,685,281 Ordinar y Shares equivalent to 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 19February 2013 : B by the condition that the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 1.00 and the maximum price which maybe paid for an Ordinary Share is the highest of: i an amount equal to 5% above the average market value of an Ordinar y Share for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried out, in each case, exclusive of expenses: and C by the condition that pur chases may only be made pursuant to this authority if the Ordinary Shares are at the date of the proposed purchase trading on the London Stock Exchange at a discount to the latest published net asset value per ordinary share, such power to apply until the end of next years annual general meeting or, if earlier, until the close of business on 26 June 2014 butin each case so that the Company may enter into a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the power ends and the Company may purchase Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract asifthe power had not ended.
Ordinary shares purchased under this authority may be sold for cash, transferred to satisfy claims under employee share schemes, held in treasury or cancelled.
That the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of the existing .
By order of the Board: Stuart Ballard, Company Secretary, 21 February 2013 Registered Office: 61 Aldwych, London WC2B 4AE.
Registered in England and Wales No.
com Dear Shareholder, Our Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 has now been published and is available to view and download from the Companys website, www.
We enclose the Notice of Annual General Meeting AGM and a form of proxy, together with a pre-paid envelope for submission of proxy form s. Proxies may also be submitted electronically at www.
co. uk by entering the Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference number set out in the attached proxy form.
Alternatively, Ordinary Shareholders who have already registered with Equinitis Shareview service can appoint their proxy proxies by logging onto their account at www.
co. uk and clicking on the link to vote under SVG Capital plc.
You can elect to receive email communications to indicate that documents and other information are available on the Companys website by logging onto www.
co. uk and clicking on the link to sign up for paper-free communications.
Your option selected can be fide-selected at any time by logging onto your account on the above mentioned shareview website.
Registered Office: Please note that shareholders may request a printed copy of a document at any time, and future publications, by writing to the Company 61 Aldwych Secretary at 61 Aldwych, London WC2B 4AE.
We will send any specifically requested documents to you free of charge within 21 days from London WC2B 4AE receiving your request.
Yours faithfully, Registered in England: No.
Stuart Ballard, Company Secretary 3066856 SVG Capital plc Head ofce 61 Aldwych London WC2B 4AE Telephone 020 7010 8900 Fax 020 7010 8950 www.
com Design and production by Radley Yeldar www.
com This report has been printed on Hello Silk a paper which is certied bythe Forest Stewardship Council.
The paper is made at a mill withEMAS and ISO 14001 environmental management system accreditation.
This report was printed using vegetable oil based inksand by a CarbonNeutral printer certied to ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS theEcoManagement Audit Scheme.
