Active investment working for you Notice of meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take you should consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 immediately.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your ordinary shares in Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC, please forward this document and the accompanying form of proxy as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was or is being effected for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the eighty-seventh Annual General Meeting of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC will be held at 11.00am on Monday 25 March 2013 at Woolgate Exchange, 25 Basinghall Street, London EC2V 5HA for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS: 1.
To approve the Companys accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 together with the reports of the directors and auditor thereon.
To approve the report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2012.
To declare a final dividend of 22.0p per ordinary share.
To re-elect Mr A T Copple as a director.
To re-elect Mrs J F fide Moller as a director.
To re-elect Mr R W Jewson as a director.
To re-elect Mr J Reeve as a director.
To re-elect Mr M R Riley as a director.
To re-elect Mr D G C Webster as a director.
To re-appoint the auditor and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions: ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS: 11.
That the Companys investment policy be amended so that the Company may increase the level of its portfolio investments in listed international equities in developed economies from 10% of the portfolio to 20% of the portfolio.
That the Company may typically invest the majority of the portfolio in constituents of the FTSE 350 Index rather than the FTSE 100 Index.
That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares Rights up to an aggregate maximum nominal amount of 1,513,784, being approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 19 February 2013, provided that: i the authority granted shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2014 but may be revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting and may be renewed by the Company in general meeting: and ii the said authority shall allow and enable the directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares and grant Rights in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if that authority had not expired.
42 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Active investment working for you Notice of meeting continued SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS: 14.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 13 set out above, the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 570-573 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities as defined in Section 570-573 of that Act for cash, in accordance with the authority conferred on them by this meeting to allot shares, as if Section 561 i of that Act did not apply to the allotment, provided that the power conferred by this resolution shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on the record date of such allotment but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal problems under the law of or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory : and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub paragraph i above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value not exceeding 1,513,784: and shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2014 save that the Company may make an offer or agreement before this power has expired, which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
That the Company generally be and is hereby authorised for the purpose of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases as defined in Section 693 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for such shares is 25p per share: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses payable by the Company which may be paid for such shares shall be 5% above the average of the market value of the share quotations taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days before the purchase is made: iv the authority hereby conferred shall unless previously renewed or revoked expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2014, or, if earlier, the date falling fifteen months from the date of this resolution: v the Company may make a contract to purchase its own shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of its own shares in pursuance of any such contract.
That the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company be amended by deleting from Articles 153 the sentence beginning The Capital Reserve referred to in... deleting Article 157 in its entirety, together with the renumbering of Articles and the amendment of cross-references necessary as a result of the removal of Article 157, and deleting the words Capital Reserve or beginning on the third line of Article 158.
By order of the Board of Directors Woolgate Exchange M K Slade 25 Basinghall Street For Investec Asset Management Limited London EC2V 5HA Secretary 19 February 2013 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 43 ALDERSGATE ST PRINCES ST E ST NEW GAT GRESHAM ST CHEAPSIDE LONDON WALL POULTRY S LOTHBURY BASINGHALL AVE Active investment working for you Notice of meeting continued Shown is a plan of the location of Investec Asset Management Limited, Woolgate Exchange, 25 Basinghall BARBICAN Street, London EC2V 5HA where the Annual General Meeting will be held MOORGATE on Monday 25 March 2013 at 11.00am.
Please note that this is a different location to where Temple Bars AGMs have been held in recent years.
ST PAULS BANK Investec Asset Management 44 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 U LONDON WALL T S E C THREADNEEDLE ST QUEEN VICTORIA ST U R G A T I A M Y N R N U B C MILK ST WOOD ST NOBLE ST MOORGATE COL OLD JEWRY MOO LANE N ST E EMA RGAT ST MA R R T I N S WOOD ST FOSTER E L D N A R D KING ST G E E L D W A GUTTER LA B O A R D S T M T NE A S I N Y S R L L A H G U B S N I F Active investment working for you Notice of meeting continued NOTES 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the above 5.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend the proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy meeting to speak and vote on a show of hands and, on appointment service may do so for the meeting and a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures member of the Company.
A member wishing to appoint described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal more than one proxy must appoint each proxy in members or other CREST sponsored members and respect of a specified number of shares within his those CREST members who have appointed a voting holding.
For this purpose, a member may photocopy service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor the enclosed Form of Proxy before completion and or voting service provider s who will be able to take must indicate the number of shares in respect of which the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a 2.
Instruments of proxy should be sent to Equiniti Limited, CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex in accordance with Euroclears specifications and must BN99 6DA so as to arrive no later than 11.00am on contain the information required for such instructions, as 21 March 2013.
Completion and return of the form of described in the CREST Manual available via proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending www.
The CREST message must be and voting at the meeting in person should they wish to transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID do so.
RA19 by not later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or the adjourned meeting.
Members who hold ordinary shares in the Company in uncertificated form must have been entered on the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as Companys register of members by 6.00pm on determined by the timestamp applied to the CREST 21 March 2013 in order to be able to attend and vote message by the CREST Applications Host from which at the meeting, or if the meeting is adjourned, 6.00pm the issuers agent is able to retrieve the CREST message on the day two business days before the time fixed for by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
Such members may only vote After this time any change of instructions to proxies at the meeting in respect of ordinary shares held at the appointed through CREST should be communicated to time.
the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 4.
In accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act sponsors or voting service provider s, should note that 2006, the right to appoint proxies does not apply to Euroclear does not make available special procedures in persons nominated to receive information rights under CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system Section 146 of the Act.
Persons nominated to receive timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to information rights under Section 146 of the Act who the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the have been sent a copy of this notice of meeting are responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take hereby informed, in accordance with Section 149 2 of or, if the CREST member s is are a CREST personal the Act, that they may have a right under an agreement member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting with the registered member by whom they were service provider s, to procure that the CREST sponsor or nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else voting service provider takes such action as shall be appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If they have no necessary to ensure that a CREST message is transmitted such right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In a right under such an agreement to give instructions to this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s is are Nominated persons should contact the registered referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST member by whom they were nominated in respect of Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST these arrangements.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 45 Active investment working for you Notice of meeting continued NOTES CONTINUED 6.
Shareholders should note that, under Section 527 of the 8.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold notice of meeting to communicate with the Company requirements set out in that section have the right to for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: 9.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to i the audit of the Companys accounts including the ask questions.
The Company must cause to be auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are answered any such question relating to the business to be laid before the Annual General Meeting for the being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer financial year beginning 1 January 2012: or need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the with the preparation for the meeting or involve the Company appointed for the financial year 1 January disclosure of confidential information, b the answer 2012 ceasing to hold office since the previous has already been given on a website in the form of an meeting at which annual accounts and reports were answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the laid.
The Company may not require the shareholders interests of the Company or the good order of the requesting any such website publication to pay its meeting that the question be answered.
expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 requirements as to website availability of the 10.
None of the directors has a service contract with the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required Company.
to place a statement on a website under Section 527 11.
As at 19 February 2013, the latest practicable date of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than prior to publication of this document, the Company the time when it makes the statement available on had 60,551,367 ordinary shares in issue with a total of the website.
The business which may be dealt with at 60,551,367 voting rights.
the Annual General Meeting for the relevant financial year includes any statement that the Company has 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act been required under Section 527 of the Companies 2006, the contents of this notice of meeting, details of Act 2006 to publish on a website.
the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the 7.
A member of the Company which is a corporation may AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, authorise a person or persons to act as its members resolutions or members matters of business representative s at the AGM.
In accordance with the received by the Company after the date of this notice provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such will be available on the Companys website: representative may exercise on behalf of the www.
corporation the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
46 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
