Active investment working for you Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Other receivables Taxation Other receivables do not carry any interest, are short-term The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently in nature and are accordingly stated at their nominal value payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated on the taxable profit for the year.
The taxable profit differs irrecoverable amounts.
from profit before tax as reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income because it excludes items of income Investments or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and Investments held at fair value through profit or loss are it further excludes items that are never taxable or initially recognised at fair value, being the consideration deductible.
The Companys liability for current tax is given and excluding transaction or other dealing costs calculated using a blended rate as applicable throughout associated with the investment.
After initial recognition, investments are measured at fair In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the value through profit or loss.
Gains or losses on investments allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses measured at fair value through profit or loss are included in presented against capital returns in the supplementary net profit or loss as a capital item and transaction costs on information in the Statement of Comprehensive Income is acquisition or disposal of investments are expensed.
Under this basis, if taxable income is investments that are actively traded in organised financial capable of being entirely offset by expenses in the revenue markets, fair value is determined by reference to stock column of the income statement, then no tax relief is exchange quoted market bid prices at the close of business transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or All purchases and sales of investments are recognised on recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of the trade date i. e. the date that the Company commits to assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the purchase or sell an asset.
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability Financial liabilities and equity instruments method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are according to the substance of the contractual arrangements recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that profits will be available against which deductible temporary evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company differences can be utilised.
after deducting all of its liabilities.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled Interest bearing borrowings or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited Interest bearing borrowings, being the debenture stocks in the revenue return column of the income statement, issued by the Company, are initially recognised at cost, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly being the proceeds received net of issue costs associated to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, interest equity.
bearing borrowings are subsequently measured at Investment trusts which have approval under Section amortised cost using the effective interest method.
1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
Other payables Other payables are non interest bearing and are stated at Financial instruments their nominal value.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Statement of Financial Position when the Company Equity dividends payable becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the Equity dividends payable are recognised when the instrument.
The Company shall offset financial assets and shareholders right to receive payment is established.
financial liabilities if the Company has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and interests and Finance costs intends to settle on a net basis.
Financial assets and Interest payable on debentures in issue is accrued at the liabilities are derecognised when the Company settles its effective interest rate.
In accordance with the expected obligations relating to the instrument.
long-term division of returns, 40% of the interest for the year is charged to revenue, and the other 60% is charged to capital, net of any incremental corporation tax relief.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 33
