Active investment working for you Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL COMMITMENTS As at 31 December 2012 there were no contingent liabilities or capital commitments for the Company 2011: nil.
20 NET ASSET VALUES Net asset value Net assets per ordinary share attributable Pence 000 Ordinary shares of 25p each 992.86 601,191 The net asset value per ordinary share is based on net assets at the year-end of 601,191,000 2011: 522,040,000 and on 60,551,367 2011: 59,701,367 ordinary shares in issue at the year-end.
21 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS IAS 24 Related party disclosures requires the disclosure of the details of material transactions between the Company and any related parties.
Accordingly, the disclosures required are set out below: Directors The remuneration of the directors is set out in the Report on Directors Remuneration on page 22.
There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a director of the Company is or was interested and which are or were significant in relation to the Companys business.
There were no other material transactions during the year with the directors of the Company.
22 RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Companys investing activities undertaken in pursuit of its investment objective, as set out on page 16, involve certain inherent risks.
The main risks arising from the Companys financial instruments are market price risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, credit risk and currency risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks as summarised below.
These policies have remained substantially unchanged during the current and preceding periods.
Market price risk Market price risk arises mainly from uncertainty about future prices of financial instruments used in the Companys business.
It represents the potential loss the Company might suffer through holding market positions in the face of price movements.
The Board meets on seven scheduled occasions in each year and at each meeting it receives sufficient financial and statistical information to enable it to monitor adequately the investment performance and status of the business.
In addition, financial information is circulated to the directors on a monthly basis.
The Board has also established a series of investment parameters, which are reviewed annually, designed to limit the risk inherent in managing a portfolio of investments.
The Companys borrowings have the effect of increasing the risk faced by shareholders.
This gearing effect is such that, for example, for a 10% movement in the valuation of the Companys investments, the net assets attributable to shareholders would move by approximately 11.1%.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk of movements in the value of financial instruments that arise as a result of fluctuations in interest rates.
The Company finances its operations through retained profits including capital profits, and additional financing is obtained through the two debenture stocks in issue, on which interest is paid at a fixed rate.
Liquidity risk The Companys assets comprise mainly readily realisable securities, which can be sold to meet funding commitments if necessary.
Short-term flexibility is achieved through the use of cash balances and short-term bank deposits.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will fail to discharge an obligation and cause the other party to incur a financial loss.
This is mitigated by the Manager reviewing the credit ratings of broker counterparties.
The risk attached to dividend flows is mitigated by the Managers research of potential investee companies.
The Companys custodian bank is responsible for the collection of income on behalf of the Company.
Cash is held either with reputable banks with high quality external credit enhancements or in liquidity cash funds providing a spread of exposures to various underlying banks in order to diversify risk.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 39
