THE GROUP COMPANY General Shareholder Information Release of Results Internet The half year results are announced in late November.
The full year Details of the market price and Net Asset Value of the Ordinary results are announced in late May.
and Sigma shares can be found at www.
co. uk on the Companys website.
Annual General Meeting Shareholders who hold their shares in certificated form can check The AGM is held in London in July.
their holdings with the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, via www.
Please note that to gain access Dividend Payment Dates to your details on the Computershare site you will need the holder Dividends are usually paid on the Ordinary and Sigma shares as reference number stated on the top left hand corner of your share follows: certificate.
Interim : January Final : August Disability Act Copies of this Report and Accounts and other documents issued by Dividend Payments the Company are available from the Company Secretary.
If needed, Dividends can be paid to Ordinary and Sigma shareholders by copies can be made available in a variety of formats, including means of BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services : mandate Braille, audio tape or larger type as appropriate.
forms for this purpose are available from the Registrar.
Alternatively, shareholders can write to the Registrar the address is given on You can contact the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services page 96 of this report to give their instructions: these must PLC, which has installed textphones to allow speech and hearing include the bank account number, the bank account title and the impaired people who have their own textphone to contact them sort code of the bank to which payments are to be made.
directly, without the need for an intermediate operator, by dialling Share Price Listings 0870 702 0005.
Specially trained operators are available during The market prices of the Companys Ordinary and Sigma shares normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
are published daily in The Financial Times.
Some of the information is published in other leading newspapers.
The Financial Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator Times also shows figures for the estimated Net Asset Values and provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People you the discounts applicable.
should dial 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
Share Price Information Nominee Share Code Ordinary Shares Sigma Shares Where notification has been provided in advance, the Company ISIN GB0009064097 GB00B1YW2J11 will arrange for copies of shareholder communications to be SEDOL 0906409 B1YW2J1 provided to the operators of nominee accounts.
LN may attend general meetings and speak at meetings when invited Reuters TRY.
Datastream TRY TRYS CGT Base Cost Benchmark Taxation of capital gains for shareholders who converted Details of the benchmarks for each share class are given in the Ordinary shares to Sigma shares Statement of Investment Objective and Policy on pages 2 and 3 of this Report and Accounts.
The benchmark indices are published Upon a disposal of all or part of a shareholders holding of daily and can be found on Bloomberg.
Ordinary shares or as the case may be Sigma shares, the shareholders original capital gains tax base cost in his existing Ordinary share class holding of Ordinary shares will have to be apportioned between FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed Europe Net Total Return Index that shareholders Ordinary shares and Sigma shares.
in Sterling Bloomberg: NPPRA Index We have now agreed with HM Revenue & Customs HMRC to base this apportionment of the original capital gains tax base cost Sigma share class on the proportion of existing Ordinary shares that were converted FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed Europe Small Cap Net Total Return by a shareholder into Sigma shares on 25 July 2007.
Index in Sterling Bloomberg: TGPTHR02 Index Therefore, if an Ordinary shareholder converted 20% of their existing Ordinary shares into Sigma shares on 25 July 2007, the TR Property Investment Trust 97 THE GROUP COMPANY General Shareholder Information continued capital gains tax base cost of the new Sigma shares acquired would be equal to 20% of the original capital gains tax base cost of the Ordinary shares that they held pre-conversion.
The base cost of their remaining holding of Ordinary shares would then be 80% of the original capital gains tax base cost of their Ordinary shares held pre-conversion.
If in doubt as to the consequences of this agreement with HMRC, shareholders should consult with their own professional advisors.
