THE GROUP COMPANY Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of to allot shares and grant rights pursuant to any such offers TR Property Investment Trust plc will be held at 12 noon on or agreements as if this authority had not expired.
Tuesday 24 July 2012 at the Royal Automobile Club, 89 91 Pall 14 THAT Mall, London SW1Y 5HS for the purpose of transacting the following business: a subject to the passing of Resolution 13 set out above the directors be empowered pursuant to Section 570 To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions, and Section 573 of the Act to allot equity securities as of which Resolutions 1 to 13 will be proposed as Ordinary defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to Resolutions and Resolutions 14 and 15 shall be proposed as the authority conferred by Resolution 13 above and or Special Resolutions.
to sell shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply 1 To receive the Report of the Directors and the Audited to any such allotment, provided that this power shall Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2012. be limited to: 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year i the allotment of equity securities and sale of ended 31 March 2012. treasury shares for cash in connection with an offer of, or invitation to apply for, equity securities: 3 To declare a final dividend of 4.20 pence per Ordinary share.
aa to shareholders in proportion as nearly as 4 To declare a final dividend of 1.65 pence per Sigma share.
may be practicable to their existing holdings: and 5 To elect Simon Marrison as a director.
bb to holders of other equity securities, as 6 To elect David Watson as a director.
required by the rights of those securities, or as 7 To re-elect Hugh Seaborn as a director.
the Board otherwise considers necessary, 8 To re-elect Paul Spencer as a director.
and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it 9 To re-elect Caroline Burton as a director.
considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, 10 To re-elect Peter Salsbury as a director.
legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and 11 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Company.
12 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration ii in the case of the authority granted under of the auditors.
Resolution 13 and or in the case of any sale of treasury shares for cash, to the allotment 13 THAT the directors be generally and unconditionally otherwise than under paragraph i above of authorised pursuant to and in accordance to Section 551 of equity securities or sale of treasury shares up to a the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the nominal amount of 3,979,200 being powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and approximately 5% of the total issued share capital to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security of the Company as at the latest practicable date into, shares in the Company up to a nominal value of prior to publication of the notice of meeting, 26,262,720 being approximately 33% of the total issued share capital of the Company as at the latest practicable b the power given by this resolution shall expire upon date prior to publication of the notice of the meeting the expiry of the authority conferred by Resolution 13 provided that this authority shall expire at the date of the above, save that the Company shall be entitled to next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, make offers or agreements before the expiry of such at the close of business on 24 October 2013, save that power which would or might require equity securities the Company shall be entitled to make offers or to be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall agreements before the expiry of this authority which would be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be such offer or agreement as if the power conferred granted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled hereby had not expired.
90 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 15 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and e the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Company in 2013 or at any other general meeting Section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary shares of 25 pence prior to such time, save that the Company shall be each and Sigma shares of 12.5 pence each in the capital of entitled to enter into a contract to purchase Ordinary the Company on such terms and in such manner as the shares and or Sigma shares which will, or may, be directors may from time to time determine provided that: completed or executed wholly or partly after the power expires and the Company may purchase Ordinary a the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby shares and or Sigma shares pursuant to such contract authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Companys Ordinary shares in issue at the date of the Annual General Meeting equivalent to 38,408,128 In accordance with the Articles of Association holders of Ordinary shares of 25 pence each at 8 June 2012, Sigma shares do not have the right to vote on a declaration the date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting : of a dividend in respect of the Ordinary shares.
In accordance with the Articles of Association holders of b the maximum number of Sigma shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the Ordinary shares do not have the right to vote on a declaration of a dividend in respect of the Sigma shares.
Companys Sigma shares in issue at the date of the Annual General Meeting equivalent to 18,620,878 Holders of Ordinary shares will vote on Resolution 15 Sigma shares of 12.5 pence each at 8 June 2012, only in respect of market purchases of Ordinary shares and the date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting : holders of Sigma shares will vote on Resolution 15 only in c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may respect of market purchases of Sigma shares.
be paid for any such share shall not be more than the higher of: Registered Office: Registered in England No: 84492 51 Berkeley Square i 105% of the average of the middle market London quotations for an Ordinary share if an Ordinary W1J 5BB share is being purchased or of a Sigma share if a Sigma share is being purchased as taken from the By Order of the Board London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date Jonathan Carslake For and on behalf of on which the Company agrees to buy the shares concerned: and Capita Company Secretarial Services Secretary ii the higher of the price of the last independent 8 June 2012 trade and the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary share or Sigma share as the case may be in the Company on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out at the relevant time.
d the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary share shall be 25 pence, being the nominal value per Ordinary share and for Sigma shares the minimum price shall be 12.5 pence, being the nominal value per Sigma share: TR Property Investment Trust 91 D WHITEHALL A O UR STREET R CHARING CRO AIR ST S R E GREEK ST DEAN STREET G E N T S T S R RUPERT ST OXENDON WARDOUR STREET E E T WHITCOMB STREET SACKVILLE ST ST WARDO DUKE ST BURY ST MARLBOROUGH ROAD REGENT STEET SHERWOOD ST SAVILE ROW ST JAMESS STREET GT WINDMILL ST HAYMARKET LEXINGTON ST ARLINGTON STREET NEW BOND STREET OLD BOND STREET CARNABY ST C IRVING ST I Y Q S T T S S R U E P L DOWNING ST S S U O K H S C S DENMAN ST O THE GROUP COMPANY Notice of Annual General Meeting continued his her name entered on the Register of Members of the Directions Pall Mall Clubhouse Company by 6.00 pm on 22 July 2012 or 6.00 pm on the date 2 days before any adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Leicester Square 3 Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by shareholders of the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company Piccadilly Circus may be required to publish on a website a statement Royal Academy National of Arts Gallery setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the Nelsons Column conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Green Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting Park at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting GREEN ST JAMESS any such website publication to pay its expenses in PARK PARK complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement The Royal Automobile Club has a dress code: available on the website.
The business which may be dealt Jacket and Tie.
with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting 1 Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or 4 Any corporation which is a member of the Company can any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their appoint one or more corporate representatives who may behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise shares.
the rights attached to a different share or shares held by 5 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the whose shares are held on their behalf by another person Company.
To appoint more than one proxy, the proxy form and who have been nominated to receive should be photocopied and the name of the proxy to be communication from the Company in accordance with appointed indicated on each proxy form together with the Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated number of shares that such proxy is appointed in respect of.
Nominated persons may have a right under an To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a agreement with the registered shareholder who holds proxy must be returned by post, by courier or by hand to shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have the Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, or nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not alternatively, by going to www.
com and wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an following the instructions provided.
All proxies must be agreement to given instructions to the person holding the appointed by no later than 48 hours before the time of the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
The return of a completed proxy form or other such 6 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies instrument will not prevent a shareholder attending the through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service AGM and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
may do so for the AGM to be held on 24 July 2012 and 2 In order to be able to attend and vote at the AGM or any any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures adjourned meeting, and also for the purpose of calculating described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal how many votes a person may cast a person must have members or other CREST sponsored members, and 92 TR Property Investment Trust L R A C STREET T L R E G I E A R S D T N S D G G P A E I C C N L L O T A S G MADDOX N I F LEIC I L L R A U GERRARD ST B R BROADWICK STREET T ORANGE ST JAMESS PANTON ST SQ PICCADILY N ST EET KI G R OLD COMPTON STREET ST JAMESS PLACE PALL MALL S RYDER T SQUARE E JERMYN STREET CHARLES II STREET L L UE A N P M BEAK STREET A ESTER CRANBOURN STREET L L E THE MALL V A Y R U B S BREWER STREET E T F A STRAND STREET H SHAFTESBURY AVENUE S CONDUIT STREET MONMOUTH ST ST MARTI ST MARTINS LANE NS PL THE GROUP COMPANY Notice of Annual General Meeting continued those CREST members who have appointed a voting 8 A copy of this notice, and other information required by service provider should refer to their CREST sponsors or section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at voting service provider s, who will be able to take the www.
appropriate action on their behalf.
9 Members satisfying the thresholds in section 338 of the In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by Companies Act 2006 may require the Company to give, to means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly Annual General Meeting, notice of a resolution which those authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland members intend to move and which may properly be Limiteds specifications and must contain the information moved at the Annual General Meeting.
A resolution may required for such instructions, as described in the CREST properly be moved at the Annual General Meeting unless Manual.
The message must be transmitted so as to be i it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of received by the Companys agent, Computershare any inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys Investor Services PLC CREST Participant ID: 3RA50, no consitution or otherwise : ii it is defamatory of any later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the person: or iii it is frivolous or vexatious.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be pursuant of this right may be in hard copy or electronic taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be applied to the message by the CREST Application Host given, must be authenticated by the person s making it from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the and must be received by the Company not later than six message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed weeks before the date of the Annual General Meeting.
10 Members satisfying the thresholds in section 338A of the CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST Companies Act 2006 may request the Company to include sponsor or voting service provider should note that in the business to be dealt with at the Annual General Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available Meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
which may properly be included in the business at the Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply Annual General Meeting.
A matter may properly be in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is included in the business at the Annual General Meeting the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take unless i it is defamatory of any person or ii it is frivolous or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or or vexatious.
A request made pursuant of this right may be sponsored member or has appointed a voting service in hard copy or electronic form, must identify the matter to provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting be included in the business, must be accompanied by a service provider takes such action as shall be necessary statement setting out the grounds for the request, must be to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the authenticated by the person s making it and must be CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, received by the Company not later than six weeks before CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST the date of the Annual General Meeting.
sponsor or voting service provider are referred in particular 11 Biographical details of the directors are shown on page 44 to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning of the Annual Report & Accounts.
practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
12 As at 8 June 2012 being the latest practicable day prior The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy to publication of the notice of the meeting, the issued Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation share capital of the Company is 256,225,000 Ordinary 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. shares of 25p each and 124,222,000 Sigma shares of 7 Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask 12.5p each.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any the Company at at 8 June 2012 is 380,447,000. such question relating to the business being dealt with at Shareholders are reminded that on a poll vote, the total the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to number of votes cast is calculated according to the NAV do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the per Ordinary share and the NAV per Sigma share.
meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential 13 The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the information, b the answer has already been given on a Management Engagement Committee and the Letters of website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is Appointment for directors will be available for inspection undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the order of the meeting that the question be answered.
