THE GROUP COMPANY Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of to allot shares and grant rights pursuant to any such offers TR Property Investment Trust plc will be held at 12 noon on or agreements as if this authority had not expired.
Tuesday 24 July 2012 at the Royal Automobile Club, 89 91 Pall 14 THAT Mall, London SW1Y 5HS for the purpose of transacting the following business: a subject to the passing of Resolution 13 set out above the directors be empowered pursuant to Section 570 To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions, and Section 573 of the Act to allot equity securities as of which Resolutions 1 to 13 will be proposed as Ordinary defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to Resolutions and Resolutions 14 and 15 shall be proposed as the authority conferred by Resolution 13 above and or Special Resolutions.
to sell shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply 1 To receive the Report of the Directors and the Audited to any such allotment, provided that this power shall Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2012. be limited to: 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year i the allotment of equity securities and sale of ended 31 March 2012. treasury shares for cash in connection with an offer of, or invitation to apply for, equity securities: 3 To declare a final dividend of 4.20 pence per Ordinary share.
aa to shareholders in proportion as nearly as 4 To declare a final dividend of 1.65 pence per Sigma share.
may be practicable to their existing holdings: and 5 To elect Simon Marrison as a director.
bb to holders of other equity securities, as 6 To elect David Watson as a director.
required by the rights of those securities, or as 7 To re-elect Hugh Seaborn as a director.
the Board otherwise considers necessary, 8 To re-elect Paul Spencer as a director.
and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it 9 To re-elect Caroline Burton as a director.
considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, 10 To re-elect Peter Salsbury as a director.
legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and 11 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Company.
12 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration ii in the case of the authority granted under of the auditors.
Resolution 13 and or in the case of any sale of treasury shares for cash, to the allotment 13 THAT the directors be generally and unconditionally otherwise than under paragraph i above of authorised pursuant to and in accordance to Section 551 of equity securities or sale of treasury shares up to a the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the nominal amount of 3,979,200 being powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and approximately 5% of the total issued share capital to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security of the Company as at the latest practicable date into, shares in the Company up to a nominal value of prior to publication of the notice of meeting, 26,262,720 being approximately 33% of the total issued share capital of the Company as at the latest practicable b the power given by this resolution shall expire upon date prior to publication of the notice of the meeting the expiry of the authority conferred by Resolution 13 provided that this authority shall expire at the date of the above, save that the Company shall be entitled to next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, make offers or agreements before the expiry of such at the close of business on 24 October 2013, save that power which would or might require equity securities the Company shall be entitled to make offers or to be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall agreements before the expiry of this authority which would be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be such offer or agreement as if the power conferred granted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled hereby had not expired.
