THE GROUP COMPANY Investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc Market Purchases The shares of TR Property Investment Trust plc are listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Investors may purchase shares through their stockbroker, bank or other financial intermediary.
Saving Scheme and ISA A number of banks and wealth management organisations provide Savings Schemes and ISAs through which UK clients can invest in TR Property Investment Trust.
One such provider is Alliance Trust Savings.
Alliance Trust provide and administer a range of self-select investment plans, including tax-advantaged ISAs and SIPPs Self-Invested Pension Plans and also Investment Plans and First Steps, an Investment Plan for Children.
For more information Alliance Trust can be contacted on 01382 573 737, or visit www.
co. uk Investors in TR Property through the ATS Investment Plan and ISA receive all shareholder communications.
A voting instruction form is provided to facilitate voting at general meetings of the Company.
Please remember that the value of your investments and any income from them may go down as well as up.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
You may not get back the amount that you invest.
If you are in any doubt as to the suitability of a plan or any investment available within a plan, please take professional advice.
Saving Schemes and ISAs transferred from BNP Paribas During the year BNP Paribas informed us that they were closing down the part of their business which operated Savings Schemes and ISAs.
Investors were given the choice of transferring their schemes to Alliance Trust Savings ATS or a provider of their own choice or to close their accounts and sell the holdings.
For investors who elected to transfer their plans to ATS, any questions regarding their account should be directed to ATS on 01382 573 737.
For investors who did not respond to the letters from BNP Paribas, their accounts have automatically been transferred to ATS, please contact ATS on the above number with any questions.
Investors who opted to sell their shares or move to another account provider may contact BNP with any questions by post at the following address: BNP Paribas Securities Services, Block C, Western House, Lynch Wood Business Park, Peterborough PE2 6BP TR Property Investment Trust 99 TR Property Investment Trust plc is managed by This document is printed on Revive Silk of which 75% of the furnish is made from 100% fide-inked post consumer waste.
The remaining 25% being mill broke and virgin fibres.
This paper is bleached using a combination of Totally Chlorine Free TCF and Elemental Chlorine Free ECF.
The manufacturing mill is accredited with the ISO 14001 standard for environmental management.
