THE GROUP COMPANY Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union and as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group and Company financial statements are expressed in Sterling, which is their functional and presentational currency.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
a Basis of consolidation The Group accounts consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries to 31 March 2012.
Companies, other than subsidiaries, in which the Group has an investment representing 20% or more of the voting rights and over which it exerts significant influence, are treated as associates.
The Group accounts include the appropriate share of the results and reserves of these companies based on the latest available accounts.
Other companies, in which the Group has an investment representing 20% or more of the voting rights but where the directors consider that the Group does not exert significant influence, are not treated as associates and are accounted for as investments.
b Income Dividends and Property Income Distributions PIDs receivable on equity shares are treated as revenue for the year on an exdividend basis.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before the year end are treated as revenue for the year.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
Where the Group has elected to receive these dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Differences between the value of shares received and the cash dividend foregone are recognised in the capital returns of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The fixed returns on debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on each such security.
Interest receivable from cash and short term deposits is accrued to the end of the year.
c Expenses All expenses and finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis.
An analysis of retained earnings broken down into revenue and capital items is given in note 17.
In arriving at this breakdown, expenses have been presented as revenue items except as follows: expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment: expenses are presented as capital where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
One third of the management fees is deemed to relate to the administration of the Company and charged to revenue.
The remainder are allocated 50% to revenue return and 50% to capital return to reflect the Boards expectations of long term investment returns.
The overall result is that two thirds of management fees are charged to revenue and one third to capital.
All performance fees are charged to capital return.
Expenses are allocated between the share classes as follows: management fees are charged separately to each share class: administration costs incurred specifically by a single share class are charged to that class: other corporate expenses are allocated to the share class in proportion to the share classes relative net asset values at the end of the previous accounting period.
d Finance costs The finance cost in respect of capital instruments other than equity shares is calculated so as to give a constant rate of return on the outstanding balance.
One half of the finance costs is charged to capital return.
Finance costs are allocated to the share class utilising the capital instrument.
TR Property Investment Trust 67 THE GROUP COMPANY Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued e Taxation Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The tax effect of different items of expenditure is allocated between capital and revenue for the Ordinary shares and the Sigma shares using the Groups effective rate of tax for the year.
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred taxation is provided using the liability method on all timing differences, calculated at the rate at which it is anticipated the timing differences will reverse.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only when, on the basis of available evidence, it is more likely than not that there will be taxable profits in the future against which the deferred tax asset can be offset.
The brought forward tax losses held within TR Property Investment Trust plc prior to the introduction of the new Sigma share class have been split between the Ordinary shares and the Sigma shares based on the proportion of Ordinary shares converted to Sigma shares on 24 July 2007 18.9943%.
Tax losses will in the future only be transferred from one share class to another to the extent that there are insufficient current year losses available to the share class claiming the losses to cover the taxable income arising.
The Company is an investment trust under s. 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and, as such, is not liable for tax on capital gains.
Capital gains arising in subsidiary companies are subject to capital gains tax.
f Investment property Investment property Investment property is measured initially at cost including transaction costs.
Transaction costs include transfer taxes, professional fees for legal services and initial leasing commissions to bring the property to the condition necessary for it to be capable of operating.
The carrying amount also includes the cost of replacing part of an existing investment property at the time that cost is incurred if the recognition criteria are met.
The purchase and sale of properties is recognised to be effected on the date unconditional contracts are exchanged.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investment property is stated at fair value.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values are included in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year in which they arise.
Investment property is derecognised when it has been disposed of or permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is expected from its disposal.
Any gains or losses on the retirement or disposal of investment property are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year of retirement or disposal.
Gains or losses on the disposal of investment property are determined as the difference between net disposal proceeds and the carrying value of the asset in the previous full period financial statements.
Revaluation of Investment Properties The Group carries its investment properties at fair value market value revalued twice a year, with changes in fair values being recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Group engaged Drivers Jonas Deloitte as independent valuation specialists to determine market value as at 31 March 2012.
Valuations of Investment Properties Determination of the market value of investment properties has been prepared on the basis defined by the RICS Valuation Standards 6th Edition The Red Book as follows: The estimated amount for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
68 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued The valuation takes into account future cash flow from assets such as lettings, tenants profiles, future revenue streams, capital values of fixtures and fittings, plant and machinery, any environmental matters and the overall repair and condition of the property and discount rates applicable to those assets.
These assumptions are based on local market conditions existing at the balance sheet date.
In arriving at their estimates of market values as at 31 March 2012, the valuers have used their market knowledge and professional judgement and have not only relied solely on historical transactional comparables.
Rental income Rental income receivable under operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, except for contingent rental income which is recognised when it arises.
Incentives for lessees to enter into lease agreements are spread evenly over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
The lease term is the non-cancellable period of the lease together with any further term for which the tenant has the option to continue the lease, where, at the inception of the lease, the directors are reasonably certain that the tenant will exercise that option.
Premiums received to terminate or extend leases are recognised in the capital account of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income when they arise.
Service charges and expenses recoverable from tenants Income arising from expenses recharged to tenants is recognised in the period in which the expense can be contractually recovered.
Service charges and other such receipts are included gross of the related costs in revenue as the directors consider that the Group acts as principal in this respect.
g Investments When a purchase or sale is made under contract, the terms of which require delivery within the timeframe of the relevant market, the investments concerned are recognised or derecognised on the trade date.
All the Groups investments are defined under IFRS as investments designated as fair value through profit or loss but are also described in these financial statements as investments held at fair value.
All investments are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value, and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which, for quoted investments, is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Unquoted investments or investments for which there is only an inactive market are held at fair value which is based on valuations made by the directors in accordance with IPEVCA guidelines and using current market prices, trading conditions and the general economic climate.
In its financial statements the Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at fair value, being the net asset value of each subsidiary.
Changes in the fair value are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
On disposal, realised gains and losses are also recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Derivatives Derivatives are held at fair value based either on traded prices or directors fair valuation to the extent that traded prices are unavailable.
Gains and losses on derivative transactions are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
They are recognised as capital and are shown in the capital column of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income if they are of a capital nature and are recognised as revenue and shown in the revenue column of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income if they are of a revenue nature.
To the extent that any gains or losses are of a mixed revenue and capital nature, they are apportioned between revenue and capital accordingly.
CFDs are synthetic equities and are valued by reference to the investments underlying market values.
TR Property Investment Trust 69 THE GROUP COMPANY Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued The sources of the returns under the derivative contract e. g. notional dividends, financing costs, interest returns and capital changes are allocated to the revenue and capital accounts in alignment with the nature of the underlying source of income and in accordance with the guidance given in the AIC SORP.
Notional dividend income or expenses arising on long or short positions are apportioned wholly to the revenue account.
Notional interest income on short positions is allocated wholly to the revenue account.
Notional interest expense on long positions is apportioned between revenue and capital in accordance with the Boards long term expected returns of the Company currently determined to be 50% to the revenue account and 50% to capital reserves.
Changes in value relating to underlying price movements of securities in relation to CFD exposures are allocated wholly to capital reserves.
h Non-current liabilities All loans and debentures are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration received, less issue costs where applicable.
After initial recognition, all interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on settlement.
The costs of arranging any interestbearing loans are capitalised and amortised over the life of the loan on an effective interest rate basis.
i Foreign currency translation Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into Sterling at the rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits.
k Adoption of new and revised Standards Standards and Interpretations effective in the current period The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous consolidated financial statements except as follows.
The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as of 1 April 2011: IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, effective 1 January 2011: IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of Rights Issues, effective 1 February 2010: IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, effective 1 July 2010: Improvements to IFRSs Issued May 2010, effective 1 January 2011: When the adoption of the standard or interpretation is deemed to have an impact on the consolidated financial statements or the performance of the Group, its impact is described below: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures Amended The amendment emphasises the interaction between quantitative and qualitative disclosures and the nature and extent of risks associated with financial instruments.
Early adoption of standards and interpretations The standards issued before the reporting date that become effective after 31 March 2012 will not have a material effect on equity or profit for the subsequent period.
The Group has not early adopted any new International Financial Reporting Standard or Interpretation.
70 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the Group financial statements are listed below: IAS 1 Financial Statement Presentation Presentation of items of Other Comprehensive Income, effective 1 July 2012 The amendments to IAS 1 change the grouping of items presented in OCI.
Items that could be reclassified or recycled to profit or loss at a future point in time would be presented separately from items that will never be reclassified.
The amendment will affect presentation only and has no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
IAS 12 Income Taxes Recovery of Underlying Assets, effective 1 January 2012 The amendment clarified the determination of deferred tax on investment property measured at fair value.
The amendment introduces a rebuttable presumption that deferred tax on investment property measured using the fair value model in IAS 40 should be determined on the basis that its carrying amount will be recovered through sale.
Further, it introduces the requirement that deferred tax on depreciable assets that are measured using the revaluation model in IAS 16 should always be measured on a sale basis.
The Group is currently assessing the full impact of the amendments.
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements, effective 1 January 2013 As a consequence of the new IFRS 10 and IFRS 12, what remains in IAS 27 is limited to accounting for subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates in separate financial statements.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, effective 1 January 2013 As a consequence of the new IFRS 11 and IFRS 12, IAS 28 has been renamed IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures and describes the application of the equity method to investments in joint ventures in addition to associates.
This amendment is not expected to have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Trust as it does not have any investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Enhanced Derecognition Disclosure Requirements, effective 1 July 2011 The amendment requires additional disclosure about financial assets that have been transferred but not derecognised to enable the user of the Groups financial statements to understand the relationship with those assets that have not been derecognised and their associated liabilities.
In addition, the amendment requires disclosures about continuing involvement in derecognised assets to enable the user to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, the entitys continuing involvement in those derecognised assets.
The amendment affects disclosure only and has no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement, effective 1 January 2013 IFRS 9 as issued reflects the first phase of the IASBs work on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification and measurement of financial assets as defined in IAS 39.
In subsequent phases, the IASB will address classification and measurement of financial liabilities, hedge accounting and derecognition.
The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the classification and measurement of the Groups financial assets.
The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, effective 1 January 2013 IFRS 10 replaces the portion of lAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that address the accounting for consolidated financial statements.
It also includes the issues raised in SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
The changes introduced by IFRS 10 will require management to exercise significant judgment to determine which entities are controlled and therefore are required to be consolidated by a parent, compared with the requirements that were in IAS 27.
The Group is currently assessing the full impact of this standard.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, effective 1 January 2013 IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC 13 Jointly-controlled Entities Non-monetary Contributions by Venturers.
IFRS 11 removes the option to account for jointly controlled entities JCEs using proportionate consolidation.
Instead, JCEs that meet the definition of a joint venture must be accounted for using the equity method.
JCEs under current IAS 31 that will be classified as joint ventures under IFRS 11 will transition from proportionate consolidation to the equity method by aggregating the carrying values previously recorded, testing that amount for impairment and then using that amount as deemed cost for applying the equity method going forward.
The application of this new standard will not impact the financial position of the Group.
