THE GROUP COMPANY Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions 1, 2, 3 and 4: Accounts, Directors aggregate nominal amount of 3,979,200 representing a Remuneration Report and Dividends maximum of 15,916,800 Ordinary shares or a maximum of These are the resolutions which deal with the presentation of the 31,833,600 Sigma shares.
This aggregate nominal amount audited accounts, the approval of the Directors Remuneration represents approximately 5% of the total issued share capital of Report and the declaration of the final dividends.
The vote to the Company as at 8 June 2012, the latest practicable date prior approve the remuneration report is advisory only and will not to publication of this Notice.
In respect of this aggregate nominal require the Company to alter any arrangements detailed in the amount, the directors confirm their intention to follow the report should the resolution not be passed.
provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling 3-year Resolutions 5 and 6: Election of directors period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% Resolutions 5 and 6 deal with the election of Simon Marrison and should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
Under the Articles of Association, The directors would intend not to exercise more than two-thirds Simon Marrison and David Watson are required to submit 2,652,800 of the aggregate nominal amount in respect of themselves for election at the first AGM after their appointment: Ordinary shares and not to exercise more than one-third both hereby offer themselves for election.
1,326,400 of the aggregate nominal amount in respect of Sigma shares.
Resolutions 7, 8, 9 and 10: Re-election of directors These resolutions deal with the re-election of Hugh Seaborn, Paul The authority will expire at the earlier of close of business on Spencer, Caroline Burton and Peter Salsbury.
In accordance with 24 October 2013 and the conclusion of the annual general the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors will retire on an meeting of the Company held in 2013. annual basis and have confirmed that they will offer themselves for Resolution 15: Authority to make Market Purchases of the re-election.
Companys Ordinary and Sigma shares Resolutions 11 and 12: Auditors At the AGM held on 26 July 2011, a special resolution was These deal with the re-appointment of the auditors, Ernst & Young proposed and passed, giving the directors authority, until the LLP, and the authorisation for the directors to determine their conclusion of the AGM in 2012, to make market purchases of the remuneration.
Companys own issued Ordinary and Sigma shares up to a maximum of 14.99% of the issued share capital.
Resolution 13: Allotment of share capital Our Board considers it appropriate that an authority be granted to Your Board is proposing that they should be given renewed allot shares in the capital of the Company up to a maximum authority to purchase Ordinary and Sigma shares in the market.
nominal amount of 26,262,720 representing approximately 33% Your Board believes that to make such purchases in the market at of the Companys issued share capital as at 8 June 2012, being appropriate times and prices is a suitable method of enhancing the latest practical date prior to publication.
As at the date of this shareholder value.
The Company would, within guidelines set from notice the Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
The time to time by the Board, make either a single purchase or a directors have no present intention of exercising this authority and series of purchases, when market conditions are suitable, with the would only expect to use the authority if shares could be issued at, aim of maximising the benefits to shareholders.
or at a premium to, the NAV per share of the relevant share class.
Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing Net Asset If the directors were to exercise this authority, they would intend to Value per share, this will enhance the Net Asset Value for the exercise not more than two-thirds 17,508,480 of the maximum remaining shareholders.
It is therefore intended that purchases nominal amount in respect of Ordinary shares and not more than would only be made at prices below Net Asset Value.
Your Board one-third 8,754,240 of the maximum nominal amount in considers that it will be most advantageous to shareholders for the respect of Sigma shares.
Company to be able to make such purchases as and when it Resolution 14: Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights considers the timing to be favourable and therefore does not This resolution would give the directors the authority to allot shares propose to set a timetable for making any such purchases.
or sell any shares which the Company elects to hold in treasury The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in Regulations 2003 the Regulations came into force on proportion to their existing shareholdings.
The Regulations enable companies in the This authority would be limited to allotments or sales in United Kingdom to hold in treasury any of their own shares they connection with pre-emptive offers and offers to holders of other have purchased with a view to possible resale at a future date, equity securities if required by the rights of those shares or as the rather than cancelling them.
If the Company does re-purchase any board otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise up to an of its shares, the directors do not currently intend to hold any of 94 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting continued the shares re-purchased in treasury.
The shares so re-purchased will continue to be cancelled.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority limit the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for any such share.
It shall not be more than the higher of: i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary share if an Ordinary share is being purchased or of a Sigma share if a Sigma share is being purchased as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy shares concerned: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary share or Sigma share in the Company on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price to be paid will be 25p per Ordinary share and 12.5p per Sigma share being the nominal values.
The Listing Rules also limit a listed company to purchases of shares representing up to 15% of its issued share capital in the market pursuant to a general authority such as this.
For this reason, the Company is limiting its authority to make such purchases to 14.99% of the Companys Ordinary and Sigma shares in issue at the date of the AGM: this is equivalent to 38,408,128 Ordinary shares of 25p each nominal value 9,602,032 and 18,620,878 Sigma shares of 12.5p each nominal value 2,327,610 at 8 June 2012, the date of the Notice of the AGM.
The authority will last until the AGM of the Company to be held in 2013 or at any other general meeting.
