THE GROUP COMPANY Notes to the Financial Statements continued 11.4 Liquidity risk Unquoted investments in the portfolio are subject to liquidity risk.
The Group held one unquoted investment throughout the financial year see 11.6 below.
In certain market conditions, the liquidity of direct property investments may be reduced.
At 31 March 2012, 9% of the Groups investment portfolio was held in direct property investments.
At 31 March 2012, 91% of the Groups investment portfolio is held in listed securities which are predominantly readily realisable.
Management of the risk The Manager sets guidelines for the maximum exposure of the portfolio to unquoted and direct property investments.
These are set out in the Investment Policies on pages 2 and 3.
All unquoted investments and direct property investments with a value over 1 million must be approved by the Board for purchase.
11.5 Credit risk The failure of a counterparty to a transaction to discharge its obligations under that transaction could result in the Group suffering a loss.
Management of the risk Investment transactions are carried out with a number of brokers, whose credit standing is reviewed periodically by the Manager, and limits are set on the amount that may be due from any one broker.
Cash at bank is only held with banks with high quality external credit ratings.
11.6 Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities Except for the debenture loans which are measured at amortised cost, the fair values of the financial assets and financial liabilities are either carried in the balance sheet at their fair value investments or the balance sheet amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value debtors, creditors, cash at bank and bank overdrafts, accruals and prepayments.
The fair values of the listed investments are derived from the bid price or last traded price at which the securities are quoted on the London Stock Exchange and other recognised exchanges.
The fair values of Contracts For Difference are based on the underlying listed investment value as set out above and the amount due from or to the counterparty under the contract is recorded as an asset or liability accordingly.
The fair values of the properties are derived from an open market Red Book valuation of the properties on the Balance Sheet date by an independent firm of valuers Drivers Jonas Deloitte.
There was one unquoted investment at the Balance Sheet date, Nanette Real Estate, with a value of 88,000 in the Ordinary Share Class and 62,000 in the Sigma Share Class.
The amounts of change in fair value for such investments recognised in the profit or loss for the year was a loss of 83,626,000 2011: gain of 71,494,000.
11.7 Capital management policies and procedures The Groups capital management objectives are: to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern: and to maximise the total return to its equity shareholders through an appropriate balance of equity capital and debt.
The equity capital of the Group at 31 March 2012 consisted of called up share capital, share premium, capital redemption and revenue reserves totalling 588,245,000 2011: 670,443,000.
The Group does not regard the debenture and loans as permanent capital.
