Witan Investment Trust plc Marketing Review 2012 After many miles of column inches Expense Ratio and unlike openWitans marketing devoted to the subject, the RDR ended funds it has the ability to gear programme aims to brought in changes to the and to build up dividend reserves, stimulate interest in qualification requirements for which can be used to sustain dividend the Trust's shares Financial Advisers as well as ending payments during periods of falling and thereby product provider trail commissions market dividends.
One should improve liquidity, on future sales.
It is anticipated that remember that although gearing will enabling the removal of commission will level tend to enhance returns in a rising shareholders to buy the playing field between openmarket, because of the Trusts James Frost, Marketing Director and sell shares at a ended funds whose managers were increased exposure to the market, by price reflecting the previously able to pay commissions the same token it will tend to increase net asset growth performance of the to intermediaries and closed-ended losses triggered by a falling market.
Throughout the year we have investment companies which were Further details of our investment used a variety of marketing not permitted to make such policy are set out in the Business approaches to communicate with payments.
The RDR makes Review on pages 7 to 17 of this report.
private investors who invest through conditions more favourable for Witan Investment Services savings In 2013 we will be focusing more of private investors to choose freely schemes, online brokers and via the our attention on helping to inform between investment trusts and other main share register as well as financial advisers and their clients funds which could lead to greater professional investors such as about Witan, to enable them to demand for Witans shares.
discretionary managers and private make a considered decision whether client brokers who invest on behalf of Who owns Witan?
Witan is a fund to invest in our shares.
which is predominantly owned by overcrowded nature of the financial individual investors or people acting marketplace means that there is Despite the gains posted by equities on their behalf.
The characteristics little to be gained through engaging in 2012, the aftermath of the volatile which they have sought should also in expensive and for the most part conditions in 2011 led to reduced be relevant to those financial advisers unwanted advertising.
What will set demand for equity funds during the who have not invested significantly in Witan apart are the credentials year from private investors.
Witan offers listed above, our investment published by the Investment an actively-managed portfolio which performance and a clearly defined Management Association reveal that is diversified by manager, geographic investment approach.
Our strategy retail sales of equity funds in 2012 region, business sector and at the is therefore to engage with financial were down 24% when compared individual company level.
It has advisers by providing regular, with retail sales in 2011.
Given this increased its dividend every year since informative and imaginative environment we were pleased to see 1974, a 38-year run.
Share buy-backs website content about Witan and that demand for Witans shares via have also been regularly used to add our investment philosophy.
We our own savings schemes was to the net asset value and help to have already launched a dedicated marginally up year-on-year, although stabilise the discount, with the adviser centre on our website, there was a reduction in account objective of achieving a sustainable which went live in late December numbers.
This followed a change to discount of 10% or narrower.
Witan 2012, and we will be adding further the Jump Terms & Conditions which has a simple capital structure and, content throughout 2013. raised account fees, in order to bring with a market capitalisation of 956m the costs and revenues from at the end of 2012, it is one of the Another likely impact of the RDR is operating the savings schemes into that the number of self-directed more readily tradable investment balance.
Demand for Witan from trusts on the UK stock market.
Witan investors making their own private investors buying via online investment decisions is likely to is also the only wholly multi-managed brokers has remained strong, and in global investment trust.
This is a group that is the later stages of the year there was multi-manager funds have for many already familiar with Witan, both increased demand from discretionary through our own savings schemes years been popular with financial fund managers as markets performed advisers because this approach helps Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings well, and Witan outperformed.
and externally from investors buying smooth out the volatility which can be associated with a single manager.
Witan via online stockbrokers and 2013 As well as the inherent benefits of execution-only platforms.
We expect After what felt like a longer build-up multi-manager, Witan also has a interest from self-directed investors to than the Olympics, the Retail competitive ongoing charges figure remain strong in 2013.
Discretionary Distribution Review RDR came into effect on 31 December 2012. previously known as the Total managers and private client brokers, 70 Annual Report 2012 who invest on behalf of their clients, investment with Witan Wisdom ISA Jump Savings Plan Unlike the are also set to benefit from the RDR as is 2,000, with the regular savings Junior ISA or Child Trust Fund the increasing numbers of financial minimum being 100 per month.
Jump Savings Plan is not tax efficient, advisers are likely to outsource Investors can also transfer existing however it offers greater flexibility in investment management to them.
ISAs to Witan Wisdom while terms of the limits, access and retaining their tax efficient wrapper control of the investment, and can 2013 promises to be a very interesting during and after transfer.
also be opened by grandparents, year for the Financial Services relatives and other family friends.
Industry, as it tries to meet investors The Witan Wisdom Share Plan is You can open a Jump Savings Plan need for real returns at a time when our straightforward, low-cost savings with a lump sum investment of just the yields on traditionally safe scheme.
The minimum lump sum 250 or 50 per month or quarter.
investments such as deposit accounts investment is 500, and the and government bonds are less than minimum regular contribution is n. b.
With a flat rate 30 account fee inflation.
RDR is likely to mean 50 per month or quarter.
There is for Jump, the initial cost is high for increased interest in the Investment no maximum.
Accounts can also be the minimum subscription but will Trust Sector, and for Witan this has held jointly, or designated to a child.
reduce as a percentage when the the potential to lead to increased account is added to.
Jump Savings for children demand for the Trusts shares.
Jump gives parents, grandparents and Brochures and applications for all of Investors are reminded that the other adults the chance to invest in our products are available by calling value of investments and the Witan on behalf of a child.
This 0800 082 81 80 or online via income from them may go down flexible savings plan has a minimum www.
If you would prefer as well as up and investors may lump sum investment set at 250 to write to request further not get back the amount originally and regular contributions can be information, the address details can invested.
For a breakdown of made from as little as 50 per month be found on page 72.
Witans performance please see or quarter.
Jump is available in three page 2 of this report.
different wrappers: Witan Investment Trust plc is an equity investment.
Investors are How to Invest Junior ISA Is a tax efficient wrapper reminded that past performance is There is a variety of ways to invest in available to children born before not a guide to future performance Witan Investment Trust plc.
Naturally, 1 September 2002, born on or after and the value of investments and Witans shares can be traded through 3 January 2012, or those who did not the income from them may go any UK stockbroker.
Advisers who qualify for a Child Trust Fund.
The down as well as up and investors wish to purchase Witan for their account can only be opened by the may not get back the amount client can also do so via a growing parent though others can add to it.
Please note that number of platforms that offer currently has an annual subscription tax assumptions may change if the investment trusts including Ascentric, limit of 3,600 for the 2012 13 tax Alliance Trust Savings, Nucleus, law changes, and the value of tax year, which will increase to 3,720 Raymond James, Seven IM and relief if any will depend upon for the 2013 14 tax year.
Witan is also available for your individual circumstances.
open a Jump Junior ISA with a lump investment through the two savings Investors should consult their own sum investment of just 250 or 50 schemes managed by Witan tax advisers in order to understand per month or quarter.
Investment Services Witan Wisdom any applicable tax consequences.
Issued and approved by Witan Jump Child Trust Fund Like the Investment Services Limited.
Witan Junior ISA, the Child Trust Fund Witan Wisdom Investment Services Limited of 14 CTF is a tax efficient savings vehicle Witan Wisdom offers two different Queen Annes Gate, London SW1H with an annual limit of 3,600 each savings wrappers: 9AA is registered in England year measured by the childs number 5272533.
Witan birthday, which will increase to The Witan Wisdom ISA is a stocks Investment Services provides 3,720 from 6 April 2013.
Each and shares ISA that enables investors child born in the UK from investment products and services to buy Witan shares within a tax and is authorised and regulated by 1 September 2002 and up to and efficient wrapper.
Investors have an including 2 January 2012 was eligible the Financial Services Authority.
annual ISA allowance of up to 11,280 for the 2012 13 tax year, for a CTF.
You can transfer existing We may record telephone calls for CTFs to Jump subject to a minimum our mutual protection and to rising to 11,520 for the 2013 14 tax year.
The minimum lump sum transfer value of 1,000. improve customer service.
