Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 Standards not affecting the reported results nor 1.
General Information the financial position Centamin plc the Company is a listed public company, The following new and revised Standards and incorporated in Jersey and through subsidiaries Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
operating in Egypt, Ethiopia, United Kingdom and Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the Australia.
It is the parent company of the Group, amounts reported in these financial statements but, with comprising the Company and its subsidiaries.
the exception of the amendment to IFRS 1, may impact Registered Ofce Principal Place of Business the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
Centamin plc 2 Mulcaster Street IFRS 7 The amendments introduce Ogier House, St Helier amended additional disclosures, designed The Esplanade Jersey JE2 3NJ Disclosures to allow users of financial St Helier, Transfers of statements to improve their Jersey JE4 9WG Financial Assets understanding of transfer The nature of the Groups operations and its principal transactions of financial assets, activities are set out in the directors report on pages including understanding the 58 to 60 and the operating review on pages 17 to 21. possible effects of any risks that may remain with the entity that transferred the assets.
Adoption of new and revised The amendments also require accounting standards additional disclosures if a In the current year, the following new and revised disproportionate amount of transfer Standards and Interpretations have been adopted transactions are undertaken around and have affected the amounts reported in these the end of a reporting period.
IAS 12 The amendment provides an Standards affecting the financial statements amended assumption that recovery of IFRIC 20 provides clarity on how IFRIC 20 Deferred Tax: the carrying amount of an asset to account for and measure the Stripping Costs Recovery of measured using the fair value model removal of mine waste materials in the Production Underlying in IAS 40 Investment Property will, which provide access to mineral Phase of a Assets normally, be through sale.
Surface Mine IFRS 1 The amendment replaces Refer to Changes in Accounting amended references to a xed date with the Policy in Note 3 for further Severe date of transition to IFRSs and information.
Hyperination provides guidance on how an entity and Removal should resume presenting financial of Fixed Dates statements in accordance with for First-time IFRSs after a period when the entity Adopters was unable to comply with IFRSs because its functional currency was subject to sever hyperination.
IAS 19 revised The amendments provide revised Employee requirements for pensions and Benets other post-retirement benets, termination benets and other changes.
IAS 1 amended The amendment revises the way Presentation of other comprehensive income is Items of Other presented.
Comprehensive Income 96 96 An An nn uu aa ll R R ee pp oo rr tt 2 2 00 11 22 At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, 3.
Summary Of Significant the following Standards and Interpretations which have Accounting Policies not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not Basis of preparation yet been adopted by the EU : The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting IFRS 1 amended Government Loans Standards IFRSs adopted by the European Union IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Offsetting EU IFRS and therefore the Group financial statements Financial Assets and Financial comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
Liabilities There are no changes in these accounting policies for IFRS 9 Financial Instruments the year ended 31 December 2012 except as disclosed IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial in Note 3 below Changes in accounting policy.
Statements Changes in accounting policy IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests Surface Mine.
in Other Entities The Group changed its accounting policy on stripping IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement costs in the production phase of a surface mine effective IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2012.
IFRIC 20 provides clarity on how to IAS 28 revised Inv estments in Associates account for and measure the removal of mine waste and Joint Ventures 2011 materials which provide access to mineral ore deposits.
IAS 32 revised Offsetting Financial Assets This waste removal activity is known as stripping.
There and Financial Liabilities can be two benets accruing to the entity from the stripping activity: Improvements to Annual Improvements IFRSs 2009 - 2011 2009 - 2011 Cycle s usable ore that can be used to produce inventory: and s improved access to further quantities of material that The directors do not expect that the adoption of the will be mined in future periods.
standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods, IFRIC 20 considers when and how to account separately except as follows: for these two benets arising from the stripping activity, as well as how to measure these benets both initially s IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and and subsequently.
disclosures of Financial Instruments: s IFRS 11 will affect joint venture accounting, however The costs of stripping activity to be accounted for in will have no impact on the accounting of the accordance with the principles of IAS 2 Inventories to Concession Agreement: the extent that the benefit from the stripping activity is realised in the form of inventory produced.
s IFRS 12 will impact the disclosure of interests the Group has in other entities: The costs of stripping activity which provides a benefit s IFRS 13 will impact the measurement of fair value in the form of improved access to ore is recognised as a for certain assets and liabilities as well as the non-current stripping activity asset where the following associated disclosures.
criteria are met: Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to i. it is probable that the future economic benefit provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these improved access to the ore body associated with standards until a detailed review has been completed.
the stripping activity will ow to the entity: ii.
the entity can identify the component of the ore body for which access has been improved: and iii.
the costs relating to the stripping activity associated with that component can be measured reliably.
97 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 depreciation or amortisation and impairment losses.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT A stripping activity asset is depreciated or amortised ACCOUNTING POLICIES on a systematic basis, over the expected useful life of CONTINUED the identied component of the ore body that becomes When the costs of the stripping activity asset and the more accessible as a result of the stripping activity.
inventory produced are not separately identiable, The stripping activity asset is depreciated using a units production stripping costs are allocated between the of production method based on the total ounces to be inventory produced and the stripping activity asset by produced over the life of the component of the ore body.
using an allocation basis that is based on a relevant IFRIC 20 includes transitional provisions which permit production measure.
the Group to reclassify any predecessor stripping asset A stripping activity asset is accounted for as an addition at the start of the earliest period presented as part of the to, or as an enhancement of, an existing asset and existing asset to which the stripping activity is related, classied as tangible or intangible according to the which will be 1 January 2011. nature of the existing asset of which it forms part.
In line with IFRIC 20, our 2012 results now include a A stripping activity asset is initially measured at cost and restatement of the 2011 year as follows: subsequently carried at cost or its revalued amount less Year ended 31 December 2011 Impact of IFRIC 20 US$000 Increase in profit for the period and Total comprehensive income 12,049 Increase in Net Assets 12,049 Increase in basic earnings per share cents per share 1.11 Increase in fully diluted earnings per share cents per share 1.11 The adoption of IFRIC 20 had no impact on the Groups retained earnings as at 1 January 2011.
These financial statements are denominated in United States Dollars, which is the functional currency of Centamin plc.
All companies in the Group use the United States Dollar as their functional currency except for Sheba Exploration UK plc and Sheba Exploration Limited that use Great British Pound.
All financial information presented in United States Dollars has been rounded to the nearest thousand dollars, unless otherwise stated.
These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of historical cost, except for the revaluation of certain non-current assets and financial instruments.
Cost is based on the fair values of the consideration given in exchange for assets.
98 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 As discussed in Note 20, during the year the operation Principles of consolidation of the mine was affected by two legal actions.
The first of The consolidated financial statements are prepared these followed from a decision taken by EGPC to charge by combining the financial statements of all the international, not local subsidised prices for the supply entities that comprise the consolidated entity, being of Diesel Fuel Oil, and the second arose as a result of the company the parent entity and its subsidiaries judgment of an Administrative Court of first instance as dened in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate in relation to, amongst other matters, the Companys Financial Statements.
Consistent accounting policies 2 160km exploitation lease.
In relation to the first decision, are employed in the preparation and presentation of the the Company remains confident that in the event that it is consolidated financial statements.
required to continue to pay international prices, the mine The consolidated financial statements include the at Sukari will remain commercially viable.
Similarly, the information and results of each subsidiary from the date Company remains confident that the appeal it has lodged on which the company obtains control and until such in relation to the decision of the Administrative Court will time as the company ceases to control such entity.
ultimately be successful, although final resolution of it Control is achieved where the Company has the power to may take some time.
On 20 March 2013 the Supreme govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so Administrative Court upheld the Companys application as to obtain benets from its activities.
to suspend the decision until the merits of the Companys appeal are considered and ruled on, thus In preparing the consolidated financial statements, all providing assurance that normal operations would be intercompany balances and transactions, and unrealised able to continue during this process.
profits arising within the consolidated entity are eliminated in full.
In the unlikely event that the Group is unsuccessful Sukari Gold Mines SGM is jointly controlled by in either or both of its legal actions, and that the PGM and EMRA on a 50% equal basis.
For accounting operating activities are restricted to a reduced area, purposes, SGM is wholly consolidated within the it is the Directors belief that the Group will be able Centamin Group of companies reecting the substance to continue as going concern.
and economic reality of the Concession Agreement The directors have a reasonable expectation that see Note 23.
Pursuant to the Concession Agreement, the Group will have adequate resources to continue PGM solely funds SGMs activities.
PGM is also entitled in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
to recover the following costs and expenses payable Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of from sales revenue excluding the royalty payable to accounting in preparing the Annual Financial Statements.
ARE a all current operating expenses incurred and ACCOUNTING POLICIES paid after the initial commercial production: b exploration costs, including those accumulated Accounting policies are selected and applied in a manner to the commencement of commercial production at the which ensures that the resulting financial statements rate of 33.3% of total accumulated cost per annum : satisfy the concepts of relevance and reliability, thereby and c exploitation capital costs, including those ensuring that the substance of the underlying transactions accumulated prior to the commencement of commercial or other events is reported.
production at the rate of 33.3% of total accumulated The following significant policies have been cost per annum.
adopted in the preparation and presentation EMRA is entitled to a share of SGMs net production of these financial statements: surplus dened as revenue less payment of the xed Cash and cash equivalents royalty to ARE and recoverable costs.
Accordingly, no EMRA entitlement has been recognised to date.
Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits.
Any payment made to EMRA pursuant to these Cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments provisions of the Concession Agreement will be that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash recognised as a variable charge in the income statement.
and which are subject to an insignicant risk of changes in value.
Going concern These financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplate the realisation of assets and liquidation of liabilities during the normal course of operations.
99 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits ACCOUNTING POLICIES the entire combined contract asset or liability to be CONTINUED designated as at FVTPL.
Financial instruments Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in with any gains or losses arising on re-measurement the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability and is included in the other Financial liabilities and equity gains and losses line item in the income statement.
Debt and equity instruments are classied as either Other financial liabilities financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Equity instruments Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at An equity instrument is any contract that evidences amortised cost using the effective interest method, with a residual interest in the assets of an entity after interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued The effective interest method is a method of calculating by the Group are recognised at the proceeds received, the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating net of direct issue costs.
interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated Financial liabilities future cash payments through the expected life of the Financial liabilities are classied as either financial financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
Derecognition of financial liabilities Financial liabilities at FVTPL The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and Financial liabilities are classied as at FVTPL when only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, the financial liability is either held for trading or it is cancelled or they expire.
A financial liability is classied Financial assets as held for trading if: Financial assets are recognised and derecognised on s it has been incurred principally for the purpose trade date where the purchase or sale of a financial of repurchasing it in the near term: or asset is under a contract whose terms require delivery of s on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of the financial asset within the timeframe established by identied financial instruments that the Group the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair manages together and has a recent actual pattern value, net of transaction costs except for those financial of short-term profit-taking: or assets classied as at fair value through the profit or loss s it is a derivative that is not designated and effective which are initially measured at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investments in s A financial liability other than a financial liability held subsidiaries are measured at cost in the company for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon financial statements.
Other financial assets are loans initial recognition if: and receivables.
The classication depends on the s such designation eliminates or signicantly reduces a nature and purpose of the financial assets and is measurement or recognition inconsistency that would determined at the time of initial recognition.
otherwise arise: or s the financial liability forms part of a Group of Effective interest method financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which The effective interest method is a method of calculating is managed and its performance is evaluated on the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups interest income over the relevant period.
The effective documented risk management or investment strategy, interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimate and information about the grouping is provided future cash receipts through the expected life of the internally on that basis: or financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, s it forms part of a contract containing one or more to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
100 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 Available for sale financial assets Impairment of financial assets Listed shares and listed redeemable notes held by the Financial assets, other than those at fair value through Group that are traded in an active market are classied profit or loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment as being AFS and are stated at fair value.
The Group also at each reporting date.
Financial assets are impaired has investments in unlisted shares that are not traded in where there is objective evidence that as a result of one an active market but that are classied as AFS financial or more events that occurred after the initial recognition assets and stated at fair value because the directors of the financial asset the estimated future cash ows of consider that fair value can be reliably measured.
the investment have been impacted.
For financial assets Fair value is determined in the manner described in carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment note 26.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair is the difference between the assets carrying amount value are recognised in other comprehensive income and the present value of estimated future cash ows, and accumulated in the investments revaluation discounted at the original effective interest rate.
reserve with the exception of impairment losses, The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by interest calculated using the effective interest method the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary exception of trade receivables where the carrying amount assets, which are recognised directly in profit or loss.
is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is of amounts previously written off are credited against the reclassied to profit or loss.
Changes in the carrying amount of Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognised the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
in profit or loss when the Groups right to receive the With the exception of available-for-sale equity instruments, dividends is established.
if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment The fair value of AFS monetary assets denominated loss decreases and the decrease can be related in a foreign currency is determined in that foreign objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was currency and translated at the spot rate at the balance recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is sheet date.
The foreign exchange gains and losses that reversed through profit or loss to the extent the carrying are recognised in profit or loss are determined based on amount of the investment at the date the impairment is the amortised cost of the monetary asset.
Other foreign reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would exchange gains and losses are recognised in other have been had the impairment not been recognised.
In respect of available-for-sale equity instruments, any subsequent increase in fair value after an impairment Loans and receivables loss is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an Derecognition of financial assets active market are classied as loans and receivables.
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost the contractual rights to the cash ows from the asset using the effective interest rate method less impairment.
expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and Interest is recognised by applying the effective interest substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of rate except for short-term receivables when the the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers recognition of interest would be immaterial.
nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
101 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 and evaluation costs where they are related directly to 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT operational activities in a particular area of interest.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for CONTINUED impairment when facts and circumstances as dened Employee benets in IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral A liability is recognised for benets accruing to Resources suggest that the carrying amount of employees in respect of wages and salaries, annual exploration and evaluation assets may exceed its leave, long service leave and sick leave when it is recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of the probable that settlement will be required and they are exploration and evaluation assets or the cash-generating capable of being measured reliably.
unit s to which it has been allocated, being no larger than the relevant area of interest is estimated to Liabilities recognised in respect of employee benets determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
expected to be settled within 12 months, are measured Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the at their nominal values using the remuneration rate carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised expected to apply at the time of settlement.
Liabilities estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent recognised in respect of employee benets which are not that the increased carrying amount does not exceed expected to be settled within 12 months are measured the carrying amount that would have been determined as the present value of the estimated future cash ows to had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in be made by the consolidated entity in respect of services previous years.
provided by employees up to reporting date.
Where a decision is made to proceed with development Superannuation in respect of a particular area of interest, the relevant The Company contributes to, but does not participate exploration and evaluation asset is tested for impairment, in, compulsory superannuation funds on behalf of the reclassied to development properties, and then Employees and Directors in respect of salaries and amortised over the life of the reserves associated with the directors fees paid.
Contributions are charged against area of interest once mining operations have commenced.
Development expenditure is recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
Exploration, evaluation and development When commercial production in an area of interest has expenditure commenced, the associated costs are amortised over Exploration and evaluation expenditures in relation to the estimated economic life of the mine on a units of each separate area of interest are recognised as an production basis.
exploration and evaluation asset in the year in which they Changes in factors such as estimates of proved and are incurred where the following conditions are satisfied: probable reserves that affect unit-of-production i the rights to tenure of the area of interest are calculations are dealt with on a prospective basis.
current: and Foreign currencies ii at least one of the following conditions is also met: The individual financial statements of each Group a the exploration and evaluation expenditures are entity are presented in its functional currency being the expected to be recouped through successful currency of the primary economic environment in which development and exploration of the area of the entity operates.
For the purpose of the consolidated interest, or alternatively, by its sale: or financial statements, the results and financial position b exploration and evaluation activities in the of each entity are expressed in United States dollars, area of interest have not at the reporting date which is the functional currency of the Group and the reached a stage which permits a reasonable presentation currency for the consolidated financial assessment of the existence or otherwise of statements.
All companies in the group use the United economically recoverable reserves, and active States Dollar as their functional currency except for and significant operations in, or in relation to, Sheba Exploration Holdings Limited previously, Sheba the area of interest are continuing.
Exploration UK plc and Sheba Exploration Limited that use Great British Pound.
Exploration and evaluation assets are initially measured at cost and include acquisition of rights to explore, studies, exploration drilling, trenching and sampling and associated activities.
General and administrative costs are only included in the measurement of exploration 102 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 In preparing the financial statements of the individual Property, plant and equipment PPE entities, transactions in currencies other than the Plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of depreciation and impairment.
Plant and equipment exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
will include capitalised development expenditure.
Cost At each reporting date, monetary items denominated in includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing acquisition of the item as well as the estimated cost at the reporting date.
Non-monetary items carried at of abandonment.
In the event that settlement of all or fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are part of the purchase consideration is deferred, cost is retranslated at the rates prevailing on the date when the determined by discounting the amounts payable in the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are future to their present value as at the date of acquisition.
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency Depreciation is provided on plant and equipment.
Exchange differences are recognised Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis so in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
as to write off the net cost or other revalued amount of Inventories each asset over its expected useful life to its estimated residual value.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs including an appropriate portion The estimated useful lives, residual values and of xed and variable overhead expenses are assigned depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each to inventory on hand by the method appropriate to each annual financial period, with the effect of any changes particular class of inventory, with the majority being recognised on a prospective basis.
valued on a weighted average cost basis.
Net realisable Freehold land is not depreciated.
value represents the estimated selling price less all The following estimated useful lives are used in the estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to calculation of depreciation: make the sale.
Plant and Equipment - 2- 50 years Ore stockpiles, gold in circuit and bullion are valued applying absorption costing.
Ofce Equipment - 3 - 7 years Motor Vehicles - 2 - 13 years Interests in joint ventures Land and Buildings - 4 - 20 years Jointly controlled entities The gain or loss arising on the disposal or scrappage of Where the Group is a venturer and so has joint control an asset is determined as the difference between the in a jointly controlled entity, the Group recognises its sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses, line is recognised in income.
by line, in the consolidated financial statements.
SGM is wholly consolidated within the Centamin Group Mine development properties of companies, reecting the substance and economic Where mining of a mineral resource has commenced, reality of the Concession Agreement see Note 23. the accumulated costs are transferred to mine properties.
Leased assets Amortisation is first charged to new mine development ventures from the date of first commercial production.
Leased assets are classied as finance leases when the Amortisation of mine properties is on a unit of terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and production basis resulting in an amortisation charge rewards incidental to ownership of the leased asset to the proportional to the depletion of the proved and probable lessee.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
The unit of production can be on a tonnes Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense or an ounce depleted basis.
on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where Capitalised underground development costs incurred other systematic basis is more representative of the time to enable access to specic ore blocks or areas of the pattern in which economic benets from the leased underground mine, and which only provide an economic asset are consumed.
Contingent rentals arising under benefit over the period of mining that ore block or area, operating leases are recognised as an expense in the are depreciated on a unit of production basis, whereby period in which they are incurred.
the denominator is estimated ounces of gold in proven and probable reserves within that ore block or area where it is considered probable that those resources will be extracted economically.
103 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 on the total ounces to be produced over the life of the 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT component of the ore body.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Deferred stripping costs are included in Stripping CONTINUED Assets, within tangible assets.
These form part of the Stripping activity assets total investment in the relevant cash-generating unit, The group defers stripping costs incurred removal of which is reviewed for impairment if events or a change in mine waste materials which provide improved access to circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not further quantities of material that will be mined in future be recoverable.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs periods.
During the current year, the Group changed its is included in operating costs.
accounting policy on stripping costs in the production Impairment of assets other than exploration and phase of a surface mine IFRIC 20 effective 1 January evaluation and financial assets 2012.
IFRIC 20 provides clarity on how to account for and measure the removal of mine waste materials which At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying provide access to mineral ore deposits.
This waste amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to removal activity is known as stripping.
There can be two determine whether there is any indication that those benets accruing to the entity from the stripping activity: assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset s usable ore that can be used to produce inventory: and is estimated in order to determine the extent of the s improved access to further quantities of material that impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not will be mined in future periods.
generate cash ows that are independent from other The costs of stripping activity to be accounted for in assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of accordance with the principles of IAS 2 Inventories to the the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
extent that the benefit from the stripping activity is realised Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less in the form of inventory produced.
The costs of stripping costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in activity which provides a benefit in the form of improved use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to access to ore is recognised as a non-current stripping their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that activity asset where the following criteria are met: reects current market assessment of the time value of i. it is probable that the future economic benefit money and the risks specic to the asset for which the improved access to the ore body associated with estimates of future ows have not been adjusted.
the stripping activity will ow to the entity: If the recoverable amount of an asset or cashii.
the entity can identify the component of the ore generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying body for which access has been improved: and amount, the carrying amount of the asset cashgenerating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
the costs relating to the stripping activity associated Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the with that component can be measured reliably.
carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit When the costs of the stripping activity asset and the is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable inventory produced are not separately identiable, amount, but only to the extent that the increased production stripping costs are allocated between the carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount inventory produced and the stripping activity asset by that would have been determined had no impairment using an allocation basis that is based on a relevant loss been recognised for the asset cash generating unit production measure.
A stripping activity asset is in prior years.
accounted for as an addition to, or as an enhancement A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised of, an existing asset and classied as tangible or immediately in profit or less, unless the relevant asset is intangible according to the nature of the existing asset of carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal which it forms part.
A stripping activity asset is initially of an impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
measured at cost and subsequently carried at cost or its revalued amount less depreciation or amortisation Revenue and impairment losses.
A stripping activity asset is Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration depreciated or amortised on a systematic basis, over received or receivable for goods and services in the the expected useful life of the identied component of normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and the ore body that becomes more accessible as a result other sales-related taxes.
The stripping activity asset is depreciated using a units of production method based 104 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 Sale of goods Business combinations Revenue from the sale of mineral production is Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are recognised when the Group has passed the significant accounted for using the acquisition method.
The risks and rewards of ownership of the mineral production consideration for each acquisition is measured at the to the buyer, it is probable that economic benets aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of associated with the transaction will ow to the Group, assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity the sales price can be measured reliably, and the Group instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control has no significant continuing involvement and the costs of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction in profit or loss as incurred.
This is when insurance risk Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition has passed to the buyer and the goods have been includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent collected at the agreed location.
consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisitionWhere the terms of the executed sales agreement allow date fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values for an adjustment to the sales price based on a survey are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where of the mineral production by the buyer for instance an they qualify as measurement period adjustments see assay for gold content, recognition of the revenue from below.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of the sale of mineral production is based on the most contingent consideration classied as an asset or liability recently determined estimate of product specications.
are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration Pre-production revenues classied as equity are not recognised.
Income derived by the entity prior to the date of Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the commercial production being 1 April 2010 was offset Groups previously-held interests in the acquired entity against the expenditure capitalised and carried in the are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
the date the Group attains control and the resulting gain All revenues recognised after 1 April 2010 are or loss, if any, is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts recognised in accordance with the revenue policy stated arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the above.
1 April 2010 was selected as the commencement acquisition date that have previously been recognised in date of commercial production due to the fact that other comprehensive income are reclassied to profit or sufficient, stable and sustained production capacity loss, where such treatment would be appropriate if that had been achieved as at that date.
Interest revenue The acquirees identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for Interest income is recognised when it is probable that recognition under IFRS 3 2008 are recognised at their the economic benets will ow to the Group and the fair value at the acquisition date, except that: amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
s deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or Interest revenue is accrued on a time basis, by reference assets related to employee benefit arrangements to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest are recognised and measured in accordance with rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benets estimated future cash receipts through the expected life respectively: of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
s liabilities or equity instruments related to the Production royalty replacement by the Group of an acquirees share based The Arab Republic of Egypt ARE is entitled to a royalty of 3% of net sales revenue as dened from the s payment awards are measured in accordance with sale of gold and associated minerals from the Sukari IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: and Project.
This royalty is calculated and recognised on s assets or disposal Groups that are classied as held receipt of the final certicate of analysis document for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Noncurrent.
Due to its nature, the production is not recognised in cost of sales.
105 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 the Groups share of the net fair value of the identiable 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the ACCOUNTING POLICIES cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised CONTINUED immediately in profit or loss.
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are Where a Group entity transacts with an associate of the measured in accordance with that Standard.
If the initial Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for Share-based payments the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Equity-settled share-based payments with employees Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the and others providing similar services are measured at measurement period see below, or additional assets the fair value of the equity instrument at grant date.
Fair or liabilities are recognised, to reect new information value is measured by the use of the Black and Scholes obtained about facts and circumstances that existed model.
Where share-based payments are subject to as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have market conditions, fair value was measured by the use affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
The fair value determined The measurement period is the period from the date at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete payments is expensed over the vesting period, based information about facts and circumstances that existed on the consolidated entitys estimate of shares that will as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum eventually vest.
Equity-settled share based transactions with other parties are measured at the fair value of the goods or Investments in associates services received, except where the fair value cannot An associate is an entity over which the Group has be estimated reliably, in which case they are measured significant inuence and that is neither a subsidiary nor at the fair value of the equity instruments granted, an interest in a joint venture.
significant inuence is measured at the date the entity obtains the goods or the the power to participate in the financial and operating counter party renders the service.
policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, control over those policies.
based on managements best estimate, for the effects of The results and assets and liabilities of associates non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural are incorporated in these financial statements using considerations.
Further details on how the fair value the equity method of accounting, except when the of equity-settled share-based transactions has been investment is classied as held for sale, in which case it determined can be found in Note 27.
At each reporting is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
equity instruments expected to vest.
The impact of the Under the equity method, investments in associates revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost in profit or loss over the remaining vesting period, with as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups corresponding adjustment to the equity-settled employee share of the net assets of the associate, less any benets reserve.
impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses Issued capital of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any long-term interests that, Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in of new shares or options are shown in equity as a the associate are recognised only to the extent that the deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or Where the Company or other members of the made payments on behalf of the associate.
consolidated Group purchases the Companys equity Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from share of the net fair value of the identiable assets, the total shareholders equity of the Group and or of the liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate Company as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the any consideration received is included in shareholders carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for equity of the Group and or the Company.
impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of 106 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets Taxation reects the tax consequences that would follow from the Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the currently payable and deferred tax.
reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
Current tax The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there the period.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income against current tax liabilities and when they relate to because of items of income or expense that are taxable income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and or deductible in other periods and items that are never the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax liabilities on a net basis.
is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or Special considerations substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
In Australia, Centamin Egypt Limited and Pharaoh Gold Deferred tax Mines NL have elected to form a tax consolidated group Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences and therefore are treated as a single entity for Australian between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities income tax purposes.
Pharaoh Gold Mines NL has in the financial statements and the corresponding elected into the Branch profits Exemption whereby tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
foreign branch income will generally not be subject to Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all Australian income tax.
Deferred tax assets In Egypt, Centamin has entered into a concession are generally recognised for all deductible temporary agreement that provides that the income generated by differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable Sukari Gold Mining Companys activities is granted a profits will be available against which those deductible long-term tax exemption from all taxes imposed in Egypt.
temporary differences can be utilised.
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the Restoration and rehabilitation temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the A provision for restoration and rehabilitation is initial recognition other than in a business combination recognised when there is a present obligation as a result of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects of exploration, development and production activities neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
undertaken, it is probable that an outow of economic benets will be required to settle the obligation, and Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable the amount of the provision can be measured reliably.
temporary differences associated with investments The estimated future obligations include the costs of in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint dismantling and removal of facilities, restoration and ventures, except where the Group is able to control the monitoring of the affected areas.
The provision for future reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable restoration costs is the best estimate of the present that the temporary difference will not reverse in the value of the expenditure required to settle the restoration foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets arising from obligation at the reporting date.
Future restoration costs deductible temporary differences associated with such are reviewed annually and any changes in the estimate investments and interests are only recognised to the are reected in the present value of the restoration extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient provision at each reporting date.
taxable profits against which to utilise the benets of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse The initial estimate of the restoration and rehabilitation in the foreseeable future.
provision relating to exploration, development and mining production activities is capitalised into the cost of the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed related asset and amortised on the same basis as the at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the related asset, unless the present obligation arises from the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable production of the inventory in the period, in which case the profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to amount is included in the cost of production for the period.
Changes in the estimate of the provision of restoration Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the and rehabilitation are treated in the same manner, except tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in that the unwinding of the effect of discounting on the which the liability is settled or the asset realised, based provision is recognised as a finance cost rather than being on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or capitalised into the cost of the related asset.
substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
107 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 Accounting treatment of Sukari Gold Mines 4.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING SGM JUDGEMENTS SGM is wholly consolidated within the Centamin Group i Critical Judgements in Applying the Entitys of companies, reecting the substance and economic Accounting Policies reality of the Concession Agreement see Note 23.
The following are the critical judgements that Recovery of Capitalised Exploration Evaluation management has made in the process of applying the and Development Expenditure Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the The Groups accounting policy for exploration and financial statements: evaluation expenditure results in exploration and evaluation expenditure being capitalised for those Litigation projects where such expenditure is considered likely to The Group is currently a party to two legal actions both be recoverable through future extraction activity or sale or of which could affect its ability to operate the mine at where the exploration activities have not reached a stage Sukari in the manner in which it is currently operated which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence and adversely affect its profitability.
The details of this of reserves.
This policy requires management to make litigation, which relate to the loss of the Egyptian national certain estimates and assumptions as to future events subsidy for Diesel Fuel Oil and the ability of the Group and circumstances, in particular whether the Group will 2 to operate outside the area of 3km determined by the proceed with development based on existence of reserves Administrative Court of first instance to be the area of or whether an economically viable extraction operation the exploitation lease, are given on in Note 20 to the can be established.
Such estimates and assumptions Financial Statements, and in the most recently led may change from period to period as new information Annual Information Form AIF which is available on becomes available.
If, subsequent to the exploration and www.
Although it is possible to quantify the evaluation expenditure being capitalised, a judgement effects of the loss the national fuel subsidy, it is not is made that recovery of the expenditure is unlikely or currently possible to quantify with sufficient precision the project is to be abandoned, the relevant capitalised 2 the effect of restricting operations to an area of 3km.
amount will be written off to the income statement.
Every action is being taken to contest these decisions, ii Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty including the making of formal legal appeals and, The following are the key assumptions concerning the although their resolution may take some time, future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty management remain confident that a satisfactory at the reporting date, that have a significant risk of outcome will ultimately be achieved.
In the meantime, causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of however, the Group is continuing to pay international assets and liabilities within the next financial year: prices for Diesel Fuel Oil.
With respect to the Administrative Court ruling, on 20 March 2013 the Provision for restoration and rehabilitation costs Supreme Administrative Court upheld the Companys The Group is required to decommission, rehabilitate and application to suspend this decision until the merits of restore mines and processing sites at the end of their the Companys appeal are considered and ruled on, thus producing lives to a condition acceptable to the relevant providing assurance that normal operations would be authorities.
The provision has been calculated taking into able to continue during this process.
account the estimated future obligations including the In the unlikely event that the Group is unsuccessful costs of dismantling and removal of facilities, restoration in either or both of its legal actions, and that the and monitoring of the affected areas.
The provision operating activities are restricted to a reduced area, for future restoration costs is the best estimate of the it is managements belief that the Group will be able present value of the expenditure required to settle the to continue as going concern.
restoration obligation at the reporting date.
108 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 Ore reserve estimates Estimates of recoverable quantities of reserves include assumptions on commodity prices, exchange rates, discount rates and production costs for future cashows.
It also involves assessment and judgement of difficult geological models.
The economic, geological and technical factors used to estimate ore reserves may change from period to period.
Changes in ore reserves affect the carrying values of mine properties, property, plant and equipment, provision for rehabilitation assets and deferred taxes.
Ore reserves are integral to the amount of depreciation and amortisation charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income and the calculation of inventory.
Production forecasts from the underground mine at Sukari are partly based on estimates regarding future resource and reserve growth.
It is the opinion of management and Directors that these estimates are both realistic and conservative, based on current information.
However, as the mine relies on continued deeper development and exploration drilling for further reserve denition, the life of this part of the mine remains limited and there is a risk that some or all of this growth will not materialise with a consequent negative impact on current production forecasts.
REVENUE An analysis of the Groups revenue for the year, from continuing operations, is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Gold sales 425,812 339,779 Silver sales 321 700 426,133 340,479 Finance income 898 1,288 427,031 341,767 6.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX profit for the year has been arrived at after crediting charging the following gains losses and expenses: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Before exceptional Exceptional items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Cost of sales Mine production costs 140,067 36,654 176,721 112,393 Movement in inventory 5,854 3,572 9,426 2,833 Depreciation and Amortisation 35,601 36 35,637 18,642 169,814 33,118 202,932 128,202 109 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 6.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX CONTINUED 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Finance income Interest received 898 1,288 Other operating costs Corporate compliance 2,956 1,506 Corporate consultants 772 383 Employee entitlements 141 33 Salary and wages 8,314 1,598 Travel and accommodation 956 694 Other administration expenses 1,887 1,090 Employee equity settled share based payments 1,981 1,496 Fixed royalty Attributable to the Egyptian government 12,769 13,360 Foreign exchange gain, net 5,170 584 Investment loss, net of tax - 93 Provision for restoration and rehabilitation unwinding of discount 263 89 Share of loss in associate 330 - Lease payments 306 - Exceptional items The Directors consider that items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their unusual, irregular or non-recurring nature should be disclosed separately if the consolidated financial statements are to fairly present the financial position and underlying business performance.
In order to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented within the consolidated financial statements, and specically the Groups underlying business performance, the effect of exceptional items are shown below.
31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Included in Cost of sales Mine production costs 36,654 - Movement in inventory 3,572 - Depreciation and Amortisation 36 - 33,118 - 110 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 In January 2012 the Company received a letter from As at the date of this document, no final decision Chevron to the effect that Chevron would not be able to had been taken by the courts regarding this matter.
continue supplying Diesel Fuel Oil DFO to the mine at Furthermore, the Group remains of the view that Sukari at local subsidised prices.
It is understood that an instant move to international fuel prices is not a the reason that this letter was issued was that Chevron reasonable outcome and will look to recover funds had received a letter instructing it to do so from the advanced thus far should the court proceeding Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation EGPC.
It be concluded in its favour.
However, Management is further understood that EGPC itself took the decision recognises the practical difficulties associated with to issue this instruction because it had received legal re-claiming funds from the government and for this advice from the Legal Advice Department of the Council reason have, fully provided against the prepayment of of State an internal government advisory department US$41.4 million, as an exceptional item, as follows: that the companies operating in the gold mining sector in Egypt were not entitled to such subsidies.
In addition, a a US$33.1 million increase in cost of sales, the Company during the year received a demand from b a US$0.6 million increase in stores inventories, Chevron for the repayment of fuel subsidies received c a US$3.6 million increase in mining stockpiles in the period from late 2009 through to January 2012, and ore in circuit, and amounting to some US$60 million EGP403 million.
d a US$4.1 million increase in property, plant and equipment capital WIP.
The Group has taken detailed legal advice on this matter and, in particular, on the opinion given by Legal Advice This has resulted in a net decrease of US$33.1 million Department of the Council of State and in consequence in the profit and loss.
in June lodged an appeal against EGPCs decision in the Administrative Courts.
Again, the Group believes that its grounds for appeal are strong and that there is every prospect of success.
However, as a practical matter, and in order to ensure the continuation of supply, the Group has since January advanced funds to our fuel supplier, Chevron, based on the international price for diesel.
31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Included in Other operating costs Re-domicile costs 564 2,645 The re-domicile costs relate to the expenses incurred in moving the Group from Australia to Jersey by means of the Company becoming the holding company of the Group.
111 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 7.
TAX Tax recognised in profit is summarised as follows: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 a Tax expense Current tax Current tax expense in respect of the current year - - Adjustments recognised in the current year in relation to the current tax in prior period 444 - Deferred tax Deferred tax expense relating to the origination and reversal of temporary differences - 222 Tax losses and temporary differences not recognized - 222 444 - Total tax expense 31 December 31 December The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the profit per 2012 2011 the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as follows: US$000 US$000 profit before income tax 198,594 193,994 Add: Share of loss in Associate 330 - 198,924 193,994 1 Tax expense calculated at 0% 2011 : 30% of profit before tax - 58,198 Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible taxable in calculating taxable income: Non-deductible expenses - 48,703 Tax effect of income not taxable in determining taxable profit - 107,209 Tax Losses and temporary differences not recognized - 308 Adjustments recognised in the current year in relation to the current tax in prior periods 444 - Tax expense for the year 444 - 1 The tax rate used in the above reconciliation is the corporate tax rate of 0% payable by Jersey corporate entities under the Jersey tax law 2011 : 30% payable by Australian corporate entities on taxable profits under the Australian tax law.
There has been no change in the underlying corporate tax rates when compared to the previous financial period.
31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Current tax liabilities Current tax payable - 444 112 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 Tax consolidation 8.
SEGMENT REPORTING The Group is engaged in the business of exploration Relevance of tax consolidation to the consolidated entity and mining of precious and base metals only, which Companies within the Groups wholly-owned Australian represents a single operating segment.
The Board is resident entities formed a tax-consolidated Group with the Groups chief operating decision maker within the effect from 1 July 2003.
The head entity within the meaning of IFRS 8. tax-consolidated Group is Centamin Egypt Limited.
The members of the tax-consolidated Group are identied at Note 21.
Nature of tax funding arrangements and tax sharing agreements Entities within the tax-consolidated Group have entered into a tax funding arrangement and a tax-sharing agreement with the head entity.
Under the terms of the tax funding agreement, Centamin Egypt Limited and each of the entities in the tax-consolidated Group has agreed to pay a tax equivalent payment to or from the head entity, based on the current tax liability or current tax asset of the entity.
Such amounts are reected in amounts receivable from or payable to other entities in the tax-consolidated Group.
The tax sharing agreement entered into between members of the tax-consolidated Group provides for the determination of the allocation of income tax liabilities between the entities should the head entity default on its tax payment obligations.
No amounts have been recognised in the financial statements in respect of this agreement as payment of any amounts under the tax sharing agreement is considered remote.
113 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 9.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Gold sales debtors 40,736 29,976 Other receivables -22 40,736 29,998 Trade and other receivables are classied as loans and receivables and are therefore measured at amortised cost.
The average age of the receivables is 35 days 2011: 32 days.
No interest is charged on the receivables.
There are no trade receivables past due and impaired at the reporting date, and thus no allowance for doubtful debts has been recognised.
Of the trade receivables balance, the gold sales debtor is all receivable from Johnson Matthey of Canada.
The amount due has been received subsequent to year-end and was considered to be fully recoverable.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to their fair value.
INVENTORIES 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Mining stockpiles and ore in circuit 22,800 13,374 Stores 71,836 59,257 94,636 72,631 The Group changed its accounting policy on production-phase stripping costs with effect from 1 January 2012.
As a result, the 2011 results have been restated.
Refer to Note 3 for further details.
During the year US$20,493 2011: US$295,000 of inventory has been written off to other operating costs.
PREPAYMENTS 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Prepayments 466 1,576 Fuel prepayments -- 466 1,576 Movement in fuel prepayments Balance at the beginning of the year - - Fuel prepayment recognised 41,417 - 1 Less: Provision charged to : Mine production costs see Note 6 36,654 Property, plant and equipment see Note 6 4,157 Inventories see Note 6 606 - -- Balance at the end of the year 1 Refer to Note 6, Exceptional Items, for further details.
115 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 12.
EXPLORATION AND EVALUATION ASSET 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Balance at the beginning of the period 31,113 3,752 Acquisition of Sheba Exploration UK plc exploration rights - 10,413 14,556 16,948 Expenditure for the period 45,669 31,113 Balance at the end of the period The exploration and evaluation asset relates to the drilling, geological exploration and sampling of potential ore reserves.
During the prior year the Group acquired the exploration rights in Sheba Exploration UK plc of US$10.2 million for the licences of Werie Lehe and Saharti Licences, granted until 29 November 2013, and the Una Deriam Licence, granted until 19 March 2014.
Both licences are renewable for a period of one year.
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS AND INTERESTS IN ASSOCIATES 14.1 Available-for-sale financial assets 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Balance at the beginning of the period 1,831 - Acquisitions 6,427 17,403 - 11,408 Disposals 159 207 profit Loss on foreign exchange movement 2,804 3,957 Loss on fair value of investment other comprehensive income 5,613 1,831 Balance at the end of the period The available for sale financial asset at year-end relates to a 14% equity interest in Nyota Minerals Limited NYO, a listed public company.
Management are not planning on divesting from this investment in the foreseeable future.
During 2011 the Group acquired shares in Auryx Gold Corporation AYX a listed public company for US$11,408,000 and the investment was sold for US$11,191,490 during the prior year.
A profit on disposal of US$92,754 and a foreign exchange loss of US$207,000 were realised.
14.2 Interests in associates 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Balance at the beginning of the period 3,296 - Acquisitions 166 3,296 330 - Share of loss in associate 3,132 3,296 Balance at the end of the period The interest in associate relate to the Groups 36% equity interest in Sahar Minerals Limited, of which 33% was acquired in July 2011, and an additional 3% was acquired in December 2012.
The associate holds exploration rights and continues to explore.
In 2011, the interest in associate was held at the cost of US$3,296,000 at year-end and no movement in the investment was recorded as there was no financial information available for the associate since acquisition.
117 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 15.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Trade payables 21,121 12,909 Other creditors and accruals 33,485 11,600 54,606 24,509 Trade payables principally comprise the amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 38 days 2011: 45 days.
Trade payables are interest free for periods ranging from 30 to 180 days.
Thereafter interest is charged at commercial rates.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit timeframe.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximate their fair value.
PROVISIONS 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Current Employee benets i 625 717 4,337 - Bonus provision 4,962 717 Non-current -- Employee benets 5,544 2,630 Restoration and rehabilitation ii 5,544 2,630 Movement in restoration and rehabilitation provision 2,630 2,541 Balance at beginning of the year 2,651 - Additional provision recognised 263 89 Interest expense unwinding of discount Balance at end of the year 5,544 2,630 Movement in bonus provision Balance at beginning of the year - - Provision recognised 4,337 - Balance at end of the year 4,337 - i Employee benets relate to annual, sick and long service leave entitlements.
The current provision for employee benets as at 31 December 2012 includes US$625,118 31 December 2011: US$707,780 of annual leave entitlements.
ii The provision for restoration and rehabilitation represents the present value of the directors best estimate of the future outow of economic benets that will be required to remove the facilities and restore the affected areas at the Groups sites discounted by 10%.
This estimate has been made on the basis of benchmark assessments of restoration works required following mine closure and after taking into account the projected area to be disturbed over the life of the mine.
ISSUED CAPITAL 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Balance at beginning of the period 608,596 600,500 Issue of shares upon exercise of options and warrants - 3,606 510 452 Transfer from share options reserve 3,367 4,152 Other placements 10 114 Share issue costs 612,463 608,596 Balance at end of the period During 2011 the Company re-domiciled to Jersey and the presentation below is line with the requirements of the Jersey Companies Act.
Fully paid ordinary shares carry one vote per share and carry the right to dividends.
See Note 27 for more details of the share options.
RESERVES 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Option reserve -- Asset realisation reserve - - -- Other reserves sub-total 3,477 2,006 Share option reserve 3,477 2,006 The option reserve and share option reserve have been created from the issuing of options for a consideration greater than their then nominal or par value.
The asset realisation reserve has been created from the realisation of particular assets.
The capital reserve was created from the cancellation of shares in the Company held by Pharaoh Gold Mines NL.
119 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 18.
RESERVES continued 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Option reserve Balance at beginning of the period - 1,857 - 1,857 Movements during the period -- Balance at the end of the period Share option reserve 2,006 1,050 Balance at beginning of the period 1,981 1,496 Cost of share-based payments 510 452 Transfer to issued capital - 88 Transfer to retained earnings 3,477 2,006 Balance at the end of the period The share option reserve arises on the grant of share options to employees under the employee share option plan and on grant of broker warrants.
Amounts are transferred out of the reserve and into issued capital when the options and warrants are exercised.
COMMITMENTS FOR EXPENDITURE 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 a Capital expenditure commitments Plant and equipment 55,978 40,026 Not longer than 1 year -- Longer than 1 year and not longer than 5 years -- Longer than 5 years 55,978 40,026 b Operating lease commitments Ofce premises 319 56 Not longer than 1 year 486 - Longer than 1 year and not longer than 5 years 60 - Longer than 5 years 865 56 Operating lease commitments are limited to ofce premises in London and Jersey.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND On 30 October 2012, the Administrative Court in Egypt CONTINGENT ASSETS handed down a judgment in relation to a claim brought by, Contingent Liabilities amongst others, an independent member of the previous parliament, in which he argued for the nullification of the Fuel Supply agreement that confers on the Group rights to operate In January 2012, the Group received a letter from in Egypt.
This agreement, the Concession Agreement, Chevron to the effect that Chevron would only be able to was entered into between the Arab Republic of Egypt, supply Diesel Fuel Oil DFO to the mine at Sukari at the Egyptian Mineral Resources Authority EMRA and international prices rather than at local subsidised prices, Centamins wholly owned subsidiary Pharaoh Gold Mines which had the effect of adding approximately US$150 PGM, and was approved by the Peoples Assembly as per ounce to the cost of production.
It is understood that Law 222 of 1994. the reason that this letter was issued was that Chevron In summary that judgment states that, although the had received a letter instructing it to do so from the Concession Agreement itself remains valid and in force, Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation EGPC.
sufficient evidence had not been submitted to Court It is further understood that EGPC itself issued this 2 in order to demonstrate that the 160km exploitation instruction because it had received legal advice from lease between PGM and EMRA had received approval the Legal Advice Department of the Council of State from the relevant Minister as required by the terms of an internal government advisory department that the the Concession Agreement.
Accordingly, the Court companies operating in the gold mining sector in Egypt found that the exploitation lease in respect of the area of were not entitled to such subsidies.
In November, the 2 160km was not valid although it stated that there was Group received a further demand from Chevron for the 2 in existence such a lease in respect of an area of 3km.
repayment of fuel subsidies received during the period Centamin, however, is in possession of the executed from late 2009 through to January 2012, amounting to original lease documentation which clearly shows that the EGP403 million approximately US$60 million at current 2 160km exploitation lease was approved by the Minister exchange rates.
of Petroleum and Mineral Resources.
It appears that an The Group has taken detailed legal advice on this matter executed original document was not supplied to the Court.
and, in particular, on the opinion given by the Legal Upon notication of the judgment the Group took various Advice Department of the Council of State and in June steps to protect its ability to continue to operate the mine 2012 lodged an appeal against EGPCs decision in the at Sukari.
These included both lodging a formal appeal Administrative Courts.
Again, the Group believes that its before the Supreme Administrative Court on 26 November grounds for appeal are strong and that there is a good 2012 and, in the first instance, lodging an Objection prospect of success.
However, as a practical matter, to Enforcement in respect of with the Civil Court on 31 and in order to ensure the continuation of supply whilst October 2012: this was an interim measure which had the matter is resolved, the Group has since January the effect of staying postponing implementation of the advanced funds to our fuel supplier, Chevron, original ruling until such time as the Objection is heard.
based on the international price for fuel.
In addition, in conjunction with the formal appeal the As at the date of this document, no decision had been Group applied to the Supreme Administrative Court to taken by the courts regarding this matter.
The Group suspend the initial decision until such time as the court remains of the view that an instant move to international is able to consider and rule on the merits of the appeal.
fuel prices is not a reasonable outcome and will look On 20 March 2013 the Court upheld this application thus to recover funds advanced thus far should the court suspending the initial decision and providing assurance proceeding be successfully concluded.
However, that normal operations would be able to continue whilst Management recognises the practical difficulties the appeal process is underway.
associated with re-claiming funds from the government and for this reason have fully provided against the prepayment of US$41.4 million, as an exceptional item.
Refer to Note 6 of the accompanying financial statements for further details on the impact of this exceptional provision on the Groups results for 2012.
No provision has been made in respect of the historic subsidies prior to January 2012 as, based on legal advice, the Company believes that the prospects of a court nding in its favour in relation to this matter remain very strong.
121 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 EMRA lodged its own appeal in relation to this matter on Contingent Assets 27 November 2012, the day after the Companys appeal There were no contingent assets at year-end was lodged.
Furthermore, in late December 2012, the 31 December 2011: nil.
Minister of Petroleum lodged a supporting appeal and shortly thereafter publicly indicated that, in his view, the terms of the Concession Agreement were fair and that the exploitation lease was valid.
The Minister of Petroleum also expressed support for the investment and expertise that Centamin brings to the country.
We believe this demonstrates the governments commitment to our investment at Sukari and the desire to stimulate further investment in the Egyptian mining industry.
We do not yet know when the appeal will conclude, although are aware of the potential for the process in Egypt to be lengthy.
The Company has taken extensive legal advice on the merits of its appeal from two leading Egyptian law rms who have confirmed that the proper steps were followed with regard to the grant of the 160km lease.
We therefore remain of the view that the appeal is based on strong legal grounds and will ultimately be successful.
In the event that the appellate court fails to be persuaded of the merits of the case put forward by the Group, the operations at Sukari may be adversely effected to the extent that the companies operation exceeded the exploitation lease area of 3km referred to in the original court decision.
The Company remains confident that normal operations at Sukari will be maintained whilst the appeal case is heard.
SUBSIDIARIES The parent entity of the Group is Centamin plc, incorporated in Jersey, and the details of its subsidiaries are as follows: Ownership interest 31 December 31 December Country of 2012 2011 incorporation % % Centamin Egypt Limited Australia 100 100 Viking Resources Limited Australia 100 100 Australia 100 100 North African Resources NL Australia 100 100 Pharaoh Gold Mines NL Egypt 50 50 Egyptian Pharaoh Investments Egypt 50 50 Sukari Gold Mining Co United Kingdom 100 100 Centamin UK Limited 2 United Kingdom 100 100 Sheba Exploration Holdings Limited Jersey 100 - Centamin Group Services Limited Jersey 100 - Centamin Holdings Limited Ethiopia 100 100 Sheba Exploration Limited Bermuda 100 100 Centamin Limited Dormant company.
Previously Sheba Exploration UK Plc 123 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 22.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION The analysis of the auditors remuneration is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Fees payable to the companys auditor and their associates for the audit of the companys annual accounts 210 231 Additional fees relating to the prior year 191 - Fees payable to the companys auditor and their associates for other services to the group 48 - - The audit of the companys subsidiaries Total audit fees 449 231 Non audit fees: 126 - Audit related assurance services -308 Other assurance services 79 90 Tax compliance services 122 247 Tax advisory services Total non-audit fees 327 645 Additional one-off fees incurred as a result of the re-domicile process.
The auditor of the Centamin plc Group of companies is Deloitte LLP.
During 2011 Deloitte performed tax advisory services for the various tax implications and considerations for the re-domicile, and for the IPO and related services.
Deloitte obtained pre-approval from the Audit Committee for performing these services and have used separate teams for the tax advisory services, than the team performing the audit.
The Audit Committee and the external auditor have safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised.
These safeguards include the implementation of a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit related services.
Where it is deemed that the work to be undertaken is of a nature that is generally considered reasonable to be completed by the auditor of the Company for sound commercial and practical reasons, the conduct of such work will be permissible provided that it has been pre-approved.
All these services are also subject to a predened fee limit.
Any work performed in excess of this limit must be approved by the Audit Committee.
JOINTLY CONTROLLED ENTITIES The consolidated entity has material interests in the following ventures: Name of joint venture Principal activities Percentage Interest 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 % % 1 Egyptian Pharaoh Investments Exploration 50 50 Sukari Gold Mines Exploration and Production 50 50 1 Dormant Company.
The Groups interest as a joint venture partner, in the above jointly controlled entities, is detailed below.
The amounts are included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group using the line-by-line reporting format.
31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Statement of financial position US$000 US$000 Current assets Cash 32,107 32,100 40,734 29,976 Trade and other receivables 94,636 72,631 Inventories 289 247 Prepayments 167,766 134,954 Non-current assets Exploration, evaluation and development 32,002 18,699 32,002 18,699 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 53,601 21,639 53,601 21,639 Statement of comprehensive income Revenue 426,133 340,479 Cost of sales 204,109 128,201 Gross profit 222,024 212,278 Other operating income 37 700 Other operating costs 4,096 1,631 profit before income tax 226,157 211,347 Tax expenses -- 226,157 211,347 Net profit for the year Capital commitments arising from the Groups interests in joint ventures are disclosed in Note 19.
125 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 Through its wholly owned subsidiary, PGM, the Company The Concession Agreement grants certain tax entered into the Concession Agreement with EMRA exemptions, including the following: and the Arab Republic of Egypt granting PGM and s From 1 April 2010, being the date of Commercial EMRA the right to explore, develop, mine and sell gold Production, the Sukari Project is entitled to a 15 year and associated minerals in specic concession areas exemption from any taxes imposed by the Egyptian located in the Eastern Desert of Egypt.
The Concession government on the revenues generated from the Agreement came into effect under Egyptian law on Sukari Project.
PGM and EMRA intend that SGM 13 June 1995. will in due course le an application to extend the In 2001 PGM, together with EMRA, were granted an tax-free period for a further 15 years.
The extension 2 Exploitation Lease over 160 km surrounding the Sukari of the tax-free period requires that there has been Project site.
The Exploitation Lease was signed by no tax problems or disputes in the initial period and PGM, EMRA and the Egyptian Minister of Petroleum that certain activities in new remote areas have been and gives tenure for a period of 30 years, commencing planned and agreed by all parties: 24 May 2005 and extendable by PGM for an additional s PGM and SGM are exempt from custom taxes and 30 years upon PGM providing reasonable commercial duties with respect to the importation of machinery, justication.
equipment and consumable items required for the purpose of exploration and mining activities at the In 2006 SGM, was incorporated under the laws of Egypt.
The exemption shall only apply if SGM was formed to conduct exploration, development, there is no local substitution with the same of similar exploitation and marketing operations in accordance quality to the imported machinery, equipment or with the Concession Agreement.
Such exemption will also be granted day-to-day management of the Project rests with the if the local substitution is more than 10% more General Manger, who is appointed by PGM.
expensive than the imported machinery, equipment The scal terms of the Concession Agreement require that or consumables after the additional of the insurance PGM solely funds the SGM.
PGM is however entitled to and transportation costs: recover from sales revenue recoverable costs, as dened s PGM, EMRA and SGM and their respective buyers in the Concession Agreement.
EMRA is entitled to a share will be exempt from any duties or taxes on the export of SGMs net production surplus or profit share dened of gold and associated minerals produced from the as revenue less payment of the xed royalty to ARE and Sukari Project: recoverable costs.
As at 31 December 2012, PGMs s PGM at all times is free to transfer in US dollars or has not recovered its cost and accordingly, no EMRA other freely convertible foreign currency any cash entitlement has been recognized to date, it is anticipated of PGM representing its share of net proceeds and that the first payment to EMRA will become payable during recovery of costs, without any Egyptian government 2013, any payment made to EMRA pursuant to these limitation, tax or duty: and provisions of the Concession Agreement will be recognised s PGMs contractors and sub-contractors are entitled as a variable royalty charge to the income statement.
Equipment and consumable items under the Temporary Release System which provided exemption from Egyptian customs duty.
EARNINGS PER SHARE 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Cents Per Share Cents Per Share Basic earnings per share 18.27 17.90 Diluted earnings per share 18.26 17.88 Basic earnings per share The earnings and weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $000 US$000 Earnings used in the calculation of basic EPS 199,038 193,993 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 No.
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 1,089,653,789 1,083,738,358 Diluted earnings per share The earnings and weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $000 US$000 Earnings used in the calculation of diluted EPS 199,038 193,993 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 No.
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 1,089,977,621 1,084,906,503 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 1,089,653,789 1,083,738,358 Shares deemed to be issued for no consideration in respect of employee options 323,832 1,168,145 1,089,977,621 1,084,906,503 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted EPS No potential ordinary shares were excluded from the calculation of weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share.
127 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 25.
NOTES TO THE STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS a Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the statement of cash ows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand and at bank and deposits.
31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $000 $000 Cash and cash equivalents 147,133 164,231 b Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash ows from operating activities 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $000 $000 profit for the year 199,038 193,993 Add less non-cash items: Depreciation amortisation of property, plant and equipment 35,637 18,642 Stock write-off 20 295 Increase in provisions 7,159 171 Foreign exchange rate gain, net 4,320 584 Listed shares - unrealized gain - 93 Share of loss in associate 330 - Share based payments 1,981 1,496 Changes in working capital during the period: Increase in trade and other receivables 10,738 29,870 Increase in inventories 22,005 34,612 Decrease in prepayments 1,110 1,116 Increase in trade and other payables 13,193 6,508 221,405 154,830 Cash ows generated from operating activities c Non-cash nancing and investing activities During the year there have been no non-cash nancing and investing activities.
During the prior year 3,038,631 ordinary shares valued at US$4.2 million and cash of US$6.2 million totalling US$10,413,000 as per Note 13 and were issued paid to the owners of Sheba Exploration Holdings Limited previously, Sheba Exploration UK plc as consideration for the acquisition of interests in four exploration licences in Ethiopia.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS a Group risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the cash and equity balance.
The Groups overall strategy remains unchanged from the previous financial period.
The Group has no debt and thus not geared at year-end or in the prior year.
The capital structure consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital and reserves as disclosed in Notes 17 and 18.
The Group operates in Australia, London, Jersey, Egypt and Ethiopia.
None of the Groups entities are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
The Group utilises inows of funds toward the ongoing exploration and development of the Sukari Gold Project in Egypt.
Categories of financial assets and liabilities: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 $000 $000 Financial assets Available for sale assets 5,613 1,831 Cash and cash equivalents 147,133 164,231 Trade and other receivables 40,736 29,998 193,482 196,060 Financial liabilities Other financial liabilities - - Trade and other payables 54,606 24,509 54,606 24,509 b Financial risk management and objectives The Groups overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential risk adverse effects and ensure that net cash ows are sufficient to support the delivery of the Groups financial targets whilst protecting future financial security.
The Group continually monitors and tests its forecast financial position against these objectives.
The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market: commodity: credit: liquidity: foreign exchange: and interest rate.
These risks are managed under Board approved directives through the Audit Committee.
The Groups principal financial instruments comprise interest bearing cash and cash equivalents.
Other financial instruments include trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from operations.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, Group policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments be undertaken.
129 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 26.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued c Market risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the Australian dollar.
Great British pound and Egyptian pound.
Exposure to Canadian dollars has diminished considerably when compared to prior periods.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities that are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
The risk is measured by regularly monitoring, forecasting and performing sensitivity analyses on the Groups financial position.
Financial instruments denominated in Great British pound, Australian dollar and Egyptian pound are as follows: Great British Pound Australian dollar Egyptian Pound 31 31 31 31 31 31 December December December December December December 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,055 3,046 21,963 31,567 3,648 7,713 Available for sale assets 4,062 - 1,550 1,831 - - 5,117 3,046 23,513 33,398 3,648 7,713 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 6,585 211 11,361 671 6,268 27,594 6,585 211 11,361 671 6,268 27,594 1,468 2,835 12,152 32,727 2,620 19,881 Net exposure The following table summarises the sensitivity of financial instruments held at the reporting date to movements in the exchange rate of the Great British and Egyptian pounds and Australian dollar to the United States dollar, with all other variables held constant.
The sensitivities are based on reasonably possible changes over a financial period, using the observed range of actual historical rates.
Impact on profit Impact on equity 31 31 31 31 December December December December 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$ GB increase by 10% 133 108 155 108 US$ GB decrease by 10% 133 108 155 108 US$ A$ increase by 10% 1,105 2,961 144 2,961 1,105 2,961 144 2,961 US$ A$ decrease by 10% US$ E increase by 10% 238 127 - 127 US$ E decrease by 10% 238 127 - 127 The Groups sensitivity to foreign currency has decreased at the end of the current period mainly due to the decrease in foreign currency cash holdings in Australian dollars and Great British pounds and a corresponding increase in US dollar cash holdings.
The Group has not entered into forward foreign exchange contracts.
Natural hedges are utilised wherever possible to offset foreign currency liabilities.
The Company maintains a policy of not hedging its currency positions and maintains currency holdings in line with underlying requirements and commitments.
130 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 d Commodity price risk The Groups future revenue forecasts are exposed to commodity price uctuations, in particular gold prices.
The Group has not entered into forward gold hedging contracts.
e Interest rate risk The Groups main interest rate risk arises from cash and short term deposits and is not considered to be a material risk due to the short term nature of these financial instruments.
Cash deposits are placed on term period of no more than 30 days at a time.
The financial instruments exposed to interest rate risk and the Groups exposure to interest rate risk as at balance date were as follows: Weighted Average Effective Less than 1 Interest Rate month 1-12 months 12 months Total % US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Consolidated 31 December 2012 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 0.64 33,251 111,898 - 145,149 Non-interest bearing - 48,333 - - 48,333 81,584 111,898 - 193,482 Financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments - - - - - Non-interest bearing - 54,606 - - 54,606 54,606 - - 54,606 31 December 2011 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 0.75 - 147,970 - 147,970 Non-interest bearing - 16,261 - - 16,261 16,261 147,970 - 164,231 Financial liabilities -- - - - Variable interest rate instruments -24,323 1,346 - 25,669 Non-interest bearing 24,323 1,346 - 25,669 131 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 f Liquidity risk The Groups liquidity position is managed to ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet its financial commitments in a timely and cost effective manner.
Ultimate responsibility or liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, who has established an appropriate management framework for the management of the Groups funding requirements.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity on the basis of expected cash ow.
The tables above reect a balanced view of cash inows and outows and shows the implied risk based on those values.
Trade payables and other financial liabilities originate from the nancing of assets used in the Groups on-going operations.
These assets are considered in the Groups overall liquidity risk.
Management continually reviews the Group liquidity position including cash ow forecasts to determine the forecast liquidity position and maintain appropriate liquidity levels.
Less than Liquidity risk: 1 month 1-12 months 12 months Total Consolidated 31 December 2012 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 33,251 111,898 - 145,149 Non-interest bearing 48,333 - - 48,333 81,584 111,898 - 193,482 Financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments - - - - Non-interest bearing 54,606 - - 54,606 54,606 - - 54,606 31 December 2011 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments - 147,970 - 147,970 Non-interest bearing 16,261 - - 16,261 16,261 147,970 - 164,231 Financial liabilities ---- Variable interest rate instruments 24,323 1,346 - 25,670 Non-interest bearing 24,323 1,346 - 25,670 132 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 g Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counter-party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with credit-worthy counter-parties and obtaining sufficient collateral or other security where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults.
The Group measures credit risk on a fair value basis.
The Groups credit risk is concentrated on one entity, but the Group has good credit checks on customers and none of the trade receivables from the customer has been past due.
Also, the cash balances held in Canadian and Australian dollars which are held with a financial institution with a high credit rating.
The gross carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk without taking account of the value of collateral or other security obtained.
h Fair value The carrying amount of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the financial statements represents their respective fair values, principally as a consequence of the short term maturity thereof.
i Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: s Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: s Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and s Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Available for sale financial assets 5,613 - - 5,613 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Available for sale financial assets 1,831 - - 1,831 There were no financial assets or liabilities subsequently measured at fair value on Level 3 fair value measurement bases.
133 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 Further details of the EDLFSP and ELFSP can be found 27.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS in the Notice of General Meeting for the shareholder Employee Share Option Plan ESOP meeting held on Tuesday, 15 February 2011, and full copies of the plan are available upon request.
The consolidated entity had an Employee Share Option Plan ESOP in place for executives and employees.
Further details of the performance conditions can be Options were issued to key management personnel found in the remuneration report.
under the Employee Option Plan 2006 previously 2011 Employee Option Scheme the Employee Option Plan 2002 as part of their remuneration.
Options were offered to key management Options were issued under the 2011 Option Scheme personnel at the discretion of the Directors, having EOS made in accordance with thresholds set in plans regard, among other things, to the length of service approved by shareholders at the Extraordinary General with the consolidated entity, the past and potential Meeting of Shareholders on 14 December 2011.
All contribution of the person to the consolidated entity employees of the Group other than directors shall be and in some cases, individual performance.
Each share able to participate in the 2011 EOS.
The Committee option converts into one ordinary share of the Company shall select from time to time from such group the actual on exercise.
The options carry neither rights to dividends participants in the 2011 EOS.
nor voting rights and are not transferable.
Options vest The 2011 EOS provides for employees other than over a period of 12 months, with 50% vesting and Directors to receive up to an annual aggregate of options exercisable after six months and the other 50% vesting over ordinary shares, with an exercise price calculated and exercisable after 12 months of issue.
All options by either the volume weighted average closing price of are issued with a term of three years.
At the discretion Ordinary Shares sold on an exchange for the five trading of the Directors part or all of the options issued to an days most recently preceding the day as at which the executive or employee may be subject to performance market value is calculated or if market value is required based hurdles.
No performance based hurdles have to be determined in another manner or another amount been applied for options granted to date.
Upon exercise for the purposes of tax legislation in another jurisdiction, of the options the ordinary shares received rank equally then the value is so determined at the date of issue.
with the existing ordinary shares.
No options have been The ability to exercise the options is conditional on the offered under the ESOP in 2011 or 2012.
Group achieving its performance hurdles.
For the initial grants to be made under the 2011 EOS it is the current Executive Directors Loan Funded Share Plan intention that the performance criteria will be the TSR EDLFSP & Employee Loan Funded Share Plan performance criteria as detailed in the 2011 Executive ELFSP LFSP.
Further details of the performance conditions can Shares were issued to Executive Directors under the be found in the remuneration report.
Executive Directors Loan Funded Share Plan EDLFSP Under the 2011 EOS the exercise price of the options 2011 and Employees under the ELFSP as part of their is denominated in pound sterling.
All options expire remuneration package.
on the earlier of their expiry date or termination of the Under the terms of the EDLFSP and ELFSP, the individuals employment.
Company has provided a limited recourse and interest free loan to certain employees of the Company for the Deferred Bonus Share Plan purpose of acquiring the New Shares the Loan.
The During the year the Company implemented a Deferred purchase of the shares has been funded by the Loan Bonus Share Plan DBSP which is a long term share and the shares will not vest until certain performance incentive arrangement for senior management but not conditions are met.
In the event the performance executive directors and other employees participants.
conditions are not met, or the shares are forfeited by Under the DBSP, the Board shall, at its absolute discretion, the participant, the Company can either re-acquire the require such eligible participants to defer up to one shares or direct the trustee to sell them on, offsetting hundred per cent 100% of their bonus opportunity and the proceeds against the outstanding loan amount such eligible participants shall not be paid their deferred and waiving the remainder of the loan.
Subject to bonus in cash but shall instead be granted a Deferred performance conditions and time based hurdles being Bonus Award over such number of Shares provided that met, the loan will be repayable by the relevant employee the eligible participant remains in employment on the in full on the earlier of the termination date of the loan date of grant effectively the vesting date.
The award of three years from the date of issue or the date on which the deferred shares will not have any performance criteria the shares are disposed of.
They will however be subject to a service period.
134 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 The total share-based payment charge relating to Centamin plc shares for the year is split as follows: 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 2011 EOS 110 - LFSP 1,650 1,496 DBSP 221 - 1,981 1,496 LFSP awards and EOS options granted during the year: The fair value of the share-based payments awarded under the LFSP and granted under the 2011 EOS was measured by the use of the Black and Scholes model where share-based payments have non-market based performance conditions.
Where share-based payments are subject to market conditions, fair value was measured by the use of a Monte-Carlo simulation.
The Monte-Carlo simulation has been used to model the Companys share prices against the performance of the chosen comparator group and the FTSE 250 at the relevant vesting dates.
2 Variable vesting dependent on one to three years of continuous employment and, for certain series, market based performance conditions being achieved.
3 The expected volatility of Centamin and each company in the chosen comparator group and the FTSE 250 Index Companies FTSE 250 has been calculated using approximately 2 years of historical price data.
4 The expected rate of return used in the valuations for Centamin and other UK comparator companies was set to equal the UK government bond rate with a yield-to-maturity that is equivalent to the tenor of the Options.
When modelling the share price of Canadian comparator companies, the Canadian government bond rate was used.
135 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 27.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Deferred share awards granted during the year: DBSP 2012 Grant date 11 October 2012 Number of instruments 1,000,000 Share price at grant date 1.0060 Share price at grant date US$ 1.6265 1 Vesting period years 1-3 Expected dividend yield % n a 2 Fair value 1.0060 2 Fair value US$ 1.6265 1 Variable vesting dependent on one to three years of continuous employment.
2 The fair value of shares in the DBSP was calculated by using the closing share price on grant date, converted at the closing :US$ foreign exchange rate on that day, no other factors were taken into account in determining the fair value.
The following table reconciles the outstanding share options granted under the Employee Share Option Plan at the beginning and end of the reporting period: 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 US$ US$ Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise options price options price Balance at beginning of the period 1,630,150 1.20 3,325,150 1.2432 Granted during the period a - - - - Expired Lapsed during the period b 1,630,150 1.9228 350,000 1.8658 Exercised during the period - - 1,345,000 1.1334 --1,630,150 1.20 Balance at the end of the period c --1,630,150 1.20 Exercisable at the end of the period The following table reconciles the outstanding share options granted under 2011 Employee Option Scheme, at the beginning and end of the reporting period: 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 US$ US$ Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise options price options price Balance at beginning of the period ---- Granted during the period a 1,550,000 1.0718 - - Expired Lapsed during the period b 150,000 1.0730 - - Exercised during the period - - - - 1,400,000 1.0716 - - Balance at the end of the period c 1,400,000 1.0716 - - Exercisable at the end of the period 136 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 The following reconciles the outstanding share options granted under the EDLFSP and ELFSP at the beginning and end of the reporting period: 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 US$ US$ Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise options price options price Balance at beginning of the period 7,472,222 2.00547 - - Granted during the period a 5,100,000 1.0730 9,967,500 2.01195 Expired Lapsed during the period b 2,435,000 1.8169 2,495,278 2.03138 Exercised during the period - - - - 10,137,222 1.5808 7,472,222 2.00547 Balance at the end of the period c 275,000 1.9435 - - Exercisable at the end of the period The following reconciles the outstanding share awards granted under the DBSP at the beginning and end of the reporting period: 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Number of Number of awards awards Balance at beginning of the period - - Granted during the period 1,000,000 - Expired Lapsed during the period - - Exercised during the period - - 1,000,000 - Balance at the end of the period -- Exercisable at the end of the period 28.
KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL COMPENSATION Key management personal are persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any director executive or otherwise of the Group.
The aggregate compensation made to key management personnel of the consolidated entity and the Company is set out below: Consolidated 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$ US$ Short-term employee benets 7,916,848 2,257,547 Long-term employee benets 116,226 40,216 Post-employment benets 78,295 33,215 Share-based payments 1,209,491 1,495,506 9,320,860 3,826,484 Total 137 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 29.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS a Equity interests in related parties Equity interests in subsidiaries Details of the percentage of ordinary shares held in subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 21.
Equity interests in associates and joint ventures Details of interests in joint ventures are disclosed in Note 23. b Key management personnel compensation Details of key management personnel compensation are disclosed below.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS c Key management personnel equity holdings continued Balance at Granted as Granted as Received on Balance at 1 January remuneration remuneration exercise of Net other 31 December Balance held 2 1 31 December 2011 2011 LFSP DBSP options change 2011 nominally J El-Raghy 69,195,086 1,000,000 - - 1,250,000 71,445,086 - H Michael - - - ---- T Schultz - 1,000,000 - 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 - C Cowden -- - ---- H Bottomley - - - ---- - - - - 50,000 50,000 - G Haslam M Arnesen - - - - 15,000 15,000 - M Bankes - - - - 60,000 60,000 - K Tomlinson - - - ---- - 600,000 - - 37,500 637,500 - P Louw M DiSilvio -- - ---- H Brown 250,000 225,000 - - - 475,000 - C Aujard -- - ---- Y El-Raghy -- - ---- 1 Net other change relates to the on market acquisition or disposal of fully paid ordinary share, including the forfeiture of shares awarded under the LFSP and DBSP.
2 includes shares held under LFSP DBSP 139 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 d Key management personnel share option holdings The details of the movement in key management personnel options to acquire ordinary shares in Centamin plc are as follows: Balance Balance vested and Balance at vested exercisable Balance at 31 during the at 31 1 January Granted as Other December financial December 31 December 2012 2012 remuneration Exercised changes 2012 period 2012 J El-Raghy -- ----- T Schultz - - - ---- G Haslam -- ----- M Arnesen - - ----- M Bankes -- ----- -- ----- K Tomlinson P Louw -- ----- A Pardey -- ----- H Brown - - ----- - 600,000 - - 600,000 - - C Aujard Y El-Raghy -- ----- A Davidson - 500,000 - - 500,000 - - Balance Balance vested and Balance at vested exercisable Balance at 31 during the at 31 1 January Granted as Other December financial December 31 December 2011 2011 remuneration Exercised changes 2011 period 2011 J El-Raghy ---- --- H Michael ---- --- C Cowden ---- --- H Bottomley ---- --- T Schultz 1,000,000 - 1,000,000 - - - - ---- --- G Haslam M Arnesen ---- --- M Bankes ---- --- K Tomlinson ---- --- ---- --- P Louw M Di Silvio 475,000 - 125,000 350,000 - - - H Brown ---- --- C Aujard ---- --- Y El-Raghy ---- --- Apart from the details disclosed in this note, no key management personnel has entered into a material contract with the Company or the economic entity since the end of the previous financial year and there were no material contracts involving key management personnel interests at year-end.
140 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 e Other transactions with key management 30.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS personnel As referred to in Note 20, the Group is involved in The related party transactions for the year ended on-going litigation in respect of the both the price at 31 December 2012 are summarised below: which Diesel Fuel Oil is supplied to the mine at Sukari 2 and the validity of the 160km exploitation lease.
Mr J El-Raghy is a director and shareholder of El-Raghy Kriewaldt Pty Ltd El-Raghy Kriewaldt.
Subsequent to year end the Company acquired El-Raghy Kriewaldt provides ofce premises to the a further interest in Nyota Minerals Limited and Sahar Company.
All dealings with El-Raghy Kriewaldt are Minerals Limited for US$1,163,969 and US$500,000 in the ordinary course of business and on normal respectively.
Rent and ofce outgoings Pursuant to the provisions of the Concession Agreement, paid to El-Raghy Kriewaldt during the period were any profit Share payments made to EMRA are due on A$21,499 or US$22,103 31 December 2011: an annual basis at the end of SGMs financial year, A$33,480 or US$32,192.
Based on the Companys calculation Mr C Cowden, a Non-Executive Director until his there was no profit Share due to EMRA as at 30 June resignation on 26 May 2011, was also a director 2012.
Furthermore, it is expected that there will be and shareholder of Cowden Limited, which provided profit Share due to EMRA for the current SGM financial insurance broking services to the Company.
year ending 30 June 2013, based on budgeted All dealings with Cowden Limited were on normal production, gold price and operating expense forecasts.
Cowden Limited was paid Following discussions with EMRA, and with a view to A$2,293 or US$2,397 during the period for which demonstrating goodwill toward the Egyptian government, Mr C Cowden was a related party during the year subsequent to year end PGM has made an advance ended 31 December 2011, with A$ 11,815 or payment to EMRA of US$8,200,000.
Calculations US$12,349 paid to Cowden Limited to be passed for profit Share will be done annually on the audited on to underwriters for premiums during the period accounts of SGM and this advance payment will be for which Mr C Cowden was a related party during netted off against any future profit Share that becomes the year ended 31 December 2011. payable to EMRA.
There were no other significant events occurring f Transactions with the Government of Egypt after the reporting date requiring disclosure in the Royalty costs attributable to the Government of Egypt Financial Statements.
of US$12,769,084 2011: US$13,360,000 were incurred in 2012. g Transactions with other related parties Other related parties include the parent entity, subsidiaries, and other related parties.
During the prior financial period, the Company recognised tax payable in respect of the tax liabilities of its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Payments to from the Company are made in accordance with terms of the tax funding arrangement.
During the financial period the Company provided funds to and received funding from subsidiaries.
All amounts advanced to related parties are unsecured.
No expense has been recognised in the period for bad or doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties.
Transactions and balances between the Company and its subsidiaries were eliminated in the preparation of consolidated financial statements of the Group.
