154 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Appendix to the Directors Report otHer statutorY information Management report existing and new build British Energy nuclear power stations and The Directors Report for the year can be found on pages 5 to 75 to invest in new build nuclear power stations.
As part of these and pages 146 to 154.
The management report for the year, as arrangements, on a change of control of Centrica, the Group required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, is loses its rights to participate on the Boards of the companies incorporated by reference within the Directors Report.
in which it has invested and on Technical Committees for new nuclear development.
Furthermore, where the acquirer is not Major acquisitions and disposals located in certain specified countries, EDF Group is able to Full details of acquisitions and disposals are disclosed in the require Centrica to sell out its investments.
Business Review on pages 5 to 50 and notes 30 and 31 to the Charitable and political donations Financial Statements on pages 119 and 120.
During the year, the Group made cash charitable donations to Events after the balance sheet date support the community of 5.5 million 2011: 1.8 million.
Total Events after the balance sheet date are disclosed in note 36 to community contributions and related activities on community the Financial Statements on page 123. support are described in the Appendix to the Directors Report on page 151.
Centricas political donations policy states that Centrica Related party transactions operates on a politically neutral basis.
No donations were made Related party transactions are set out in note 34 to the Financial by the Group for political purposes during the year.
However, Statements on page 122. in accordance with the Federal Election Campaign Act, Direct Creditor payment policy Energy has authorised the establishment of a Political Action It is the Groups policy to: Committee PAC, to facilitate voluntary political contributions by its US employees.
The PAC is not controlled by Centrica and agree the terms of payment in advance with the supplier: contributions from the fund are determined by a governing board ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: and of PAC members.
Participation in the PAC is voluntary for eligible pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
In 2012, contributions to the PAC by employees The number of days purchases outstanding as at 31 December amounted to US$10,900.
The PAC made 19 political donations 2012 was 33 2011: 33 for the Group excluding Centrica Energy totalling US$7,500.
Limited and 32 2011: 30 for the Company.
Share capital Essential contractual arrangements The Company was authorised at the 2012 AGM to allot shares The Group has contractual and other arrangements with within certain limits and as permitted by the Companies Act.
Whilst the loss of, or disruption to, certain A renewal of this authority will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
of these arrangements could affect the operations of the Group The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2012, temporarily, this Annual Report does not contain information together with details of shares issued during the year, is set about these third parties as none of the arrangements are out in note 26 to the Financial Statements on page 115. considered to be essential to the Groups business.
Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote.
Further Significant agreements change of control information on the voting and other rights of shareholders are set The following are significant agreements to which the Company is out in the Articles and in the explanatory notes which accompany party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change notices of general meetings, all of which are available on the of control in the Company following a takeover bid: Companys website.
as part of the demerger in 1997, BG Group plc which is a Authority to purchase shares separately listed company and not a part of the Centrica Group The Company was authorised at the 2012 AGM to purchase assigned ownership of the British Gas trade marks and related its own shares, within certain limits and as permitted by the logos to Centrica for use in Great Britain.
BG Group plc has the Articles.
A renewal of this authority will be proposed at the right to call for a re-assignment of this intellectual property if 2013 AGM.
Shares repurchased may be cancelled or retained control of Centrica is acquired by a third party: and as treasury shares to accommodate requirements for shares in 2009, Centrica entered into certain transactions with EDF under the Groups share incentive schemes.
No shares were Group in relation to an investment in British Energy, an owner and purchased under this authority during 2012, however, on operator of nuclear power stations in the UK.
The transactions 4 February 2013 the Company announced a 500 million include rights for EDF Group and Centrica to offtake power from share repurchaseprogramme.
Material shareholdings At 31 December 2012 Centrica had received notification of the following material shareholdings pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: 31 December 2012 Ordinary % of share Nature shares capital of holding Invesco Limited 258,200,185 4.97% Indirect Legal & General Group 201,705,927 3.88% Direct No changes have been disclosed in accordance with these rules in the period 31 December 2012 to 27 February 2013.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 155 Shareholder Information Contents 156 Financial Calendar 1 5 7 Shareholder Information 1 6 1 Glossar y 163 Index 156 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Shareholder Information financial calendar 2013-2014 12 June 2013 24 April 2013 Payment date for 2012 final Ex-dividend date for dividend 16 October 2013 February 2014 2012 final dividend 17 June 2013 Last date for DRIP Preliminary 26 April 2013 DRIP statements despatched elections for the Results Record date for to shareholders for the 2012 2013 interim announcement 2012 final dividend final dividend DRIP purchase dividend for 2013 apr May jun jul aug sep oct nov dec jan feb 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2014 2014 13 May 2013 31 July 2013 25 September 2013 13 November 2013 AGM, Queen Elizabeth II 2013 Half Year Ex-dividend date Payment date for 2013 interim Conference Centre, London Results for 2013 interim dividend SW1 2pm dividend 14 November 2013 and Q1 Interim Management 27 September 2013 Q3 Interim Management Statement Record date for Statement 15 May 2013 2013 interim 18 November 2013 Last date for DRIP elections for dividend DRIP statements despatched the 2012 final dividend to shareholders for the 2013 interim dividend DRIP purchase Provisional dates Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 157 Shareholder Information sHareHolder information Centrica FlexiShare Managing your shares FlexiShare is an easy way to hold Centrica shares without a share Please contact our Registrar, Equiniti, to manage your certificate.
Your shares would be held in a nominee company, shareholding.
Information is also available through the Equiniti Corporate Nominees Limited, however you are able to Shareholder Centre on our website, including frequently asked attend and vote at general meetings as if the shares were held in questions and forms available to download to help you to: your own name.
Holding your shares in this way is free and comes transfer your shares: with a number of benefits: change your registered name or address: low cost share-dealing rates, full details of which are available register a lost share certificate and obtain a replacement: on the Shareholder Centre together with dealing charges: quicker settlement periods for buying and selling shares: and consolidate your share certificates: manage your dividend payments: the opportunity to join the Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
Dividends buy, sell or transfer shares through Centrica FlexiShare: Dividends on Centrica shares are usually paid in June and notify the death of a shareholder: and November.
Details of the dividends for the year ended 31 December 2012 can be found in note 10 to the Financial register for electronic communications.
You can also manage your shareholding online by registering for Shareview via the electronic communications section of the You are encouraged to have your dividends paid directly to your Shareholder Centre.
bank or building society account.
This means that you will receive the money on the day it is paid which avoids any risk of missing When contacting Equiniti or registering online, you should have cheques.
If you do choose to receive your dividends in this way, your shareholder reference number at hand.
This can be found on a consolidated tax voucher will be sent to you in March each year.
your share certificate or dividend tax voucher.
If you do not have a UK bank or building society account, Equiniti If you hold less than 2,500 shares, you will be able to change your are able to pay dividends in local currencies in over 30 countries.
registered address or set up a dividend mandate instruction over For a small fee, you could have your dividends converted from the phone.
For security, if you hold more than 2,500 shares, you sterling and paid into your designated bank account, usually will need to put this in writing.
within five days of the dividend being paid.
Please note, if you receive more than one copy of documents that Buying and selling shares with a share certificate we send you, it is likely that you have more than one account on If you wish to buy or sell Centrica shares and hold a share the share register, perhaps with a slightly different name or certificate, you can do this: address.
If you write to Equiniti and give them the shareholder by using the services of a stockbroker or high street bank: or reference numbers, they will be able to combine your accounts into one.
through telephone or online services.
We work with a specialist tracing agency, ProSearch, to identify In order to sell your shares in this way, you will need to present shareholders whose details are not up to date and who have your share certificate at the time of sale.
Please notify Equiniti when you move house to ensure you continue to receive all our communications.
manaGe more online You can view and manage your shareholding online.
Go to the electronic communications section of the inteGrated enerGY shareholder centre on our website at What it means to us How we achieve it centrica.
158 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Shareholder Information sHareHolder information continued Shareholder communication Share repurchase programme Changes in legislation have meant it is now possible for us to On 4 February 2013, the Company announced it would launch communicate to a greater extent with shareholders using our a 500 million share repurchase programme over the next website.
We strongly encourage our shareholders to receive 12 months.
Further information is available from the Shareholder communications electronically as it allows us to make Centre on our website.
considerable savings, both environmentally and financially, American Depository Receipts ADR and allows you to: We have an ADR programme, trading under the symbol CPYYY.
view the Annual Report and Annual Review on the day they Centricas ratio is one ADR being equivalent to four ordinary arepublished: shares.
Further information is available from the Shareholder Centre or please contact: receive an email alert when shareholder communications areavailable: ADR Depositary The Bank of New York Mellon Shareowner Services cast your AGM vote: and PO Box 358516, Pittsburgh, PA manage your shareholding quickly and securely.
com shareowner In April 2012, together with Equiniti, we introduced an electronic Telephone: 1-888-269-2377 toll-free in the US or queries service to enable our shareholders to manage their 1 201-680-6825 from outside the US investment 24 7.
Since then Equiniti have: Website: adrbnymellon.
com addressed 2,000 queries using the electronic queries service: ShareGift handled over 19,500 calls: and It may be that you have a small number of shares which would cost you more to sell these than they are worth.
It is possible completed 150,000 transactions.
to donate these to ShareGift, a registered charity, who provide Details of this service can be found at shareview.
a free service to enable you to dispose charitably of such shares.
More information on this service can be obtained from A wealth of other information is available on our website, including: sharegift.
org or call 44 0 207 930 3737. regular updates about our business: Centrica share history comprehensive share price information: Centricas shares were first traded on the London Stock Exchange on 17 February 1997 following the demerger from financial results: and British Gas plc.
Since then there have been three events affecting dividend payment dates and amounts.
the share capital, as shown below, with full details available from Equiniti and on our website: 1999 share consolidation: 2004 share consolidation: and 2008 rights issue.
Contact details for our registrar contact Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, United Kingdom eQuiniti Telephone: 0871 384 2985 and outside the UK 44 121 415 7061 Textphone: 0871 384 2255 and outside the UK 44 121 415 7028 Online: https: help.
co. uk Calls to this number cost 8 pence per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday, UK time.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 159 Shareholder Information Beware of share fraudsters shareholders are cautioned to be 200 million very wary of any unsolicited advice, The Financial Services Authority FSA report that such scams cost investors in excess of 200 million offers to buy shares at a discount, sell each year.
your shares at a premium or offers of free company reports.
If you do receive such an approach, you are encouraged to take Centrica is aware that some of its shareholders have recently the following steps: received unsolicited phone calls or letters from individuals or companies offering to buy or sell Centrica shares on very obtain the full name of the person and organisation and make favourable terms.
These communications imply a connection a record of any other information they give you, for example with Centrica and are often from overseas based brokers who telephone number, address, web address: are very persuasive and extremely persistent, with professional if the caller persists, simply hang up: and websites to support their activities.
report the matter to the FSA so that they can investigate.
You are able to do this online at fsa.
uk consumerinformation scamsandswindles or by calling them on 0845 606 1234.
You are advised to deal only with financial services firms that are authorised by the FSA.
Check the firm is properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting fsa.
If you do deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme if anything goes wrong.
Details of any share-dealing services that Centrica endorses are available on our website and are included in Company mailings.
Accessibility financial services If you would like this Annual Report in an alternative format, such as large print, Braille or CD, you can request these in the following ways: autHoritY Telephone: 0800 111 4371 Textphone: 18001 0800 111 4371 Please note that these numbers should be used to request copies of alternative formats only.
For general shareholder enquiries, please use the Centrica shareholder helpline Check if financial services firms 0871 384 2985. are authorised by the FSA by Calls to this number cost 8 pence per minute plus network extras.
online This Annual Report can be viewed online.
To see more go to centrica.
com report2012 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 161 GlossarY $ Refers to US dollars unless specified otherwise 1 year Less than 1 year 1 year Greater than 1 year 2P Proven and probable AFS Available-for-sale AGR Advanced gas-cooled reactor Associate An entity in which the Group has an equity interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significantinfluence bbl Barrels of oil BCF Billion cubic feet CER Certified emissions reduction carbon emissions certificate CERT Carbon emissions reduction target CGU Cash generating unit CPI Consumer Price Index DECC Department of Energy and Climate Change DPS Total dividend per share excluding special dividends paid in respect of each financial year EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EMIR European Market Infrastructure Regulation Employee Individuals perception of different components within an organisation, which in turn has a measurable impact on engagement business performance EMR Energy Market Reform EPS Earnings per share.
This measure of performance is calculated as profit before other costs and depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from strategic investments and exceptional items and certain re-measurements for the year, attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year EUA European Union allowance carbon emissions certificate FSA Financial Services Authority FTSE 100 Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 share index, an average of share prices in the 100 largest, most actively traded companies on the London Stock Exchange FVLCS Fair value less costs to sell g CO2 kWh Grammes of carbon dioxide per kilowatt hour GFRMC Group Financial Risk Management Committee GWh Gigawatt hour IAS 19 The International Accounting Standard related to Employee Benefits.
These financial reporting rules include requirements related to pension accounting IAS 39 The International Accounting Standard related to financial instruments recognition & measurement IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard Jointly controlled A joint venture which involves the establishment of an entity to engage in economic activity, which the Group entity controls jointly with its fellow venturers kWh Kilowatt hour Level 1 Fair value is determined using observable inputs that reflect unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets and liabilities, for example exchange-traded commodity contracts valued using close-of-day settlement prices.
The adjusted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price Level 2 Fair value is determined using significant inputs that may be either directly observable inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data, for example over-the-counter energy contracts within the active period valued using broker-quotes or third-party pricing services and foreign exchange or interest rate derivatives valued using market-based data Level 3 Fair value is determined using significant unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data and may be used with internally developed methodologies that result in managements best estimate of fair value, for example energy contracts within the inactive period valued using in-house valuation techniques LNG Liquefied natural gas LTIFR Long term injury frequency rate previously referred to as LTIR.
A lost time injury is defined as an incident arising out of Centricas operations which leads to an injury where the employee or contractor is not available to work for one day or more, excluding the day that the injury occurs 162 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 GlossarY continued MiFID Markets in Financial Instruments Directive mmboe Million barrels of oil equivalent mmth Million therms MWh Megawatt hour NBV Net book value NGO Non-governmental organisation NPS Net Promoter Score.
NPS measures customer advocacy by responses to the question How likely would you be to recommend us 010 scale ?
The score is calculated by the percentage of customers defined as promoters scoring 910 minus the percentage defined as detractors 06 PP&E Property, plant and equipment Process safety A significant process safety event is an uncontrolled release of flammable gas, steam or hot water under pressure causing a major injury or fatality: or the uncontrolled release of an environmentally hazardous substance causing significant impairment of sensitive receivers PRT Petroleum revenue tax RMR Retail Market Review ROC Renewable obligation certificate RPI Retail Price Index SCT Supplementary charge associated with UK Corporation Tax Securities Comprised of Treasury gilts designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition and available-for-sale financial assets.
The fair values of securities are based on quoted market prices, when available.
If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are estimated using observable market data Spark spread The difference between the price of a unit of electricity and the cost of the gas used to generate it TSR Total shareholder return measures the return to shareholders in terms of the growth of a 100 investment in the Companys shares, assuming that dividends and returns of capital are reinvested.
It means constantly exploring new ways to source, procure and generate an affordable supply of energy.
It means integrating innovation and technology into the home, giving our customers access to energy and services, whenever they need it.
It means working with governments, regulators and partners to make the right things happen at the right time.
Most important of all, it means empowering our customers to take control of their energy needs as we work towards a low carbon future.
This report is printed on Revive 100 Silk which is made from 100% recycled postconsumer fibre that is Totally Chlorine Free.
This paper has been independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
onlIne Designed and produced by Integrated energy Photography by David Hares, Mike what it means to us Abrahams, Igor Emmerich, Charlie Fawell how we achieve it Disclaimer and David Partner.
This Annual Report and Accounts does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for, or otherwise acquire or dispose of any Centrica shares or other securities.
Printed by CPI Colour Limited Use your smartphone or tablet This Annual Report and Accounts contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral.
condition, results, operations and businesses of Centrica plc.
These statements and forecasts involve risk and to scan this QR code for instant uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or access to the Centrica Annual implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.
Report 2012 online Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult an independent financial adviser.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Integrated energy CentrICa plC Registered office: Millstream, Maidenhead Road, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 5GD Company registered in England Annual Report and Accounts 2012 and Wales No.
com Integrated energy Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Integrated energy Is what we do.
onlIne Integrated energy what it means to us how we achieve it Use your smartphone or tablet to scan this QR code for instant access to the Centrica Annual Report 2012 online Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 1 Introduction Summary Governance You can find here a short summary of our business Read here a summary of our corporate governance together with the Groups financial performance.
2 Centrica at a Glance 42 Summary Corporate Governance Report 4 Performance Highlights 43 Summary Remuneration Report Business Review Appendix We discuss here how we have delivered our vision and The Directors biographies can be found here.
strategy in 2012 and take the opportunity to introduce 46 Biographies of the Board of Directors and the next step of our strategic direction.
Senior Executives 5 Chairmans Statement 9 Chief Executives Review 9 Marketplace 1 0 Our vision and strategic priorities 1 2 Our business model 1 4 Review of the year 18 Key Performance Indicators 20 Our Businesses 22 Operating Review 36 Corporate Responsibility Review 38 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Summary Financial Statements Shareholder Information Here you can find the summarised Group Financial If you need help with managing your shareholding or Statements.
you want to know more about our financial calendar and share register, then this information can be found 40 Summary Financial Statements here.
40 Summary Group Income Statement 41 Summary Group Balance Sheet 48 Shareholder Information 41 Summary Group Statement of Changes in Equity 41 Group Cash Flow Statement delIverIng oUr oUr Integrated vIsIon BUsIness Model See how we deliver at every Read about our strategic stage of the energy chain priorities on page 10 on page 12 S E I l T E E I d R C O A O I l P m P R P A P A A P S G G T G 2 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Introduction CentrICa at a glanCe The markets we operate in Our strategic priorities Our business model The energy world is constantly We have refreshed our strategy to A resilient, integrated business evolving.
ensure we deliver our vision.
model is key to our success.
downstreaM Innovate to drive we soUrCe It British Gas is the leading residential by finding and developing new gas growth and service energy and services provider in reserves across the world.
Britain and Direct Energy is one of excellence North Americas largest energy and we generate It energy related services providers.
through our fleet of gas-fired power stations and wind farms.
Integrate our natural UpstreaM gas business, linked to Centrica Energy has upstream we proCess It gas and oil operations in the UK, at our onshore gas terminals, making our core markets Norway, the Netherlands, North it safe for our customers to use.
America and Trinidad and Tobago.
The Company also owns gas-fired we store It InCrease our returns power stations and has interests in at our Rough storage field, the largest nuclear and renewable generation through efficiency gas storage facility in the UK.
Centrica Storage operates and continued capital more than 70% of the UKs total gas we trade It storage capacity.
Securing discipline in the UK, North America and Europe our customers energy needs, to secure gas and power for our sustainably and affordably, is at customers.
we sUpply It to our residential and commercial customers in the UK and North America.
we servICe It through our energy services and installation businesses.
we save It by offering a range of low carbon products and services to our customers.
E S E C E E I E 1 1 k 9 G 0 2 n R E I A S T u m A R B T S S y R T O I T l I A B C I S I S k d n S n I I O R P P E P P A A C l S A G G A n E G E Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 3 In troduction our vision is to be the leading integrated energy company with customers at our core Measuring our progress Responsibility Our principal risks Our key performance indicators The impact our business To achieve our priorities, we need monitor our progress and keep activities have on society and to be aware of the principal risks our focus on delivery.
We monitor our performance by Our corporate responsibility ambition The risks we face in a rapidly measuring and tracking key is to be the most trusted energy changing energy landscape continue performance indicators KPIs that company.
We need to be trusted to evolve over time.
A number of we believe are important to our by our customers, governments, measures helped to mitigate those longer-term success.
Long-term regulators and investors by effectively factors in 2012 while 2013 presents sustainable performance of these managing our social and environmental our organisation with more KPIs is linked to the remuneration impacts.
Robust governance and arrangements of our Executive foundation of stakeholder trust, we a clear risk strategy prepare us for Directors and senior executives.
can ensure long-term sustainable any uncertainties ahead.
fInanCIal kpIs prInCIpal rIsks Go to centrica.
com to see our Adjusted operating profit Health, safety, security and responsibility process in more detail.
environment Adjusted basic earnings per share Brand and reputation Total shareholder return Legislation and regulation Dividends per share Strategic growth non-fInanCIal kpIs Commodity costs Lost time injury frequency rate Change management Process safety Information security Customer trust People Employee engagement E P E A R 1 I 3 m 3 8 C 6 E 8 R T n O I A R f R R P O E P P R y O E C k 4 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Introduction perforManCe hIghlIghts Adjusted earnings Group revenue Dividend per share m bn pence 1,406 23.9 16.4 1,333 1,297 15.4 22.8 22.4 14.3 1,111 22.0 911 12.8 20.9 12.2 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 From continuing operations Adjusted earnings up 5% to 1,406 million: 27.1 pence adjusted basic EPS Statutory earnings 1,273 million Cooler weather saw average domestic gas consumption increase by 12% Centrica Energy and Direct Energy benefiting from enhanced scale Adjusted Group tax charge of 1.1 billion Share repurchase of 500 million announced and full year dividend up 6% 2.7 billion invested in 2012 2012 2011 Exceptional Exceptional Business items and certain Statutory Business items and certain Statutory performance re-measurements result performance re-measurements result m m m m m m Adjusted operating profit: British Gas 1,093 1,005 Centrica Energy 1,230 1,023 Centrica Storage 89 75 Direct Energy 331 312 Total adjusted operating profit 2,743 2,415 Depreciation of fair value uplifts from Strategic Investments, before tax 96 105 Interest and taxation on joint ventures and associates 85 102 Group operating profit 2,562 63 2,625 2,208 794 1,414 Net interest expense 183 183 146 146 Taxation 1,029 140 1,169 810 16 826 Profit from continuing operations after taxation 1,350 77 1,273 1,252 810 442 Discontinued operations 13 34 21 Profit for the year 1,350 77 1,273 1,265 844 421 Depreciation of fair value uplifts from Strategic Investments, after taxation 56 68 Adjusted earnings 1,406 1,333 Unless otherwise stated, all references to operating profit or loss, taxation and earnings numbers throughout the report are adjusted figures, as reconciled to their statutory equivalents in the table above.
Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 5 Business Review Chairmans Statement ChaIrMans stateMent Centrica is one of the Uks most important companies Sir Roger Carr Chairman their energy usage, and to support Upstream we invested around 2 billion our strategic vision is to customers with free insulation to reduce in helping secure gas supplies for the UK.
In parallel, we achieved first power from be the leading integrated our Lincs offshore wind farm and worked A relentless focus on cost management with our partners in extending the life of energy company, with helped British Gas implement the lowest our existing nuclear fleet.
We took the tariff increase of all the major energy customers at our core.
decision not to participate in new nuclear suppliers, necessitated by higher construction with EDF due to higher wholesale energy costs, Government anticipated costs and a lengthened driven green energy costs and the Review of the year construction schedule.
This will enable us imposition of additional infrastructure It is now three years since we defined to return some of the capital we had raised charges.
Nevertheless, the very real our strategic objectives to build a more for this purpose through a 500 million concerns of hard pressed consumers, sustainable, vertically integrated, cost share repurchase programme.
fuelled by external commentary, has effective and customer focused business impacted public trust in the industry In North America, a carefully executed with meaningful geographic diversity.
and in British Gas as the nations largest strategy of operational efficiencies, organic We were clear that to achieve this objective energy supplier inparticular.
growth and customer acquisition helped we would need to grow British Gas, us to further expand our business and acquire upstream assets on value creative Centrica is one of the UKs most important we are well on the way to doubling terms and expand the scale of our North companies, employing around 40,000 profitability since 2009.
With a change in American activity.
people, keeping homes warm and well lit, the centre of gravity in our North American securing future energy supplies, innovating I am pleased to confirm that in 2012 we activities we moved the corporate and investing and paying substantial demonstrated, through strong operational headquarters from Toronto to Houston amounts of tax to the Treasury each year.
performance and acquisition, our and our ambition to extend further our role We also have over 700,000 individual considerable progress in achieving in this market remains a strategic priority.
shareholders, all of whom benefit from the these strategic goals.
The impact of shale gas in North America dividends the Company pays.
Through our cannot be overstated and whilst its In the UK the year brought many larger shareholders, many of them pension immediate effect has been to lower challenges, with periods of colder weather funds, our dividends also feed into the wholesale gas prices in the US market, compared to the very mild conditions of retirement savings of millions of people.
there is no doubt it will influence global 2011 contributing to higher energy bills, It is important therefore that the Group energy markets over time.
and with material changes in the regulatory continues to grow and invest.
The management team increase in adjusted earnings we achieved Our strategic vision is to be the leading dealt with all of the turbulence with great in 2012 enabled us to invest more and to integrated energy company, with professionalism and commitment.
continue to grow our dividend in real customers at our core.
The importance of winning we achieve this must reflect the changes British Gas took the lead in simplifying tariffs recognition for our contribution to the in markets and sources of supply together and implemented changes consistent with UK economy and building public trust with a constant assessment of costs Ofgems proposals for retail market reform.
continue to be priority items on our agenda.
In parallel we continued to innovate with smart metering, to help consumers manage 6 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Business Review Chairmans Statement ChaIrMans stateMent ContInUed 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Our aim in 2013 and beyond will be to stepping down from his role as Managing Our Board members focus on three strategic priorities Director of British Gas, and Board member innovate to drive growth and service of Centrica, on 30 June 2013 and will leave 1.
Sir Roger Carr excellence, integrate our natural gas the Company by 31 December 2013.
Chairman business linked to our core markets and Phil Bentley has made a substantial increase our returns through efficiency 2.
Sam Laidlaw contribution to the development of the and continued capital discipline.
Chief Executive business, initially as Finance Director and for the last six years as Managing Director We will achieve these goals by 3.
Phil Bentley of British Gas.
differentiating our UK business through Managing Director, British Gas our systems and innovation to provide a In his most recent role he has been 4.
Margherita Della Valle competitive edge and investing upstream instrumental in restructuring, reinvigorating Non-Executive Director for value, while maintaining our structural and materially improving the performance hedge.
In North America we will grow our 5.
Mary Francis CBE of the business by raising customer customer base and service business and Senior Independent Director service, lowering costs and increasing seek to enhance our midstream and productivity.
As Chairman, and on behalf 6.
Mark Hanafin upstream position by acquisition when of the Board, I thank him for all that he has Managing Director, Centrica Energy strategic fit and returns are attractive.
achieved and wish him every success for 7.
Lesley Knox We believe that under the leadership the future.
Non-Executive Director of Sam Laidlaw we have developed a I am confident that the bench strength strong platform on which we can build a 8.
Nick Luff we enjoy, the mindset we have, the new rewarding future for both customers and Group Finance Director management structure and business shareholders.
This has been achieved model we have created will continue to 9.
Andrew Mackenzie with the considerable commitment of deliver strong cashflows, enabling us to Non-Executive Director the management team and the skills invest in customer service, supply security and enthusiastic support of colleagues 10.
Ian Meakins and shareholder reward.
on both sides of the Atlantic.
Non-Executive Director Corporate culture The period ahead will bring new 11.
Paul Rayner The Centrica business model is both challenges.
In order to ensure the Non-Executive Director wide ranging and complex, but its organisation of our management team is culture is simple and straightforward 12.
Chris Weston appropriate for the task ahead, with effect professionalism, openness and Managing Director, North America from 1 July 2013 the Group will migrate transparency in the way we do things, from a regional structure to an international Senior Executives together with integrity and honesty in functional structure.
Grant Dawson how we do them.
assume responsibility for downstream General Counsel & Company operations and Mark Hanafin will assume An organisation is dependent upon its Secretary responsibility for upstream operations management and structure for the 14.
Jill Shedden across the Group.
execution of strategy and its culture for Group Director, Human Resources the way in which its results are achieved.
After a successful career spanning 12 years with Centrica, Phil Bentley will be Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 7 Business Review Chairmans Statement SummARy GOvERnAnCE PAGE 42 BIOGRAPhIES PAGE 46 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 As a customer-facing business, respect In addition to normal business, the work nationals three are women and three men, for the individual, commitment to good of the Committees is supported by training three in full time executive employment and service and adherence to the highest sessions on topics of particular relevance three who have a number of non-executive standards of behaviour in the customers when Non-Executives require a more roles in both public and private companies.
homes or place of work are at the heart detailed understanding.
Training is given Our most recent appointments to the Board of what we do.
Our core values seek to by both members of the Centrica over the last 24 months have brought both ensure our people are welcome and management team and external advisors.
current operational experience and fresh trusted wherever theygo.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee is perspective, and reinvigorated the debate and discussion.
We employ around 40,000 people also informed by an external advisory body working in many countries and different of specialists in energy and consumer Diversity environments from offshore rigs, to affairs who are able to give objective Centrica is strongly committed to the onshore plants, in administrative locations, comment on policy, performance and merits of diversity in all its forms at Board on the road, in office premises and in governance standards of the Company level and throughout the Group.
Caring for the welfare from an outsiders perspective.
of our people wherever they are is our Twenty five percent of the Board are Each Committee reports to the Board absolute priority.
As a founding Chairman of the after every meeting to ensure a 30% Club, I have long believed that the In our health and safety policy no corners comprehensive briefing is given to attainment of any role must be by merit, may be cut, nor costs trimmed, if it is at Boardmembers on progress in all areas.
but that gender diversity can be an the expense of our people, customers, Board composition added value.
Centrica is committed to suppliers or contractors.
This message The Board comprises myself as Nonmaintaining its current level of women on is transmitted direct from the boardroom Executive Chairman and eleven other the Board and would increase the through management and reinforced in Directors of which six are Non-Executive.
percentage if the skills of the individual clear procedures, rigorous training and were appropriate and in keeping with the our incentive reward structure.
We have sought to ensure we have a business need.
This commitment is not balanced Board where individual merit and As a Board our focus is not simply on how a function of governance box-ticking but relevance are the key entry requirements much money the Company makes but a belief that it is in the best interests of but collectively we have an appropriate mix how the Company makes money.
of gender, nationalities and skills to ensure Corporate practice constructive debate and thoughtful Our success in achieving a desirable mix at In keeping with best practice, we oversee decision making.
In addition, we believe it the Executive Committee level has been the Group worldwide through a unitary is important to maintain a blend within the less successful with currently only one Board and six separate Committees Audit, Non-Executive group where some are in woman on a Committee of seven.
We are Nominations, Remuneration, Corporate full time executive employment and others working hard to address this issue through Responsibility, Executive and Disclosure.
are pursuing a portfolio non-executive a variety of measures and I am confident Each Committee has agreed terms of career path.
we will increase the appointment of women reference and schedules a series of meetings in executive roles at the highestlevel.
In addition to myself as Chairman, our throughout the year with disciplined agendas.
current Non-Executives comprise one Each Committee is professionally chaired Australian, one Italian and four British and populated by an appropriate mix of Non-Executive and or Executive Directors.
y T I l I B I S n O P P A S G E 8 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Business Review Chairmans Statement ChaIrMans stateMent ContInUed Our business principles 1.
Demonstrating integrity in corporate conduct.
to help us make decisions in 4.
Enhancing customer experiences and business partnerships.
line with a consistent set of 6.
Focusing on health, safety and security.
memory and avoid undue disruption strategic discussion over the course of Board composition planning at one time, I intend to stagger their the years Board meetings rather than Over the last two years we have completed departure such that Paul Rayner remains concentrating our efforts at an annual the first phase of refreshing the Board in on the Board to 31 December 2013 and offsite strategic review session.
IBE also keeping with the requirement for ensuring Mary Francis continues in her capacity recommended sharing more detail independence of mind and relevance of as Senior Independent Director during of the individual Committee meetings at skills.
Our last three appointments have 2014.
Whilst technically this exceeds their Board updates and encouraging all included two with full time executive roles nine-year term, the Board has confirmed Executive Directors to participate more fully to bring relevant operational and financial that they remain independent in character in Board discussion on areas outside their experience to the Board and one with and judgement and I believe taking this day to day responsibility.
a broader non-executive skillset drawn approach to be in the best interests from her experience in finance and as a In 2012 we adopted all of these of the Company.
non-executive and chairman of other recommendations to good effect, resulting boards.
These appointments have assisted With these changes in mind, the role of in fuller participation by all Board members a generational change in Board Chairman of the Audit Committee, which and a more regular review of the strategic membership and provided required has been undertaken by Paul Rayner, will development of the Group in a rapidly replacement chairmanship skills in both be handed over to Margherita Della Valle changing external environment.
at the time of the half year results in 2013.
December 2012, we conducted an internal Mary Francis will remain Chairman of the Board evaluation comprising a written Following the announcement by BHP Corporate Responsibility Committee for questionnaire followed by discussion in Billiton in February 2013 of the appointment the duration of 2013. order to evaluate the success of the of Andrew Mackenzie as CEO it is with changes made and identify points to regret that we have accepted Andrews A search will be initiated for the be addressed in the next twelve months.
resignation as a Non-Executive Director replacement of both Paul Rayner and Based on the responses, all Directors of Centrica with effect from 10 May 2013.
Mary Francis in the second half of 2013 concluded that there had been Andrew will not, therefore, seek re-election with a specification of skills and background considerable improvement in both the as a Director at the Annual General to be determined in keeping with the quality and frequency of strategic Meeting to be held on 13 May 2013. demand of the business model at that time.
All were now satisfied with In light of the increased content of the progress made and the contribution Board evaluation upstream activity and our wider presence of all Board members.
Looking forward, Our policy over many years has been in North America, we have commenced there were no issues on process or to conduct a thorough review of Board a search for an additional Non-Executive divisions on strategy.
process, practice and culture on an annual with strong upstream credentials in North basis with the input of an external facilitator America.
It is hoped that this appointment at least once every three years.
will be made in the first half of 2013.
At the end of 2011 we appointed Sadly two of our Non-Executives, Mary Independent Board Evaluations IBE to Francis and Paul Rayner, will complete conduct an external review and carefully their nine-year term of office in 2013.
Both considered their findings that they Sir Roger Carr have made a material contribution to the recommended to make a good board Chairman Board and both will ultimately be a loss great.
The main observation was on the 27 February 2013 to the business.
To preserve corporate importance of allocating sufficient time for E R 3 E 6 T A R O P R O C Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 9 Business Review Chief Executives Review ChiEf ExECUtivES rEviEw: MArKEtPLACE world gas markets are evolving and we have to evolve with them Sam Laidlaw Chief Executive securing our customers energy needs, our vision remains to be the leading sustainably and affordably, is at the core integrated energy company, with of what we do.
But the energy world is customers at our core.
By 2020: our strategy to deliver that vision.
almost three quarters of the UKs gas we will deploy our skills and capabilities will be imported: so that we can benefit from the trends in our markets, growing and more of the UKs electricity will be strengthening the business to fulfil generated from capital intensive, low our responsibilities to shareholders, carbon technologies: customers and stakeholders.
every home in the UK will have a smart meter: and in the US, shale will provide well over a third of natural gas production, having already transformed the Us energy market.
In More detaIl Refreshed strategic priorities to deliver our vision on page 10 Business model built for the evolving energy world on page 12 Review of the year on page 14 10 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Business Review Chief Executives Review oUr vIsIon and strategIC prIorItIes we have been working hard for the past three years to realise our strategic priorities Strategy delivered over the last three years Stable profits and strong customer retention in the grow BrItIsh gas residential business and reduced customer churn leading the transition to low Increased profitability in British Gas Services carbon homes and business Clear leadership established in systems, online and smart Significantly larger and more geographically delIver valUe froM oUr diverse business growIng UpstreaM BUsIness Increased gas and oil reserves and production securing sustainable energy for up by around 50% our customers Strong nuclear performance with life extensions creating additional value Increased scale in both upstream and downstream BUIld an Integrated north Improved return on capital in North American aMerICan BUsIness downstream with leading positions in Upstream resource trebled and production doubled deregulated markets Earnings per share growth of 25% drIve sUperIor fInanCIal retUrns Dividend per share growth of 28% through operating performance Total shareholder return of 36% FTSE 100: 21% and our unique investment choices y n a p E w C S N U m i A S N T t A R o I E h N V A c O B G I c L I D y T O u Y O g G s r t e o n m e e d Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 11 Business Review Chief Executives Review we are now in a strong position to realise the next step of our strategic direction Our refreshed strategic priorities INNOVATE INTEGRATE our natural gas to drive growth and service business, linked excellence to our core markets INCREASE our returns through efficiency and continued capital discipline REAd mORE ABOuT OuR nEw STRATEGIC PRIORITIES On PAGES 16 TO 17 r e s t a a r t T g N E o M e R E I t G u S A K n N r M A i A M N c R A g E G E D o n L M O r E i H N E T e d K A a T S e L 12 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Business Review Chief Executives Review OUr BUSinESS MODEL: an Integrated energy landsCape the energy chain demonstrates how Centrica plays a major part in every aspect of energy from sourcing it to saving it.
each link in the energy chain is critical to our success and helps us to deliver our vision to be the leading integrated energy company, with customers at our core.
CEnTRICA EnERGy PAGE 26 dIRECT EnERGy PAGE 32 we soUrCe and generate It We invest in gas and oil reserves from We generate power through our fleet Our five UK onshore and offshore wind the seas around the UK to secure vital of combined cycle gas turbine power farms generate renewable power.
We have stations, with eight stations in the UK and offshore wind farm generated its first natural gas assets in the UK, Norway, the three plants in Texas.
We also generate power in the second half of 2012 and in Netherlands, North America and Trinidad power through our equity interest in EDF 2013 it will provide energy to more than and Tobago.
Energy Nuclear Generation which operates 200,000 homes.
In North America, we eight UK nuclear power stations.
secure the electrical output from numerous Texan wind farms.
6 6.8mmboe 28twh 31 million gas and liquids produced power generated customer accounts Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 13 Business Review Chief Executives Review CEnTRICA EnERGy PAGE 26 CEnTRICA STORAGE PAGE 30 dIRECT EnERGy PAGE 32 we proCess, store and trade It With the UK increasingly dependent on Our UK onshore gas terminals ensure high In the UK and North America, we trade imported gas, our storage capability helps quality gas enters the UKs transmission gas and power to ensure British Gas and ensure security of gas supply to homes system.
The Barrow terminals process gas Direct Energy customers have a reliable and businesses.
Our Rough storage facility from our Morecambe fields in the East Irish and competitive energy supply.
We have is the largest in the UK, making up more Sea while the terminal at Easington, in East extended our presence to include liquefied than 70% of national storage capacity and Yorkshire, processes gas from the Rough natural gas LNG imports.
Shipping LNG meeting around 10% of peak day demand.
storage facility and from early 2013, a where the gas is cooled to liquid form We store gas at Rough for a large number newly constructed facility at Easington for ease of transport now plays an of customers, including utilities, gas traders will process gas from the York field.
important part in the way we secure the and gas producers.
BRITISh GAS PAGE 22 dIRECT EnERGy PAGE 32 we sUpply, servICe and save It We supply energy to millions of homes and consumption and costs.
We offer an We save energy by helping customers businesses in the UK and North America, increasing number of innovative low to improve energy efficiency, offering and provide peace of mind with central carbon, energy efficient products and free insulation and embracing new heating, boiler and cooling maintenance services, including installing solar panels, technologies with smart meters playing and breakdown cover products.
insulation and ground and air source a vital role as the enabling technology in heating.
We are also installing solar the smart connected home.
Our recently By rolling out smart meter technology, we canopies to charge the first fully electric launched Remote Heating Control are ending the need for estimated bills, cars in the UK.
product means customers can monitor providing customers with accurate, and control their central heating systems real-time information on energy from outside the home via the internet.
14 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Business Review Chief Executives Review revIew of the year tough economic climate, we are committed delivered further profit and customer It is important that to doing everything we can to help our growth in an environment of low gas prices customers.
We have made sure that energy and we have successfully integrated recent Centrica makes a fair and choices are simple and transparent, and acquisitions into the business.
We continue we lead the way in standards of customer to see North America as an attractive reasonable return so that service, innovation, help for the vulnerable market to deploy capital, both upstream we can continue to make and energy efficiency.
The weak economy and downstream, for growth and for value.
continues to have an adverse impact on We remain on track to deliver our Groupour contribution to society British Gas Business.
However we were wide 500 million cost reduction able to deliver strong double-digit profit programme, sharpening the business and and to invest.
in 2012, we growth in British Gas Services, largely maintaining our competitive edge.
At the through tight cost control coupled with incurred a tax charge of same time we have retained our absolute continuing high standards ofservice.
focus on safety which continues to be a over 1 billion and invested Upstream at Centrica Energy, we continue core priority across all our activities.
Our to invest to secure energy supplies for the downstream businesses have continued over 2 billion to secure UK.
We completed three acquisitions of their significant reduction in accident rates.
gas and oil assets, delivering a step change Upstream operations had no significant new sources of energy in annual production and strengthening the process safety events in 2012 and geographic spread of our portfolio.
In continue to implement their rigorous for the Uk, well in excess power, our Lincs offshore wind farm has programme of process safety management generated first power and will be fully systems.
At a Group level we have of our profits.
While market developed a more comprehensive process conditions remain challenging for gas-fired to provide greater assurance of HSE Strong performance in 2012 allows plants the nuclear fleet performed well, compliance to the Board and Executive.
us to contribute our fair share with increased output and seven year life This strong safety culture is reflected in our Centrica performed well in 2012 in a extensions for Hinkley Point B and performance, with the lost time injury challenging environment, delivering year on Hunterston B.
In nuclear new build, while frequency rate LTIFR falling by 20%.
year adjusted earnings growth of 5%.
This significant progress has been made, there reflects a combination of organic growth Overall, Centrica is delivering consistent remains uncertainty about overall project and enhanced scale from recent acquisitions earnings growth and it is this which allows costs and the construction schedule.
and investments, in the UK, Norway and us to make our fair contribution to the These factors, in particular the lengthening North America, as well as a continued economy and society through investment, time frame for a return on the capital focus on cost efficiency across the Group.
employment, tax payments and dividends.
invested in a project of this scale, has led As a result we have been able to grow the us to conclude that participation is not Helping our customers in full-year dividend by more than the rate of right for Centrica and in February 2013 we difficulttimes inflation for the 13th year in succession, in announced our decision not to participate.
Taking the lead in making energy addition to launching a 500 million share choices simple and transparent repurchase programme in early 2013.
In Centrica Storage, we delivered an In February 2013, Ofgem announced that increase in profit through strong Downstream at British Gas, we are facing it was preparing for final proposals and a operational and commercial performance.
increased costs in supplying energy, most statutory consultation to be published In North America, at Direct Energy we of which are external to the Group.
In this around the end of March 2013 on its reforms Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 15 Business Review Chief Executives Review wE hAvE tAKEn thE LEAD DUrinG 2012 in helpIng More hoUseholds save energy and sUpportIng the people who need the Most help.
Sam Laidlaw Chief Executive to make the household energy market Innovation in North America simpler, clearer and fairer for consumers.
In North America, greater competition how do we MeasUre These follow on from initial findings has been welcomed by regulators and published in March 2011 and updated customers in our core markets, Texas and Up agaInst oUr proposals announced in October 2012. the US North East.
The headline proposals are a welcome growth have increased the size of our step forward for the industry and will help business and we now have 3.5 million to improve customer trust, engagement and residential energy customer accounts understanding.
However, it is important that and around 6 million residential energy Our key performance these positive developments do not have and services accounts intotal.
indicators can be found the unintended consequence of restricting We continue to focus on providing choice and innovation.
We have already on page 18 attractive and innovative products to implemented a number of changes our residential and business customers, consistent with the headline proposals, building on our Group-wide expertise in including simplifying our tariff structures and vulnerable customers received the Warm competitive markets.
Our prepaid Power publishing price comparison information to Home Discount, now worth 130 off their to Go product in Texas continues to grow, make it easy for customers to ensure they annual bill.
We are also at the forefront of while in the US North East the introduction are on the most appropriate British Gas measures to help people use less energy, of Free Power Saturdays has encouraged tariff for them.
installing insulation for nearly 700,000 customers to rephase their electricity use customers during the year.
Customer service, cost efficiency and to off-peak times.
We are specifically innovation remain at the heart of everything Despite the squeeze on household budgets, tailoring offers for small business we do.
British Gas operating costs fell year British Gas Services performed well.
We customers while continuing to deliver high on year, but not at the expense of service, improved retention rates across our product levels of service.
Our energy services as our Net Promoter Score NPS range demonstrating the value which business gives us the ability to differentiate increased once again, to 30, and we customers place on our services.
However, ourselves from our competitors with were awarded the top five star rating for in current economic conditions additional higher margin propositions.
customer service from Consumer Focus.
it is difficult to attract new customers and we In Ontario, restrictions on competition Our improved online platform handled 13% also saw a reduction in boiler installation continue to make it difficult for us both to more transactions than in 2011, achieving a volumes, down 10% from last year.
The retain customers and attract new ones.
We better customer experience and lower economic impact was seen more clearly in no longer view this business as core and costs.
Our new Remote Heating Control British Gas Business, leading to lower are managing costs to continue serving our product allows customers to monitor and profitability and a reduction in the number of existing customers as efficiently as possible.
control their energy use when they are accounts served in a highly competitive away from the home, and we have now market.
We are therefore taking steps to put Securing sustainable and installed over 800,000 smart meters for this business on a stronger footing for affordable energy supplies homes and businesses substantially long-term growth, including introducing new The Group invested 2.7 billion of capital more than any other UK energy supplier.
systems to improve levels of customer in 2012, helping to secure supplies for the service, at lower cost.
Around 2 billion of that was invested We also spend more than any other energy expect to achieve growth in business in North Sea gas and oil assets, including supplier on those who are most in need of services, particularly through Energy the completion of three acquisitions.
In 2012, 400,000 of our most Performance Contracts.
materially increased the scale and 16 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Business Review Chief Executives Review revIew of the year ContInUed geographic diversity of the business and the UK Governments Electricity Market Norway is now a core part of our portfolio, Reform and Gas Strategy both indicating with a number of attractive producing, a long-term role for gas-fired generation.
Over However, the sources of UK gas are the past three years we have developed changing, with North Sea reserves declining significant capabilities in upstream and and becoming more expensive to develop.
midstream, leaving us well placed for This places more reliance on imported futuregrowth.
pipeline gas and particularly LNG, and leaves the UK increasingly exposed to We achieved first gas from our Ensign, global gas prices.
Seven Seas and Atla development projects during the year, with first gas expected At the same time, the nature of low carbon power investments in the UK is changing, from York and Rhyl in the coming weeks.
with affordability for consumers In early 2013, we had positive results increasingly the focus of attention.
Projects from exploration drilling at Rodriquez and are becoming larger in scale, with higher Whitehaven.
However we recorded a lower capital costs and longer construction level of drilling success in 2012 than in soUrCIng and times, while the fixed price nature of the previous years, including a development proCUrIng the rIght Contract for Difference mechanism means well failure at Ensign which resulted in a that output will no longer act as a hedge pre-tax write-off of 73 million.
Construction energy at the rIght against downstream price volatility.
has now begun at the 1.4 billion Cygnus prICe project.
Cygnus is the largest gas discovery Against this backdrop, our vision is to be in the Southern North Sea in the last 25 the leading integrated energy company, years and will create 4,000 jobs during the with customers at our core.
We have construction phase, predominantly in the Read about Centrica refreshed our strategic priorities to position UK.
At peak production it will be able to Centrica to best advantage in this Energys activities meet the demand of nearly 1.5 million demanding but exciting new world: on page 26 UKhomes.
Innovate to drive growth and service We achieved first power from our 270MW excellence we see attractive value, aligned to our Lincs offshore wind farm in the year.
When Lead with great service and efficient core competencies.
In this context, we fully operational by the second half of 2013 operations announced in October that we would not it will be able to meet the annual demand of Enable our customers to control their proceed with plans to build two dedicated more than 200,000 homes.
We were also energy use in a simpler, smarter, more biomass plants, following recent clarification granted planning consent for 580MW at efficient way on the regulatory framework indicating a the Race Bank offshore wind farm project.
Grow in selected markets, building on Government preference for coal conversion.
We are willing to commit 200million for our leading capabilities Earlier this month, we also announced that the project, and are in discussion with a Integrate our natural gas business, linked we would not participate in the construction financial partner and the Government to our core markets of up to four new nuclear reactors in the concerning the economic framework.
Grow and diversify our exploration and UK.
While we believe that nuclear power Investment in the existing nuclear fleet is production portfolio for value has an important role to play in the UKs ongoing, with the expectation for nuclear Develop our midstream business to energy mix, the likely cost and timescale plant life extensions for the AGR fleet now integrate along the gas value chain of this project led us to conclude that it seven years on average, compared to the Maintain a low carbon power hedge was not in the best interests of Centrica five previously assumed.
In gas-fired and invest where we see value shareholders for us to participate.
generation we have recently sanctioned a Increase our returns through efficiency turbine blade upgrade at our 1.2GW South New strategic priorities to reflect and continued capital discipline Humber power station.
We also have changing market conditions Further develop organisational strong capabilities in gas storage, and two World gas markets are evolving and we capability potentially attractive projects, Baird and have to evolve with them.
Shale gas in Continuously focus on safety Caythorpe.
However the market remains North America and LNG globally have Deliver value to shareholders challenging for new gas storage projects transformed the landscape.
Gas will and we will only invest if the returns are These strategic priorities apply across our continue to play a major role in the UK, appropriate for the level of risk undertaken.
businesses in the UK, North America and both in heating the overwhelming majority internationally.
In order to reinforce delivery of homes and businesses and as part of a However, as with all our investment of the priorities we are moving to an diverse fuel mix for power generation, with options, we will only deploy capital where Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 17 Business Review Chief Executives Review international functional organisation with In North America too, service, innovation Our focus in UK power generation will be to a new management structure, aligned to and cost efficiency will remain a core focus.
preserve our existing power hedge, investing our core competencies downstream and But the continued liberalisation of markets where we have a competitive advantage and upstream.
And we will do all this with the in the United States, and the undeveloped see attractive returns.
We retain a number clear objective of increasing our returns, nature of energy services provision, offer of offshore wind opportunities, at Race Bank through efficiency and continued capital an opportunity to grow our customer base, and in the Irish Sea.
However, we will only discipline.
Chris Weston will lead the both organically and through acquisition.
invest for value and will seek to reduce our international downstream business, as We will continue to evaluate both bolt-on equity ownership through partnering where we build on our distinctive capabilities in and larger acquisitions but remain focused appropriate.
We also retain options to build service, systems, energy services and on returns and will only transact where we new CCGTs.
However spark spreads remain efficiency, in the UK and North America.
We will use our UK expertise and at historically low levels and much will Mark Hanafin will lead the international experience to develop our protection plan depend on the final outcome of Electricity upstream business as we continue to offerings in North America and we will Market Reform and the implementation of develop opportunities along the gas value increase the level of energy and services a capacity market in the UK.
chain and invest where we see attractive bundling over time.
Over the next three to Increase our returns through efficiency value.
Both Chris and Mark have extensive five years we are targeting a doubling of and continued capital discipline experience in the UK and North America, profitability in the North America downstream In 2013, Centrica faces new challenges, and are therefore well placed to take on business, through a combination of organic including the loss of free carbon the task ahead.
growth and acquisitions, with Direct Energy allowances.
But we will continue to benefit downstream becoming a more material Innovate to drive growth and service from our cost reduction programme, from part of the Group.
excellence organic growth and also from the full-year Integrate our natural gas business, Underlying household energy consumption impact of acquisitions, both upstream in linked to our core markets in the UK will continue to fall as appliances gas and oil production and in North In an increasingly global market, we must and homes become more efficient.
In this context, it is vital that we secure gas from a wider range of sources However with the UK increasingly exposed continue to focus on operational efficiency, and will consider at which stages of the supply to global gas prices, and non-commodity reducing costs wherever possible for the chain we can add value, expanding the costs expected to rise year on year, benefit of customers and shareholders.
scope of our activities where appropriate.
affordability will remain an important issue.
All this must be done without in any way The aim is to connect sources of energy By contrast, the low gas price environment compromising our strong focus on health to our customers, building an integrated in North America makes affordability less and safety.
international business focused on the of an issue, and favourable market Centrica has a robust balance sheet and Atlantic basin.
conditions in the United States offer a generates strong cash flows and we retain good opportunity for growth.
On both The UK and Norway will remain an a number of investment opportunities sides of the Atlantic, the roll-out of smart important part of our upstream investment across the Group.
This combination, allied meters will give customers a new level of and activity, as we look to maintain an to our expertise and experience both control over their energy use and we need appropriate energy hedge.
We will invest upstream and downstream, defines to be innovative in the way we help them in assets with a link to existing hubs while Centricas core capabilities.
However, meet their evolving energy needs.
looking to divest non-core assets.
However, we will maintain capital discipline, as In the UK, we have developed a leading with the development of North Sea fields evidenced by our recently announced 500 online platform and leading customer becoming increasingly expensive, million share repurchase programme, only systems.
We will also take advantage of particularly in the UK, we will refresh our investing where we see value.
Our aim now our strong positions in energy services focus on value.
In North America we will is to use those strengths to innovate and and smart meters to develop exciting new consider both conventional and grow while adapting to a rapidly evolving propositions, with offerings increasingly unconventional assets, and there is also energy world, serving our customers and tailored to the needs of individual potential for gas exports later in the decade.
Through relentless focus on Overall, we will invest where we see value service excellence, innovation and cost across our international portfolio, delivering efficiency, we aim to maintain stable annual production in the range 75mmboe to margins in residential energy supply, and 100mmboe.
In addition, we will look to build target continued expansion in residential on our existing midstream capabilities and Sam Laidlaw services.
In business energy we have laid positions along the gas value chain, focusing Chief Executive the groundwork for future growth, although on asset optimisation and gas contracting 27 February 2013 in the near term market conditions remain with an emerging LNG presence, provided challenging.
we can do so in a capital efficient manner.
18 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Business Review Key Performance Indicators key perforManCe IndICators we monitor our performance by measuring and tracking key performance indicators kpIs that we believe are important to our longer-term success.
long-term sustainable performance of these kpIs is linked to the remuneration arrangements of our executive directors and senior executives.
fInanCIal Adjusted operating Adjusted basic earnings Total shareholder Dividend per share profit per share EPS return TSR Operating profit is our EPS is an industry standard The Board believes that TSR Dividend per share indicates key measure for financial determining corporate is a valuable KPI to assess the level of earnings performance.
the Companys performance distributed to Centrica remuneration purposes, EPS is adjusted to reflect in the delivery of shareholder shareholders.
The 2012 operating profit is adjusted better the performance of value.
Centrica has dividend shows an increase to a post-tax basis and by a the business.
2012 saw outperformed the FTSE 100 of 6% on the 2011 dividend.
charge on capital to set the growth in our EPS despite Index by 19% over the economic profit the challenging economic previous five years.
Target for 2013 Target for 2013 Target for 2013 Target for 2013 To continue to drive towards To deliver real growth To deliver improved levels of To deliver real growth each our three-year economic in adjusted EPS over relative TSR as a measure of year.
Dividends paid profit target range of successive three-year performance over a sustained contribute to relative TSR.
Adjusted basic earnings Total shareholder return Ordinary dividend pence Adjusted operating per share pence indices unaudited profit m 130 2012 16.4 2012 2,743 2012 27.1 110 90 2011 2,415 2011 25.8 2011 15.4 70 07 08 09 10 11 12 Year 2010 2,390 2010 25.2 2010 14.3 C Cen ent tri rica ca r re et tu ur rn n in ind fide ex x FTSE 100 return index 31 December 2007 100 2,743m 27.1p 19% 16.4p Adjusted operating profit EPS TSR outperformance Total dividend 2011: 2,415m 2011: 25.8p over five years 2011: 15.4p 2011: 5% T R O P E R P n A O G I Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 19 Business Review Key Performance Indicators Unless otherwise stated, all references to operating profit or loss, taxation and earnings numbers throughout the report are adjusted figures, as reconciled to their statutory equivalents in the table on page 4. non-fInanCIal Lost time injury Process safety Customer trust Employee engagement frequency rate LTIFR Safety is one of our core We have introduced a We track our performance We use a Group-wide priorities.
We continue to separate process safety using net promoter scores employee survey to raise our standards of measure which focuses on NPS for our two customermeasure engagement and performance through strong the integrity of operating facing businesses: British to receive feedback on how leadership and on-going systems and processes Gas in the UK and Direct we can create a positive and programmes to raise that handle hazardous Energy in North America.
awareness and reinforce a substances and therefore We did not conduct a From 2012 we have positive and proactive safety emphasises the importance survey in 2011 but introduced low, median culture across all our of a positive safety culture.
undertook a review on how and high performance businesses.
Initiatives we measure employee There were no significant ranges for NPS.
across the Group in 2012 engagement and how to process safety events led to a 20% reduction in British Gas NPS improved in use it as a tool to drive in2012.
our LTIFR per 100,000 2012 with an annual average business performance.
score of 30, despite higher The survey in 2012 resulted call volumes as a result of in a mean score of 4.72 colder weather.
Both results were within the high performance range.
Target for 2013 Target for 2013 Target for 2013 Target for 2013 To continue to pursue a best To continue to develop To remain within the high To continue to strive towards practice safety culture and process safety strategies performance range.
top quartile performance to at least maintain, and if and training and to improve measured against an possible further improve, performance on all process identified high performance our LTIFR.
LTIFR per 100,000 Net promoter scores British Gas hoursworked British Gas 2012 30 2012 0.20 2012 30 2011 26 2011 0.25 2011 26 Direct Energy 2010 0.43 Direct Energy 2012 39 2010 figure does not include third-party managed contractors and is not directly 2012 39 comparable to 2011 and 2012 data.
2011 28 2011 28 0.20 0 4.72 out of 6 LTIFR Significant events Employee engagement 2011: 0.25 2011: 2 2011: not applicable T E A 4 3 R E n u m E R w w E E I I v v E E R R P P A A G G G G 20 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Business Review Our Businesses oUr BUsInesses 13,716m 4,321m Revenue 2011: 12,315m Revenue 2011: 4,459m 1,093m 1,230m Adjusted operating profit 2011: 1,005m Adjusted operating profit 2011: 1,023m British Gas is Britains leading residential energy and services Centrica Energy is an international business delivering growth provider.
Our energy business supplies gas and electricity to and shareholder value through a balanced mix of gas and oil millions of homes and businesses in Britain, winning awards production, power generation and energy trading.
for high quality customer service and innovation.
Our upstream oil and gas business operates in the UK, the Irish British Gas services business installs, repairs and maintains Sea, the Norwegian and Dutch sectors of the North Sea, as well boilers and heating systems.
Our engineers also service as in Trinidad and Tobago.
In 2012, we added 170mmboe to electrical systems, appliances, plumbing and drains.
our business customers reduce their energy consumption Our power generation business has a fleet of gas-fired power and cut costs, with a range of value-added services.
stations, offshore wind farms and a 20% share in the power British Gas is committed to an energy efficient future generated by EDF Energys UK nuclear power plants.
whether its cutting consumption with insulation measures Our midstream business operates in the UK and European energy or the latest advances in solar panels and electric vehicles.
markets, trading in energy produced both inside and outside the We offer our customers the most up-to-date technology business.
It also supplies British Gas with electricity and gas.
including smart meters and automated heating and security systems.
We bring innovative home improvement projects to local communities.
By focusing on our customers needs, British Gas keeps homes and businesses across Britain warm and working.
5 star 21,489Gwh Customer service rating from Power generated Consumer Focus 25 million 56.7mmboe Customer accounts Gas and liquids produced 30,305 1,788 Employees Employees n n E E I I 2 2 T T 2 6 A A R R E E P P O O w w E E I I v v E E R R P P A A G G G G Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 21 Business Review Our Businesses 164m 5,741m Revenue 2011: 164m Revenue 2011: 5,886m 89m 331m Adjusted operating profit 2011: 75m Adjusted operating profit 2011: 312m Centrica Storage operates the Rough offshore gas storage Direct Energy is one of North Americas largest energy and facility in the Southern North Sea and the associated energy related services providers.
We provide choice and Easington Terminal.
support in managing energy use and costs through our portfolio of innovative products and services.
We operate The business stores gas in the Rough field on behalf of a under four lines of business.
number of customers, including utilities, gas traders, gas producers and other Centrica businesses.
Gas is taken from Direct Energy Residential offers a wide range of fixed and the National Transmission System at Easington, piped offshore variable natural gas and electricity pricing plans in addition and is injected into a subsea reservoir, to be delivered back to time-of-use and prepaid products using smart meter when it is required to meet seasonal peak demands.
Our Rough storage facility is the largest in the UK, able to meet Direct Energy Business provides natural gas and electricity approximately 10% of the UKs current peak day demand and sales as well as energy efficiency management and services.
representing over 70% of UK storage capacity.
Direct Energy Upstream manages natural gas production, Recent major works at Easington will allow us to process gas power generation, midstream gas storage and transportation from Centricas York project and, potentially, from other third across North America.
Direct Energy Services is North Americas largest provider of heating and cooling, plumbing and electrical services.
70% 6 million 10.1mmboe We own over 70% of the UKs gas storage capacity Customer accounts Gas and liquids produced 0 6,336Gwh Lost time incidents in three years Power generated 306 6,243 Employees Employees n E n E I I 3 3 T T 0 2 A A R R E E P P O O 22 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Business Review Operating Review BrItIsh gas we ContInUe to lead the IndUstry In sMart MeterIng, energy effICIenCy, help for the vUlneraBle and In ensUrIng that oUr energy proposItIon Is sIMple, faIr and transparent.
Phil Bentley Managing Director, British Gas new products and services energy for business customers, were making 2012 was an important efficiency reports, time-of-use tariffs the connected home and connected and itemised billing.
business a reality, adding significant year for British gas value to our business.
New technology reaches its full potential our 200th anniversary.
only with an unrelenting commitment to We have seen positive growth in our service excellence.
British Gas continues residential energy and services divisions.
in 1812, our founding to lead the industry in service whether its Although we face higher external costs our award winning online presence and wholesale commodity, transportation company brought gas smartphone applications, downloaded and environmental we have minimised more than 650,000 times, or our unique the impact through the careful lighting to londons Model Visit and Model Call.
British Gas management of our own costs.
We are established a Customer Board in 2011 leading the industry in energy efficiency streets for the first time.
which continues to play a role in ensuring measures and advice, helping our we put customers at the heart of customers to reduce consumption.
In 2012, we are still innovating.
By putting the customer technology looks very different but our For 200 years we have brought front and centre we are growing existing principles of service excellence for our innovation to Britains energy industry.
sales channels and opening new ones.
customers are the same thats why We are delivering the profits that enable we look after millions of homes in Britain.
British Gas is evolving from a supplier investments in alternative forms of energy of electricity and gas to a provider of and new gas fields to keep homes and One new innovation is smart meters.
The complete energy products and services.
businesses warm and well lit.
We will British Gas roll-out programme is bringing From remote heating controls to continue to do so, making a successful significant benefits to customers.
Smart revolutionary energy efficiency services British Gas good news forBritain.
meters bring with them ground-breaking Adjusted operating profit m For the year ended 31 December 2012 2011 1,216 1,093 Adjusted operating profit m 1,011 1,005 Residential energy supply 606 544 840 Residential services 312 269 712 Business energy supply and services 175 192 Customer numbers year end, 000 Residential energy customer accounts 15,656 15,881 Residential services product holdings 8,402 8,484 Business energy supply points 924 999 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 From continuing operations Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 23 Business Review Operating Review and competitive pressures continue to types, do not restrict customer choice or Good performance against a have an adverse impact on our business market innovation.
British Gas has already challenging economic backdrop energy supply division, and we are implemented changes consistent with British Gas performed well in 2012, in a investing in back office systems to reduce many of the headline proposals.
We have weak economy and with continuing cost and enhance customer service.
simplified our tariffs, including a new increases to the cost of supplying energy.
standing charge and single rate structure This is having a real impact for both The health and safety of our employees as part of a commitment to phase out residential and business customers and, and customers remains a core priority.
We have also been against this backdrop, it is important that lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR was publishing price comparison information we continue to focus on improving 0.23 per 100,000 hours worked 2011: on our annual statements since March, customer service and reducing costs.
We 0.29, a 21% reduction over the past year.
allowing customers to check whether they also continue to lead the industry in smart We are also focused on maintaining high are on the most appropriate British Gas metering, energy efficiency, help for the levels of employee engagement and tariff, while we were awarded five stars vulnerable, and in ensuring that our energy recognising the commitment our people by Which?
in July for clarity of billing proposition is simple, fair and transparent.
make to delivering excellent customer and account management.
More recently, In residential energy supply, we delivered service.
This was reflected in British Gas we have built the capability to provide margins in line with our through-cycle being nominated in The Sunday Times a personalised price comparison on expectations, in a period where all Best Big Companies to Work For for each customers bill, based on their suppliers were faced with higher wholesale the fourth year in a row.
gas prices and higher non-commodity Helping our customers in costs, including the cost of upgrading the We continued to deliver high levels of difficult times UKs gas and electricity grids and meeting customer service in 2012.
In residential In February 2013, Ofgem announced that carbon reduction targets.
Weather energy, our average call answering and it was preparing for final proposals and a conditions were cooler than usual, following handling times were lower than in 2011 statutory consultation to be published unusually mild temperatures in 2011. while the volume of calls received fell and around the end of March 2013 on its Average gas consumption was therefore in October, Consumer Focus awarded us reforms to make the household energy higher compared to the prior year, partially their top 5 star customer service rating.
In market simpler, clearer and fairer for offset by efficiency measures taken by our residential services, our customer service consumers.
These follow on from initial customers, including the take-up of our metrics remained strong, despite higher findings published in March 2011 and free insulation offers and the installation call volumes as a result of the colder updated proposals announced in October of more efficient central heating systems.
The headline proposals are a welcome As a result of higher consumption and customer churn was at its lowest ever level.
step forward for the industry.
However, it is costs, the average gas and electricity bill The overall British Gas Net Promoter Score important that the proposals on product increased year on year and was made NPS increased from 26 to 30. range, restricting each supplier to four tariff up as follows: For a 2012 average annual gas and electricity bill of 1,188 the costs are: ArOUnD 15,000 Of External oUr CUstoMers are Wholesale energy 568 Delivery to customer 283 now UsIng reMote Environmental and social policies 112 Taxes 72 heatIng Control Internal Operating costs 104 Profit 49 During the year we launched our award winning Remote Heating Control Based on British Gas 2012 financial results and consumption and is an average of all payment types tariffs regions.
product which allows customers to monitor and control their central heating In residential services, we again delivered system via the internet or a smart phone.
double digit profit growth despite the For our smart meter customers, we also challenging economic climate, primarily launched the Smart Energy Report to driven by cost efficiencies, while continued provide visibility of how their energy is high service levels resulted in strong being used and to help them reduce customer retention.
The weak economy their consumption.
24 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Business Review Operating Review BrItIsh gas ContInUed hOw dId wE mEASuRE uP?
BRITISh GAS PERfORmAnCE mEASuRES CAn BE fOund AT CEnTRICA.
COm REPORT2012 During 2012 we further developed our the cost of upgrading the UKs gas and Our competitive pricing position has now online platform.
We now have 3.4 million electricity grids and meeting carbon improved following the implementation of online registered customers, a 20% reduction targets increased by 50 per price rises by all major suppliers and we increase since last year, and over a third of customer in 2012.
As a result, in October have seen a return to growth in the early all energy bills are now sent electronically.
we announced a rise in domestic gas and weeks of 2013.
We have 5 million customers Seven out of ten customer own meter reads electricity prices by an average of 6%, enrolled in the Nectar loyalty programme, are submitted online and we have over one which was implemented in November.
which reduces our cost to serve and million accounts on EnergySmart which improves the customer experience by The number of residential energy helps customers monitor and manage their incentivising the use of our online platform, customer accounts on supply reduced by energy usage.
We have launched leading including the submission of meter reads 1% during the year, to 15.7 million 2011: applications for both Apple and Android and payment by directdebit.
This reflected a short term smart phones and have seen more than increase in customer churn following the The number of residential services 650,000 downloads to date.
Around a implementation of the price rise, although product holdings fell slightly to 8.4 million quarter of all website contacts are now churn of 9% over the year was at its lowest 2011: 8.5 million, with weak economic made through mobiledevices.
ever level reflecting good customer service.
conditions making sales of new contracts We continue to help our most vulnerable challenging.
Retention rates improved customers and maintain the widest however, with strong levels of customer eligibility criteria among all energy suppliers service supporting attractive customer for the Warm Home Discount, which propositions.
We decided in the second helped 400,000 customers during the year.
half of the year to strengthen our Plumbing In October, we announced Better Homes and Drains product by expanding the for Britain, a five year partnership with cover to include the water supply pipe.
As Shelter to help one million British households a result we are no longer selling a separate living in private rental property improve the water supply pipe product and our product standard of their homes.
We also lead the holdings have been restated accordingly.
Since 2008, The economic environment continued to British Gas has installed 1.7million insulation impact boiler installation volumes, which measures to homes across the UK through fell 10% to 94,000 2011: 105,000, the CERT and CESP programmes.
Under although operating profit increased as these schemes, British Gas was required we focused on reducing our cost base.
to meet a variety of carbon emissions We continue to develop new affinity reduction targets by 31 December 2012. relationships to enable us to offer energy Overall we expect to fulfil our total carbon and services products to a wider customer saving targets in the first quarter of 2013, base.
In July, we signed a broad strategic although finding customers who qualify partnership with the RAC covering a as being in the Super Priority Group number of areas, including roadside has proved challenging and this particular breakdown, joint procurement and affinity sub-target will not be fully met.
However, marketing, and the first sales were made in Ofgem has indicated that mitigating actions November.
In electric vehicles, we are the undertaken after 31 December will also be preferred supplier of home charging taken into account when assessing delivery.
solutions for five major car manufacturers.
Customer accounts stabilised The number of business energy supply despite competitive market points fell by 8% over the year, to 924,000 conditions 2011: 999,000 due to the challenging A slight fall in wholesale electricity prices economic and competitive environment at the end of 2011 allowed us to implement which is putting pressure on contract a 5% reduction in our standard domestic renewal rates and margins.
However, we electricity tariff in January, re-establishing have recently received the letter of intent to British Gas as the cheapest major award the renewal of a significant electricity supplier on average in Britain.
electricity contract from the Government However, like the rest of the industry, we Procurement Service comprising 70,000 are facing higher external costs.
Wholesale sites for a term of four years.
A new gas prices are 13% higher for winter management team is in place and we 2012 13 than for winter 2011 12, while continue to invest in our back office Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 25 Business Review Operating Review systems to reduce costs, sharpen our and distribution costs both increased, customers are now using the product and, competitive position and enhance our while environmental costs rose by 22% to as part of a bundle, it is also driving higher customer service.
In business services 732 million 2011: 599 million.
The sales conversion of central heating systems.
we have made good progress.
We have residential energy operating margin was For our smart meter customers, we also now been selected as preferred contractor 6.6% 2011: 6.9%, in line with our throughlaunched the Smart Energy Report to on seven multi-year energy performance cycle expectations.
provide visibility of how their energy is contracts with public sector organisations being used and to help them reduce In residential services, gross revenue and have a strong pipeline for the theirconsumption.
increased slightly to 1,674 million 2011: yearahead.
1,644 million with a rise in revenue from We will continue to lead the transition to More normal weather and cost insulation jobs more than offsetting a smart connected homes and businesses, reduction programme driving decline in installations revenue.
Operating offering attractive propositions, which will profit growth profit increased by 16% to 312 million improve customer engagement and deliver After an unseasonally warm 2011, total 2011: 269 million, while the operating lower costs for the business.
British Gas gross revenue increased to margin increased to 18.6% 2011: 16.4% Innovate to drive growth and 13,857 million 2011: 12,403 million driven by cost efficiencies and an improved service excellence reflecting higher gas sales volumes.
Total contribution from our new markets activity.
Performance in 2012 in a challenging British Gas operating profit increased to In business energy supply and services, economic and competitive environment 1,093 million 2011: 1,005 million.
We gross revenue increased to 3,062 million has demonstrated that our business model continue to make good progress on our 2011: 2,829 million with operating profit remains sound.
In residential energy cost reduction programme and are on falling by 9% to 175 million 2011: 192 supply it will be increasingly important to track to deliver 300 million of cost savings million, reflecting the challenging external differentiate our offering through service across British Gas by the end of 2013. environment.
Business services revenue excellence and innovation.
Our scale and We are seeing the benefit of previous increased by 12% compared to 2011. leadership in customer service, cost investment in industry-leading IT systems efficiency and systems leave us well and have achieved savings through a Leading the transition to smart placed to continue to deliver a fair level range of initiatives, including a pay freeze connected homes and businesses of margin in this business.
In residential for employees and changes to the defined We continue to lead the industry in smart services, our focus remains on offering benefit pension schemes.
During 2012, metering and have now installed over attractive customer propositions and we closed our Southampton call centre, 800,000 smart meters in homes and delivering service excellence, while also outsourced a number of roles in British businesses.
We welcomed the working to reduce costs further during Gas Services and British Gas Business, Governments confirmation of the 2013.
We expect to deliver continued reduced IT costs through new working standards for the smart meter roll-out and profit growth in services, although not practices, offshored and transitioned to we are the only supplier currently installing at the high levels achieved in 2012.
In new data centres and agreed improved fully compliant Phase 3 meters in business energy supply, the environment commercial terms with suppliers.
Smart meters are a remains challenging.
We are investing in result, including the impact of investment key enabler for a range of technologies our back office systems to reduce costs in growth areas, operating costs were 1% and by going early on the roll-out we have and improve service and, over time, we lower in 2012 than in the prior period and, gained invaluable experience.
We are also expect business services to make a more despite the weak economy, the bad debt starting to see the benefit of smart meters material contribution.
Looking to the future, charge as a proportion of revenue fell as delivering an enhanced customer smart meters are a key enabler in the the benefits of improved systems and experience, including significantly lower trend towards the smart connected processes wererealised.
contact rates, fewer complaints and higher home.
British Gas leadership in smart retention.
We have made a number of In residential energy, gross revenue metering and technology will enable us investments in smart technology increased to 9,121 million 2011: 7,930 to capitalise on this trend, deepening companies, including AlertMe, which million reflecting higher consumption and customer relationships and differentiating enables a range of home automation retail tariffs.
After a warm 2011, cooler our energy and services offer to drive applications and Power Plus weather in 2012 saw average domestic long-term growth.
Communications, which specialises in gas consumption increase by 12%, more smart applications in complex buildings.
than offsetting underlying energy efficiency During the year we launched our award reductions.
Average electricity consumption winning Remote Heating Control product was broadly flat compared to 2011. which allows customers to monitor and Residential energy operating profit control their central heating system via the increased to 606 million 2011: 544 internet or a smart phone.
Commodity and transportation 26 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Business Review Operating Review CentrICa energy the gas Market Is BeCoMIng InCreasIngly gloBal.
we aIM to BUIld an Integrated InternatIonal BUsIness foCUsed on the atlantIC BasIn.
Mark Hanafin Managing Director, Centrica Energy exploration opportunities in Norway and is due for completion in 2013.
The 2012 saw Centrica and the UK.
This announcement was continued development in renewables welcomed by the Prime Minister as and a strong operating performance by energy make significant helping to forge a strategically important the nuclear fleet delivered significant relationship between the two nations.
value for the Group and helped to offset steps in delivering the challenging conditions currently The 1.4 billion development of the Cygnus facing our gas-fired generation fleet.
growth and value in its field, the biggest gas discovery in the Health, safety and environmental Southern North Sea for a quarter of a upstream gas and oil, issues remain a core priority and century, is now underway.
Cygnus is we have continued to focus on the expected to create around 4,000 jobs in power generation and management of our major accident the development phase, underlining the hazards.
We have been progressively importance of the energy sector for UK midstream businesses.
In other UK North Sea improving competence, reporting projects, we achieved first gas at the and accountability to ensure we In upstream gas and oil, we added Ensign and Seven Seas fields in 2012. are effectively managing process 170mmboe to our reserves.
of these were added in Norway, helping 2012 also saw important developments in to treble the size of our reserve base in offshore wind.
We received planning Despite the difficult external conditions in this important region for growth.
We also consent for 580MW at the Race Bank 2012, Centrica Energy is well positioned deepened our involvement in Norway by wind farm to be built off the Lincolnshire to deliver growth and value across its extending our Memorandum of coast close to our 270MW Lincs portfolio.
Understanding with Statoil, enabling us development.
Lincs achieved first power to continue working together on gas Adjusted operating profit m For the year ended 31 December 2012 2011 1,230 Adjusted operating profit m 1,023 Gas 919 769 881 Power 311 254 771 663 Gas and power 525 Gas production mmth 2,441 2,160 Liquids production mmboe 16.3 12.5 Proven and probable reserves mmboe 525 410 Power generated TWh 21.5 26.7 From continuing operations 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 27 Business Review Operating Review 2012, for a total of 1.2 billion.
Overall, we during 2012, and with new fields coming A more balanced upstream added 170 million barrels of oil equivalent into production offsetting the natural business mmboe of 2P reserves in the year, as a decline from our existing fields, total Centrica Energy made significant progress result of acquisitions, upgrades of existing production volumes are expected to during 2012 on its strategy to deliver value hubs such as Rhyl and bringing new projects increase by a further 15%.
In upstream gas and oil, we such as Maria into the development pipeline.
integrated three North Sea acquisitions Adding value through gas and After taking production into account, we in 2012.
This delivered a step change for oil development, appraisal ended the year at 525mmboe of 2P reserves the business, increasing production and and exploration 2011: 410mmboe.
Our Norwegian business significantly enhancing the scale and We achieved first gas at Seven Seas and now forms a significant part of the portfolio balance of our portfolio.
In power, although Atla in the second half of the year, following following the acquisitions, accounting for the operating environment for gas-fired on from Ensign having delivered first gas in 41% of our upstream gas and oil reserves, generation remains challenging, the May.
At Ensign we have now also delivered compared to 18% at the end of 2011. business benefited from strong nuclear production from the second well, however operational performance.
due to mechanical issues the initial We have achieved a number of key production rate is below our original project milestones, bringing reserves into expectations.
First gas is expected from production and generating first power from York and Rhyl in the coming weeks, with our 270MW Lincs offshore wind project.
first gas from Kew scheduled for the fourth We have also made important steps to quarter of 2013.
Good progress continues develop future cornerstone assets, with to be made on the Statoil-operated Valemon good progress at the Valemon gas field project with the detailed design having and the sanctioning of the 1.4 billion been agreed towards the end of 2012 and Cygnus gas field, one of the largest fabrication having started early in 2013. remaining development opportunities The field is on track to produce first gas in the UK NorthSea.
In August we announced that the 1.4 billion Total Centrica Energy operating profit Cygnus project, in which we own a 48.75% increased by 20% to 1,230 million 2011: interest, had been sanctioned.
Key contracts 1,023 million with increased profit in both have now been placed and the fabrication gas and power.
This increase in profit was Total production of gas and liquids of the jacket and platform deck started in part helped by the delivery of a series of increased by 18% to 56.7mmboe 2011: ahead of schedule.
The development will cost initiatives in 2012 and the business is 48.2mmboe.
Total gas production volumes create around 4,000 jobs, mostly in the on track to deliver its contribution of cost increased by 13% to 2,441 million therms UK and bring 53mmboe of our reserves savings to Group targets.
These savings mmth 2011: 2,160mmth and total liquids into production from late 2015, providing have not compromised on our continued volumes increased by 30% to 16.3mmboe enough gas at peak production to supply focus on health, safety and environmental 2011: 12.5mmboe, reflecting the benefit of 1.5 million homes.
Centrica Energy continues to recent acquisitions.
We now have less progress its process safety programme, reliance on production from Morecambe, In Trinidad and Tobago, we made further which focuses on the integrity of operating which in 2012 contributed 23% of total progress on the Block 22 project with the systems and processes that handle production 2011: 29% primarily due to award of front end engineering design hazardous substances.
We had no increases from the rest of the portfolio.
contracts for upstream and subsea significant process safety events in 2012.
Performance from South Morecambe facilities as well as the contracting of a rig In terms of environmental practices, we are improved in the second half of the year, to drill two appraisal wells to prove up our committed to operating responsibly and after we took action to stabilise the quality resource base.
We continue to explore will continue to engage with stakeholders, to of gas delivered to the grid during the development and partnership options understand and manage the environmental fields maintenance shut-down in the for gasexport.
and social issues associated with new and summer.
Gas production volumes from Our appraisal drilling at Rhyl North towards existing investments.
Norway more than trebled to 557mmth the end of 2012 was successful, and led 2011: 164mmth while liquids volumes Increased gas and oil reserves to our 2P reserves being revised upwards increased to 8.9mmboe 2011: 4.7mmboe, andproduction by 7mmboe to 14mmboe.
In early 2013, reflecting acquisitions during the year.
Between November 2011 and February exploration drilling at Whitehaven confirmed 2012 we announced three North Sea In 2013 we will benefit from a full year of that the Rhyl reservoir extends further than acquisitions, all of which completed during production from the acquisitions made originally anticipated, potentially leading to 28 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Business Review Operating Review CentrICa energy ContInUed the Uk and norway will remain an important part of our investment and activity hOw dId wE mEASuRE uP?
CEnTRICA EnERGy PERfORmAnCE mEASuRES CAn BE fOund AT CEnTRICA.
Rhyl and original investment in the nuclear fleet.
In Higher gas and oil volumes and Whitehaven will both utilise our existing addition, plant life extensions to the Hinkley achieved prices with reduced Morecambe infrastructure.
Appraisal drilling Point B and Hunterston B nuclear power unit costs at the non-operated Maria North well, in stations were announced in December, Upstream gas and oil profitability increased which we own a 20% interest, showed extending the life of these stations by by 20% to 919 million 2011: 769 million, potential gross recoverable reserves of the seven years from 2016 to 2023.
The reflecting higher production volumes and Maria field towards the upper end of the expectation for nuclear plant life extensions higher achieved prices.
The average 70-150mmboe range published following for the AGR fleet in the UK is now for seven achieved gas sales price increased the discovery in 2010.
Accordingly we have years on average, compared to the five by 6% to 54.7 pence per therm p th revised our 2P reserves up by 10mmboe years previously assumed, and this will 2011: 51.6p th while the average achieved to 25mmboe.
Appraisal drilling at Bligh deliver additional long-term value.
oil and condensate price increased by 10% and exploration drilling at Cooper both to 62.8 per boe 2011: 57.2 boe.
On a The market environment remains challenging encountered hydrocarbons, but tight per unit of production basis, depletion, for gas-fired plant with continued low reservoirs meant that commercial flow rates depreciation and amortisation DDA costs market clean spark spreads.
We also experienced and lifting costs both decreased slightly, remained high at 97% 2011: 98%, however non-operated exploration failures in to 9.8 boe 2011: 10.1 boe and 9.7 boe generation volumes fell by 40% to 9.0TWh Trinidad and Tobago.
However in early 2011: 9.9 boe respectively, with recent 2011: 15.0TWh, with an average load 2013 drilling at the Rodriguez prospect in acquisitions incurring lower unit lifting costs.
The market Norway was successful, confirming the Overall production and overhead costs conditions led to the mothballing of our presence of gas condensate.
increased by 22% to 1,374 million 325MW Kings Lynn power plant at the 2011: 1,127 million due to the impact of In June, we extended our Memorandum beginning of the year and we have now the North Sea acquisitions, new gas and of Understanding MoU with Statoil to also withdrawn our 229MW Roosecote oil fields coming into production, the collaborate on gas-focused exploration power station from service.
Our plants at expensing of a 73 million cost relating to opportunities in Norway and the UK.
In Barry and Brigg continue to operate in the the failure of a third development well at October, the UKCS 27th Round awarded STOR market, with contracts in place until Ensign and inflationary cost increases.
Centrica six licenses covering 13 blocks the end of the first quarter of 2013 while our In addition we incurred exploration and part-blocks.
Three of the blocks will Peterborough plant has a contract which and appraisal costs of 139 million be Centrica-operated, two of which are in will commence in April 2013.
Against this 2011: 97 million, reflecting a lower the West of Shetland, a new area for the difficult market environment, we have been level of drilling success.
Early in 2013 we were awarded successful in minimising our costs and nine blocks in the latest round of licences running the plants as efficiently as possible, Continued strong performance announced by Norways Energy Ministry.
with high levels of availability enabling running from nuclear: challenging market We will be the operator of three of these at peak times.
In February 2013, we conditions for CCGTs blocks, which are close to some of our sanctioned a turbine blade upgrade at our The nuclear fleet recorded strong existing assets.
Our exploration record 1.2GW South Humber power station, which performance during the year, with our 20% over the last three years has been good, will improve the efficiency of the plant.
share of output increasing by 8% to 12.0 with a success rate of 40% and a net terawatt hours TWh 2011: 11.2TWh.
This Availability in our wind assets was 88% finding cost of 3.5 per barrel of oil reflects continued investment in the fleet, 2011: 92%, reflecting an outage at Inner equivalent boe.
with no large unplanned outages during Dowsing in the first quarter, with generated the year, underlining the quality of our volumes down 11% to 533 gigawatt hours Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 29 Business Review Operating Review GWh 2011: 596GWh.
The load factor Formal consultation and a programme of appropriate.
Our aim is to connect sources was 32% 2011: 36%.
stakeholder engagement was undertaken of energy to our customers, building an throughout the year.
A final investment integrated international business focused Power profitability increased by 22% to decision is expected on the first project on the Atlantic basin.
Nuclear in 2016, subject to returns being The UK and Norway will remain an profitability increased, benefiting from a suitablyattractive.
important part of our investment and higher achieved average price of 49.6 In February 2013 we announced that activity, as we look to maintain an MWh 2011: 48.5 MWh, reflecting some we would not be exercising our option to appropriate energy hedge.
We have a benefit from forward hedging, as well as participate in UK nuclear new build, taking number of large scale projects ongoing, the strong operational performance.
Wind into account the lengthening time frame including Cygnus and Valemon, and we profitability also increased, with the sale of for a return on capital invested in a project retain a number of attractive potential 50% of our Round 3 wind farm interest to of this scale.
The decision follows detailed development opportunities, particularly Dong, in line with our established business appraisal of the project, with prein Norway, including at Butch where model to partner on offshore wind, resulting development expenditure approaching appraisal drilling is planned in late 2013. in a net profit of 32 million after taking into the agreed 1 billion cap: accordingly Decisions are targeted during 2013 on account a charge relating to the refusal of Centricas share of project costs have further infill drilling opportunities in the consent at our Docking Shoal project.
Our been written off, with the Group recording East Irish Sea and North Sea.
However, CCGT fleet made a small loss in 2012, the a total impairment of 231 million.
with UK North Sea developments last year of free carbon allowances, reflecting the weak market conditions.
becoming smaller in scale and relatively We have also decided not to proceed with more expensive, we will increasingly look Investing for value in power planning applications to develop dedicated to diversify our production portfolio, linked In offshore wind, our 270MW Lincs project biomass power stations at Roosecote to our core markets.
This is likely to include has now generated first power and is and Brigg, with recent clarification on the further investment in North America, expected to be fully operational in the regulatory framework indicating a preference possibly in shale gas, and there is also the second half of 2013.
We have invested for co-firing and coal conversion.
As the potential for gas exports later in the decade.
over 3 million in a new operations base market becomes increasingly dependent We will invest where we see value across at Grimsby docks to serve Lincs and other on fixed price support mechanisms, we our international portfolio, delivering annual potential Centrica Energy wind farm will leverage our competencies, investing production in the range 75mmboe to developments, a substantial investment only where we see value.
In midstream, we have in the local area.
Integrate our natural gas business, significant capabilities and presence in linked to our core markets European and North American gas We continue to progress towards a final The gas market is becoming increasingly markets where we have important strategic investment decision on the Race Bank global.
We have made progress in participation in pipeline capacity, project, which is consented for 580MW.
diversifying our sources of gas, including regasification capacity and gas storage.
We are willing to commit 200 million for agreements to import pipeline gas from We will also look to develop our assetthe project, and are in discussion with Norway and LNG from Qatar through our based midstream trading and optimisation a financial partner and the Government regasification capacity at the Isle of Grain.
business over time, with an emerging concerning the economic framework.
We are looking to secure gas increasingly presence in LNG.
However we will invest During 2012 we also established a joint from a wider range of sources, expanding only where we see value, with rewards venture with Dong Energy to co-develop the Round 3 Irish Sea wind farm zone.
the scope of our activities where commensurate with the scale of investment and associated risks.
30 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Business Review Operating Review CentrICa storage CentrICa storage plays a key role wIthIn the groUps Integrated energy BUsIness and Makes a vItal ContrIBUtIon to the seCUrIty of energy sUpplIes for the Uk.
Grant Dawson Chairman, Centrica Storage We do, however, remain convinced that At Centrica Storage Do Everything I am pleased to report the UK will require more gas storage Safely is one of our core priorities and capacity in the future and therefore have I am encouraged that 2012 has been that Centrica storage continued to engage with various another strong year in terms of our stakeholders, including the UK safety record.
I am particularly pleased achieved higher profits Government, on ways to support the that in September we passed three investment needed.
The Governments years without a single lost time incident from our rough gas Energy Bill and Gas Generation Strategy right across the business.
This was storage facility in 2012 have confirmed a clear and continuing role particularly challenging in 2012 as for gas in the UKs medium to long-term significant work was undertaken at than in 2011. energy mix and we believe, reinforces the our Easington Terminal, to build the need for increased levels of seasonal gas reception and processing facilities for Early in 2012 we benefited from the storage in the UK.
We are particularly gas coming from Centrica Energys York widening spreads between summer and encouraged by the commitment of the offshore field.
winter gas prices which are a key driver Department of Energy & Climate Change The first cold spell of the 2012 winter, in of storage revenue.
However, at this level DECC to publish a review of the need for early December, saw our Rough storage the prices still remain below that needed storage support in the first half of2013.
facility once again withdrawing at full to invest in new storage and thats In the meantime we have continued to rates, demonstrating our key role within why our Baird and Caythorpe projects focus on strengthening the existing the Centrica Groups integrated energy have remained under review with no business by concentrating on our business and also the vital contribution major physical works undertaken underlying business performance, we make to the security of energy during the year.
processes and our overall efficiency.
Adjusted operating profit m For the year ended 31 December 2012 2011 240 Average SBU price pence 31.0 30.0 195 Gross revenue m 202 184 168 169 Adjusted operating profit m 89 75 From continuing operations 89 75 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 31 Business Review Operating Review hOw dId wE mEASuRE uP?
CEnTRICA STORAGE PERfORmAnCE mEASuRES CAn BE fOund AT CEnTRICA.
COm REPORT2012 Strong performance in a Improved operating profit challenging market environment Gross revenue increased by 10% in 2012 Centrica Storage performed well in 2012, to 202 million 2011: 184 million.
This with strong commercial performance reflects the higher summer winter price securing the benefits of higher summer differentials and benefits from the high winter price differentials seen in the first NRV carried into 2012.
SBU revenue was half of the 2012 13 storage year.
The Rough 4% higher in 2012 with the calendar year asset achieved reliability of 92% in the year SBU price increasing to 31.0 pence 2011: 96%, with performance in the first 2011: 30.0 pence.
Operating profit half similar to that experienced in the increased by 19% to 89 million 2011: 75 first half of 2011 but with the second half million benefiting from higher revenue and impacted by a small number of production strong cost control, partially offset by outages.
These outages had limited inflationary pressures and additional commercial impact and across the year depreciation resulting from previous asset availability was good when required investment in Rough.
From 2013 the to meet customer demand.
business will benefit from additional revenue streams associated with gas The high level of stock carry-over into 2012 health and safety processing and condensate sales at the combined with modest withdrawal in the newly constructed York processing plant.
first quarter of the year meant that the Net reMaIns one of oUr Reservoir Volume NRV was at relatively Challenging economics for new COrE PriOritiES: thiS high levels again going into the 2012 projects injection season.
A strong injection season We retain the option to invest in our Baird relentless foCUs over the summer was followed by the final and Caythorpe gas storage projects.
quarter of 2012 experiencing withdrawals However, the continuing relatively low has enaBled the more in line with seasonal normal levels.
levels of summer winter price differentials As a result the NRV level carried into 2013 and reduced price volatility, combined with BUsIness to was above the five year average level but an uncertain longer term outlook, mean below the level at the start of 2012. that market conditions remain challenging ContInUe Its strong for these opportunities.
With the country Health and safety remains one of our core reCord throUgh becoming increasingly dependent on priorities: this relentless focus has enabled imported gas we believe that more the business to continue its strong record 2012, with nO LOSt seasonal storage is required in the UK.
through 2012, with no lost time incidents However we will only invest in new projects recorded for more than three years, tIMe InCIdents if the returns are appropriate for the level of corresponding to over 5 million man hours risk undertaken.
We may require a support reCorded for More of work without an incident.
mechanism to underpin the investment Forward seasonal spreads have and welcomed the announcement by than three years.
narrowed since the first quarter DECC in December that it is planning to The business saw higher summer winter carry out further investigation into possible price differentials in the final quarter of intervention mechanisms to encourage 2011 and the first quarter of 2012 new storage investment.
We look forward compared to the first quarter of 2011, to the outcome of this review, with initial which resulted in an achieved 2012 13 findings expected in spring of 2013. storage year Standard Bundled Unit SBU price of 33.9 pence 2011 12: 25.2 pence.
However, price differentials subsequently narrowed, reflecting colder than normal weather in the summer months and an expectation of LNG availability for the winter.
Forward spreads remain relatively narrow for the 2013 14 storage year, with price volatility remaining at subdued levels.
32 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Business Review Operating Review dIreCt energy we have BUIlt a good platforM for growth In north aMerICa, wIth strong CapaBIlItIes In energy soUrCIng and sUpply, rIsk ManageMent, energy servICes and UpstreaM gas and power.
Chris Weston Managing Director, Direct Energy efficiencies from increased scale across leading prepaid product and flexible our focus for the year our operations, while remaining solidly time-of-use offerings enabled by smart committed to deepening customer technology and we plan to expand this ahead is to make relationships by delivering innovative product range.
progress against our By operating across the entire energy Strong organic growth and acquisitions value chain, from sourcing to supply, strategic priorities as have positioned Direct Energy as one we create stability and value for our of North Americas largest energy and customers.
As North Americas we position ourselves energy-related services providers.
We will importance grows with an increasingly continue to focus investment in markets global gas market, we will continue to to meet the energy and that provide an environment conducive pursue value-creating opportunities that to retail competition and the consumer enhance our existing portfolio of natural services needs of benefits that come from having a choice gas production, power generation and customers now and of providers particularly in the competitive wholesale and retail energy services.
retail markets in Texas and in the US Our values of being simple, friendly and in the future.
direct remain at the heart of our approach We see continued progress and opportunity to customers as we strive to offer products We continue to build an integrated North for innovation and differentiation through and services that make a difference in American business with leading smart meter technologies, demand peopleslives.
positions in competitive markets and are response and energy efficiency related investing for growth across the four lines products and services.
We will also maintain our responding favourably to our industryfocus on cost reduction and seek Adjusted operating profit m For the year ended 31 December 2012 2011 331 312 Adjusted operating profit m 331 312 Residential energy and services accounts 234 year end, 000 5,856 5,647 215 187 Business energy electricity volumes TWh 51.4 46.4 153 Total net proven and probable reserves mmboe 108 109 From continuing operations 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 33 Business Review Operating Review reduced by 45% to 0.11 per 100,000 hours In the US North East, our business is Further profit growth in a low gas worked 2011: 0.20 and we had no materially larger following the integration priceenvironment significant process safety events in 2012. of Gateway and Vectren Source, both Direct Energy delivered another strong acquired in 2011, and the acquisition of performance in 2012, in a low gas price Benefiting from enhanced scale a further 207,000 residential and 38,000 environment.
Gross revenue decreased by in residential energy supply small business accounts from New York 2% to 6,015 million 2011: 6,117 million Direct Energy Residential made good based energy retailers Energetix and but operating profit increased by 6% to progress during the year, with organic NYSEG Solutions from Iberdrola USA, 331 million 2011: 312 million.
There was customer growth in the US North East, completed in August.
The business also no material impact resulting from currency the successful integration of recent experienced organic growth in 2012 due movements during the year.
acquisitions and strong increased customer to strong sales performance, despite the The business has benefited from organic satisfaction levels across the business.
expected roll-off of low margin aggregation customer growth in the US North East Overall customer accounts increased to customers acquired as part of the Vectren and the small business customer segment, 3.5 million 2011: 3.4 million despite Source acquisition.
We now have 1.4million and from the successful integration of incurring further customer losses as a customers in the region, up from 1.1million recent acquisitions.
We also continue to result of the regulatory environment in at the end of2011.
drive operational efficiencies throughout Ontario.
Gross revenue decreased by 2% the business, and the move of our North to 2,357 million 2011: 2,416 million, Our Texas residential business is also American headquarters to Houston, while operating profit was broadly flat at benefiting from increased scale, following combined with overall headcount reductions, 156 million 2011: 161 million reflecting the First Choice Power acquisition in 2011. has delivered significant benefits.
We will the decline in the Ontario business, offset Our prepaid Power to Go product continue to drive efficiencies, with further by the positive impacts of customer growth continues to attract customers, as well as rationalisation of IT resources due to be and acquisitions in the US.
We are also being viewed positively by regulators, who undertaken in 2013.
The health and safety seeing the benefits from operational welcome the expansion of choice for all of our employees and customers continues efficiencies and billing system rationalisation, customer groups.
In October, we launched to be one of our core priorities.
The LTIFR with increased scale in the US NorthEast.
a 100% renewable tariff, providing environmentally conscious customers with wind power from Texas.
We delivered good sales performance in the US during the year, underpinned by a we expeCt oUr continued focus on channel efficiency, downstreaM while our consolidated billing platform has helped reduce costs and bad debt.
Churn BUsIness to BeCoMe reduction continues to remain a focus both in Texas and the US NorthEast.
a More MaterIal We no longer view our residential energy part of the groUp supply business in Ontario as core, following the implementation of the Energy over the next three Consumer Protection Act ECPA, which makes it difficult to sell to new customers to fIve years.
We continue to actively manage the decline of our customer base and have more than halved operating costs since 2010 through aggressive cost management.
In total we lost 95,000 customer accounts in Ontario during 2012 and now have just over 200,000 customers in the region, around half the amount we had at the end of 2010.
In 2012, Ontario We will continue to look for contributed less than 20% of our residential opportunities to grow our business energy operating profit and this is expected across North America by focusing on to fall to around 5% in 2013.
In Alberta, growing organically and through our profitability rose, with increases in regulated successful bolt-on acquisition strategy, rates leading to higher churn levels in the delivering scale and synergies.
34 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Business Review Operating Review dIreCt energy ContInUed our values of being simple, friendly and direct remain at the heart of our approach hOw dId wE mEASuRE uP?
dIRECT EnERGy PERfORmAnCE mEASuRES CAn BE fOund AT CEnTRICA.
COm REPORT2012 low margin regulated business and of America HWA, completed in March, growth in the higher margin competitive provides the necessary licences to offer customer base.
protection plan products across the United States.
The number of contract Focus on small businesses relationships increased by 5% during 2012, leading to volume growth in mainly reflecting the HWA acquisition.
business energy supply Direct Energy Business again delivered Our Canadian business was impacted strong growth in the year, in a highly by warmer than normal weather and competitive market.
Electricity volumes industrial action by a number of our rose 11% to 51.4TWh 2011: 46.4TWh, unionised technicians in the first half of while gas volumes increased by 11% to the year.
The labour issues have now been resolved, resulting in a significant 793mmth 2011: 714mmth.
Higher volumes improvement to our cost base and more in the small commercial business sector flexible working arrangements, improving are driving much of the growth, and profit our service tocustomers.
in this sector nearly doubled in 2012, reflecting strong sales and scale benefits Continued weak economic conditions, resulting from recent acquisitions.
The low consumer confidence and a slow larger commercial segment is increasingly housing market have impacted underlying competitive, however our retention rates growth in the US services business, remain high in this sector.
leading to less lead generation and Gross revenue in business energy supply reduced demand for home services decreased by 2% to 2,690 million 2011: products.
However we continue to focus 2,748 million, with the impact of lower on delivering high levels of customer commodity prices more than offsetting satisfaction and our overall Net Promoter volume growth.
Operating profit increased Score increased to 39 2011: 28. to 129 million 2011: 110 million while Gross revenue increased by 2% to 532 operating margin increased to 4.8% 2011: million 2011: 520 million and operating 4.0%, reflecting the positive impact of profit increased to 33 million 2011: 28 operational efficiencies and a higher million, with operational efficiencies and proportion of small business customers.
cost control driving much of this growth.
Strengthening the services Solid upstream and wholesale platform performance in a low price Direct Energy Services is performing well, environment gaining market share in a challenging Direct Energy Upstream continues to economic environment, with many of our face a low wholesale price environment, competitors experiencing losses or credit although the Henry Hub natural gas price downgrades.
Our nationwide on-demand recovered slightly during the second half franchise has provided scale advantages, of the year from the record low levels seen while the acquisition of Home Warranty Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 35 Business Review Operating Review in the first half.
Alberta gas production in both energy and services.
Upstream, volumes fell by 3% to 549mmth 2011: natural gas prices continue to be the health and 567mmth, with the achieved gas price constrained by the impact of shale but falling to C$3.8 MCF 2011: C$4.6 MCF.
production expansion opportunities are safety of oUr The price of liquids remains relatively available and we will pursue them if value high however, and the acquisition of can be created.
eMployees and the Carrot Creek assets, completed We continue to look for opportunities to in January, meant that oil and liquids CUstoMers grow our business across North America.
production volumes nearly doubled to Downstream, we will continue to focus on ContInUes to 1.1mmboe 2011: 0.7mmboe.
We added growing organically, through churn 10mmboe of reserves in North America reduction and differentiation.
We will also Be one of oUr over the year meaning that after taking continue with our successful bolt-on account of production, 2P reserves acquisition strategy, delivering scale and Core prIorItIes remained broadly flat at 108mmboe synergies, and will consider larger 2011: 109mmboe.
Over the next three to five years we are targeting a Texas power generation volumes increased doubling in profitability of our North America by 21% to 6,336GWh 2011: 5,247GWh, downstream business through organic with good asset availability and optimisation performance.
Texas experienced more growth and acquisition, with Direct Energy normal weather conditions during the downstream becoming a more material summer months, meaning that spikes part of the Group.
We will also look for in power prices were less extreme than opportunities upstream, with the potential in the exceptional conditions in 2011. for exports over time.
In each case, we will only invest where we see value and a good Overall, upstream and wholesale gross fit with our Group-wide capabilities.
revenue was 436 million 2011: 433 million while operating profit was flat at 13 million 2011: 13 million.
Well placed to further grow and develop our North American business We have built a good platform for growth in North America, with strong capabilities in energy sourcing and supply, risk management, energy services and upstream gas and power.
In 2013, we should continue to benefit from recent residential acquisitions, with integration now mostly complete, while we have created a more efficient operating base 36 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Review Corporate responsIBIlIty revIew oUr BUsIness Involves Us In a wIde range of soCIal, envIronMental and ethICal IssUes.
Mary Francis CBE Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and cover CR issues at mainstream complaint-handling.
We assist vulnerable Centricas corporate shareholder presentations.
We participate in customers by advising them on energy the FTSE4Good and the Carbon Disclosure efficiency, through direct financial support responsibility ambition is Project CDP indices and, in 2012, again and other means.
featured in the CDP Leadership Global 500 to be the most trusted Securing affordable energy as the top-scoring UK utility company.
We help secure UK energy supplies energy company.
Our priorities through investments in North Sea oil and Treating customers with fairness gas.
Our Cygnus project will, at peak Governance We strive to build trust with our customers, production in 2015, supply nearly 1.5 Centricas business principles are based government and other stakeholders.
Our offshore wind farm on trust, integrity and openness.
Our In 2012, we maintained our efforts to make investments are progressing with first strong governance and internal control buying energy easier by simplifying bills power from our Lincs wind farm in 2012 systems help us to apply our values and tariff structures, moving to single tier and consent granted for the Race Bank consistently, reconcile conflicting priorities pricing and providing support for project.
We also have agreements to responsibly and keep corporate vulnerable customers.
We also engaged import pipeline gas from Norway and responsibility CR integral to our activities.
fully with Ofgem, the UK regulator.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee We aim to keep prices fair by helping New forms of energy can prompt social ensures that Centrica effectively manages households save energy and reducing and environmental concerns.
All our its impact on society, the environment operating costs.
A slight fall in wholesale gas production and energy generation and the wider economy.
The Executive electricity prices allowed us to decrease activities involve consultation with local Committee has overall responsibility for prices by 5% in January 2012.
However, communities and stakeholders at national implementing CR strategy across the wholesale gas prices are now 13% level and are managed carefully to avoid Group and individual business units higher than in winter 2011 12, while adverse impacts.
identify which material issues concern costs for upgrading the UKs grid and Reducing carbon emissions their stakeholders and assess the impact meeting carbon reduction targets have We manage our impact on climate change of their operations.
increased by around 50 per customer.
by helping customers reduce energy use, We therefore increased prices for domestic Stakeholder engagement investing in lower carbon power generation gas and electricity in November by an During 2012, we kept in regular contact and cutting property, fleet and travel average of 6%.
with stakeholders, including governments, emissions.
regulators, investors, business partners, We have improved service standards Energy efficiency is the best way to cut local communities and non-governmental significantly in recent years.
We track customers energy use and emissions.
organisations, to maintain a comprehensive perception of our service with net promoter We promote this by insulating homes and understanding of their views about our scores, which measure customers installing more efficient boilers.
Additionally, business and its wider impacts.
Our CR willingness to recommend us.
British Gas provides products that enable Advisory Group continues to provide Our strategy of listening to customer customers to heat and light their homes valuable external feedback and guidance.
concerns has encouraged a UK focus on with lower carbon emissions.
Over the We maintain a dialogue with socially fairness, simplicity and honesty.
This has past three years we have enabled responsible investment organisations led to simpler bills and more openness in downstream carbon savings equivalent Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 37 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Review to a 1.8GW wind farm.
British Gas will also Organisational changes to reflect the help deliver the UK Governments Green evolving nature of our business resulted Deal, which offers customers financial help in 2,459 employees leaving the Group.
Achieving such change is never an easy process and we made every effort to Reducing power generation emissions support those affected, wherever possible requires less use of fossil fuels.
Centrica redeploying people, or supporting them plans to maintain its interest in lower in finding other work.
carbon power generation and to invest when it makes economic sense.
While Employees receive regular updates on we are not pursuing nuclear new build, Company news and performance through we continue to provide lower carbon newsletters, emails, online sites and power through our 20% off-take from meetings with Executive Committee the UKs existing nuclear power stations.
Eligible employees are encouraged to participate in employee In 2012 our Group carbon intensity share schemes, which have good rates reduced by 10%, largely reflecting of participation.
Centricas mothballing of UK gas-fired 89.7% power stations for commercial reasons.
Diversity Employee retention rate for 2012 We are committed to equal opportunity We reduce property, fleet and travel and diversity and will not tolerate emissions by raising employee awareness, discrimination.
We give full consideration making offices more energy efficient, to employment applications from disabled investing in lower-carbon vehicles and people.
If an employee becomes disabled, providing alternatives to business travel.
wherever possible, we offer support, We aim to cut emissions from buildings, retraining, equipment and facilities to keep company vehicles and travel in our core them with us.
We encourage the retention business by 20% by 2015, from the 2007 and recruitment of older people.
In 2012, we achieved a 2% womens representation at all levels is reduction year on year.
from these activities were 91,988 tonnes.
Community investment We also measure our absolute emissions, In 2012, we contributed 233.6 million which include emissions from power a 40% reduction but a reminder of the directly to supporting vulnerable customers generation.
In 2012, they totalled 7.2 million need for ongoing rigour in road safety and community and social projects.
There were no fatal incidents The majority of our contributions were among Centrica Group employees or Making safety a core value through mandatory programmes such associated third parties.
Safety is one of the Groups core priorities.
as the Warm Home Discount and the We accept our responsibility to protect the Community Energy Saving Programme.
Our employees health and safety of employees, contractors, We also contributed 9.3 million to We had an average of 38,642 employees customers and the wider public.
charitable organisations using the London in 2012 with a retention rate of 89.7% Benchmarking Group methodology, We reinforce our proactive safety culture 2011: 89.5%.
We continued to focus on including establishing strategic through strong leadership and awarenessskills, development and employee partnerships such as between British raising programmes.
We focus on process engagement to make Centrica a rewarding Gas and Shelter.
safety in our upstream operations and on place to work.
Continuous learning and the safety of the public and our engineers development is essential to ensure downstream.
We had no significant employees and leaders are equipped to process safety events in 2012. grow our business.
Our standard lost-time injury frequency In 2012, we conducted a Group-wide rate reduced to 0.20 per 100,000 hours employee engagement survey.
We continued to focus engagement score, benchmarked against on road safety.
Our low severity incident our peers, saw a slight decline but rate reduced by 33% to 5.0 per million km remained above median.
We had six high severity incidents fOR mORE InfORmATIOn SEE ThE OPERATInG REvIEw On PAGES 22 TO 35 38 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties prInCIpal rIsks and UnCertaIntIes assessIng and ManagIng rIsk Is a fUndaMental part of day to day BUsIness ManageMent aCross CentrICa.
Nick Luff Group Finance Director Such risks may result in widespread New financial regulation was introduced the risks we face in distress and harm, significant disruption to in the US and Europe in the wake of the operations and damage to our reputation.
Governments and a rapidly changing The cost related to the recovery, clean up regulators, often under public pressure, and or resultant litigation could have have also stepped up levels of landscape continue to a material financial impact.
We also have enforcement and intervention.
non-controlled interests in organisations evolve over time.
2013 Retail sector competitiveness continues with inherently high hazards, relating to the to face regulatory scrutiny, as the costs presents our organisation exploration and production of oil and gas of higher wholesale commodity prices and nuclear power generation.
are passed on to customers, just as with more challenges.
Brand and reputation disposable incomes are falling and Failure to follow our global business deepening recessionary impacts strong governance and a principles of operating professionally, continue to be felt.
clear risk strategy equip fairly and with integrity could harm our Public statements made by governing reputation, as could real or perceived political bodies can cause concern.
One us for uncertainties ahead.
Rising prices, of the challenges would be the abolition increased political pressures and deep of existing or future green subsidies, The following risks could impact our future recessionary impacts have all increased as occurred in the UK solar industry performance.
The list is not exhaustive the level of media coverage.
We need to and in other energy sources around the and items are not prioritised.
The list, ensure that we clearly communicate our world, such as the end of free carbon and the nature of the risks, may change future strategy to key stakeholders, in allowances in 2012 which will impact during the year.
order to avoid an adverse reaction and loss our upstream business.
of confidence in the Group.
Health, safety, security and Such developments may have a material environment HSSE Social media now allows consumers and adverse effect on our business, We face four principal categories of HSSE pressure groups to mount damaging direct operations, financial condition and ability risks associated with our operations: action and other campaigns more readily to meet long-term growth aspirations, than before.
an incident resulting in one or more especially if any case of compliance failure fatalities or multiple injuries at an owned, receives extensive media coverage.
Failure to restore public confidence could operated or other facility where the impact Group revenues.
Public exposure Strategic growth organisation has an interest: to criticism could damage our brand, Strategic issues, including capital increase governmental or regulatory an incident which results in significant investment in mergers, acquisitions, intervention and reduce access to environmental damage or compliance disposals, market position, climate change, financial capital.
breach: sustainable development and new Legislation and regulation technologies, are affected by the global an incident which results in a fatality or Energy markets in the UK, North America economy.
As we implement our refreshed major injury to members of the public: and mainland Europe are closely regulated.
strategic priorities to deliver our vision to and Legal or regulatory changes could impact be the leading integrated energy company a security event, requiring activation our ability to achieve financial goals.
with customers at our core, we face an of our crisis management plan and or increasingly uncertain environment.
Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 39 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties Challenges include the intensifying There are also a number of contractual could arise from inadequate or inconsistent uncertainty in the world economy reflected capacity contracts, the economic value implementation of IT security controls, by concerns over further economic of which depends on volatile spread could seriously affect the Groups deterioration, pressure from higher relationships.
reputation, lead to legal action and or wholesale prices, increased competition, outages that could cause financial and Change management reduced demand and recessionary operational loss.
The level of change experienced by our impacts, all of which contribute to making business is significant, deriving from: People market conditions challenging.
Key to our ability to successfully deliver capital projects: The rise of the digital economy is adding to business plans and strategic growth is competitive pressures and with the internet IT change programmes: and the attraction, retention and succession entering a second phase dominated by planning of senior management and organisational change.
mobile devices, the barriers to market individuals with key skills.
This applies entry are falling and customer loyalties can We assess large capital projects as a to customer service, the delivery of new change swiftly.
In the UK market, smart means of growth.
Such large-scale systems and in particular to areas where meters represent one of the biggest initiatives carry complexity and could result there is strong competition for technical changes in the retail energy market since in the Group entering new markets, whilst and project management capability, such the 1970s.
British Gas will operate, not only exposing us to the risk of build quality as our upstream business.
in an energy market but in an energy issues, cost and timetable overruns, As we continue to change, the business services and advisory market open to unsuccessful development of partnership must be organised in the most effective non-traditional players.
opportunities and health, safety, security and efficient way possible to ensure its and environment failures.
Commodity costs cost base is as low as possible, so that Volatile commodity costs affect our ability Internal IT change programmes are equally we can offer customers competitive prices to price competitively and meet profit large and complex.
Work on existing and products.
This includes both cultural targets.
The Group buys a significant systems carries the risks of: and behavioural change as well as proportion of the gas to supply Britains ambitious technical-change programmes.
trying to deliver too much change and needs.
This position sets the Group apart over-stretching resources: As part of this, the Group also needs to from the other counterparts in the UK maintain good relations with trade unions, market.
To maintain supply and protect change being completed but systems primarily the Centrica Energy upstream against possible price increases much integrity being undermined and business operational workforce and British of this is procured in advance in order to threatening business continuity: and Gas engineers.
ensure a balanced supply and demand cost overruns and or expected benefits portfolio.
This relies heavily on seasonal Failure to maintain a high calibre, engaged not being realised.
and stable workforce could compromise Organisational change stems from internal achievement of the Groups strategy and There has been a significant impact from restructuring as we drive to make our could have a material adverse effect on its shale gas in North America where an business as efficient and effective as business, results of operations and overall immediate effect has been to lower possible, without detriment to our levels financial condition.
wholesale gas prices in the US and of customer service.
Our recent weaken the traditional links between gas announcements mean that the Group will and oil prices.
Such an emerging energy face a period of increased change activity source could influence global energy in 2013. markets over time, with the surplus of gas More InforMatIon affecting the current liquefied natural gas Information security LNG sector in particular.
Effective and secure information systems are essential for efficient management and Investment decisions key to Group accurate billing of customers, upstream strategic growth plans, particularly in operations and energy trading and respect of upstream assets such as hedging activities.
gas fields or power stations, are based on evaluations underpinned by forecasts The threat of cyber attacks against our of longer-term commodity price industry continues to escalate to similar Further information on risk development.
These reflect prevailing levels experienced by government management can be found in market prices and are supplemented agencies and financial institutions.
There the Annual Report and Accounts by assessments of underlying industry could be multiple sources of motivation for at centrica.
These risks, however, which 40 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Summary Financial Statements sUMMary groUp InCoMe stateMent 2012 2011 Exceptional Exceptional Business items and certain Results for Business items and certain Results for performance re-measurements the year performance re-measurements the year Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Group revenue 23,942 23,942 22,824 22,824 Cost of sales before exceptional items and certain re-measurements 18,676 18,676 17,959 17,959 Exceptional items 89 89 221 221 Re-measurement of energy contracts 603 603 437 437 Gross profit 5,266 514 5,780 4,865 658 4,207 Operating costs before exceptional items 2,844 2,844 2,750 2,750 Exceptional items 445 445 110 110 Share of profits losses in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation 140 6 134 93 26 67 Group operating profit 2,562 63 2,625 2,208 794 1,414 Net interest expense 183 183 146 146 Profit from continuing operations before taxation 2,379 63 2,442 2,062 794 1,268 Taxation on profit from continuing operations 1,029 140 1,169 810 16 826 Profit from continuing operations after taxation 1,350 77 1,273 1,252 810 442 Profit from discontinued operations 13 22 35 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations 56 56 Profit for the year 1,350 77 1,273 1,265 844 421 Earnings per ordinary share Pence Pence From continuing and discontinued operations: Basic 24.6 8.2 Diluted 24.4 8.1 From continuing operations: Basic 24.6 8.6 Diluted 24.4 8.5 Interim dividend paid per ordinary share 4.62 4.29 Final dividend proposed per ordinary share 11.78 11.11 000 000 Directors emoluments 8,799 8,772 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 41 Summary Financial Statements sUMMary groUp BalanCe sheet 2012 2011 31 December m m Non-current assets 15,812 13,973 Current assets 6,140 5,596 Current liabilities 6,492 6,270 Net current liabilities 352 674 Non-current liabilities 9,533 7,699 Net assets 5,927 5,600 Equity 5,927 5,600 sUMMary groUp stateMent of Changes In eqUIty 2012 2011 m m 1 January 5,600 5,819 Profit for the year 1,273 421 Other comprehensive loss income 196 81 6,677 6,321 Employee share schemes 66 57 Purchase of non-controlling interest 7 Dividends 816 762 Taxation 1 8 Exchange adjustments 1 1 31 December 5,927 5,600 sUMMary groUp Cash flow stateMent 2012 2011 31 December m m Cash generated from continuing operations 3,605 3,229 Net interest, taxation and other operating cash flows 785 892 Net cash flow from operating activities 2,820 2,337 Net cash flow from investing activities 2,558 1,400 Net cash flow from financing activities 190 907 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 452 30 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 479 451 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 931 479 The Summary Financial Statements on pages 40 to 41 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 27February 2013 and were signed below on its behalf by: Sam Laidlaw Nick Luff Chief Executive Group Finance Director 42 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Summary Governance and the narrative reports contain information from the Directors Independent Auditors Statement to the Report but not the full text of that report.
They do not contain members of Centrica plc sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the We have examined the Summary Financial Statements which results and state of affairs of the Group and of its policies and comprise the Summary Group Income Statement, Summary arrangements concerning the Directors remuneration as would Group Balance Sheet, Summary Group Statement of Changes in be provided by the Annual Report and Accounts.
Equity, Summary Group Cash Flow Statement and the Summary Remuneration Report.
The Annual Report and Accounts can be downloaded from the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Companys website at centrica.
com or can be obtained, free of The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review charge, from Equiniti, the Companys Registrars.
Shareholders and Summary Financial Statements in accordance with applicable may also elect to receive the Annual Report and Accounts instead United Kingdom law.
of the Summary Financial Statements for all future years.
Contact details for Equiniti can be found on page48.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the Dividends consistency of the Summary Financial Statements within the For 2012, an interim dividend of 4.62 pence per share was paid Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements with the on 14November 2012.
The Directors propose that, subject to full Annual Financial Statements, the Directors Report and the approval at the 2013 Annual General Meeting AGM, a final Remuneration Report, and their compliance with the relevant dividend of 11.78pence per share will be paid on 12 June 2013 to requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the those shareholders registered on 26 April 2013.
This would make regulations made thereunder.
a total dividend for the year of 16.4 pence per share 2011: We also read the other information contained in the Annual 15.4 pence pershare.
Review and Summary Financial Statements and consider the implications for our statement if we become aware of any Summary Corporate Governance Report apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the The Board believes that good corporate governance contributes Summary Financial Statements.
The other information comprises to Centricas performance.
A clearly defined framework of roles, only the Chairmans Statement and the other items listed on the responsibilities and delegated authorities is in place and this contentspage.
supports the Boards aim to deliver sustainable growth for the benefit of shareholders, employees and customers.
A report on This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and how the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Code were applied is set out in the Corporate Governance section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
Report in the Annual Report.
The Company complied fully with We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility the provisions set out in the Code throughout the year.
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this Board of Directors statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where The Directors consider that the Board leads and controls the expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Group effectively, has a robust governance structure and that no We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 individual or small group of individuals dominate the Boards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our reports on the decision-making.
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys full Annual Financial Statements describe the basis of Companys Articles of Association Articles, which are available on our audit opinions on those Financial Statements, the Directors the Companys website.
The Articles may be amended by special Report and the Directors Remuneration Report.
In addition, the Directors have responsibilities and duties under legislation, in particular the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion In our opinion the Summary Financial Statements are consistent The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its with the full Annual Financial Statements, the Directors Report approval which it reviewed against best practice in December and the Directors Remuneration Report of Centrica plc for the 2012 and concluded that no changes were necessary.
The full year ended 31 December 2012 and comply with the applicable schedule is available on the Companys website.
The Board requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates six Committees to oversee the standards of the Group: the regulations made thereunder.
Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility,  LLP Executive and Disclosure.
Each Committee is professionally Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors chaired and populated by an appropriate mix of Executive and or London 27 February 2013 Non-Executive Directors.
The Board reviews annually each Committees terms of reference and membership against best Annual Report practice as well as taking into account any relevant changes The Auditors have issued an unqualified report on the Annual in circumstances.
The full written terms of reference for the Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Committees can be found on the Companys website.
Report containing no statement under section 498 of the Board appointments, evaluation and development Companies Act 2006.
The Auditors Report in respect of The Chairmans Statement on pages 5 to 8 discusses the consistency between the Directors Report and the Group Companys corporate culture and practice as well as Board Financial Statements is also unqualified.
These Summary Financial composition, diversity, succession planning and evaluation.
Statements are a summary of the Annual Report and Accounts ThE full GOvERnAnCE And REmunERATIOn REPORTS CAn BE fOund In ThE AnnuAl REPORT AT CEnTRICA.
COm REPORT2012 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 43 Summary Governance The Board has agreed that each Director shall stand for reThe 2012 Remuneration Report has been designed to move appointment at each AGM.
Details of the Directors of the towards the new requirements for remuneration reporting as Company, including their biographies and their Board Committee proposed by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills memberships, are set out on pages 46 and 47.
All new Directors BIS as part of their consultation process.
The Directors appointed to the Board receive a comprehensive induction remuneration table on page 45 reflects the new requirements.
programme tailored to meet their individual needs.
The Chairman As noted in the 2011 Remuneration Report, during the first quarter and General Counsel & Company Secretary are responsible for of 2012, the Committee adjusted the measurement and weighting delivering an effective induction programme for newly appointed of the key performance drivers within the existing incentive Directors, specially tailored to meet the individuals requirements.
We also introduced a formal mechanism for This will comprise briefings from members of the Executive team clawback of deferred rewards if it is subsequently discovered that on key areas of the business including the internal audit function, results have been achieved by behaviour which fails to reflect the an overview of the Groups risk management processes, the key governance and values of the business.
We have engaged with a risks facing the business and a briefing in respect of the corporate number of shareholders during the year on our remuneration governance framework within Centrica.
Ongoing development arrangements and remain committed to holding early discussions and training is also provided to all Directors at Board and with shareholders in advance of any future changes.
During the year, Directors received regular updates and presentations on changes and developments to the Total variable earnings opportunity in 2012 remained unchanged business and to the legislative and regulatory environments in from last year and the performance targets were both stretching which the Group operates.
and aligned with the Groups strategic objectives.
The key performance drivers are based on simple measures and the The Board considers the annual review of the Board, its arrangements require substantial deferral of short-term reward.
Committees and Directors as an essential part of good corporate governance, with the use of an external facilitator at least once As we move forward, the Committee intends to continue to strive every three years.
On each occasion, the Board has received for greater simplicity and transparency, to ensure alignment positive reports and has adopted recommendations to improve between the Groups strategic direction and the measures of Board, Committee and individual Director performance.
A full performance, and to maintain a responsible approach to both fixed discussion on the implementation of the 2011 external evaluations and variable remuneration, which respects both the social climate findings and the internal evaluation conducted in December 2012 in which we operate and the demands of our business model.
can be found in the Chairmans Statement on page 5.
The Committee firmly believes that Centricas remuneration Internal Control is and will remain in compliance with the principles of the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control Code and that its remuneration arrangements appropriately and risk management and considers this to be fundamental to the incentivise and reward shareholder value creation but do not achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
The key function encourage excessive risk-taking.
of the Audit Committee is to review the effectiveness of the Components of Executive Remuneration Companys financial reporting and internal controls together with There was no change to the target and maximum bonus the procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of opportunity for 2012. risks.
A full description of the Groups risk management and internal control is detailed in the Corporate Governance Report in Part of the bonus earned under the Annual Incentive Scheme the Annual Report.
AIS for the previous year is compulsorily deferred into Centrica shares deferred shares.
During 2012, 40% of AIS earned in The Board, with the advice of the Audit Committee, has reviewed respect of 2011 for the Chief Executive and 30% for the other the effectiveness of the system of internal control, for the period executives was compulsorily deferred.
Executives are also given from 1 January 2012 to the date of this Review, and is satisfied the opportunity to make an additional voluntary deferral of AIS into that the Group complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
The maximum total deferral The Board will continue routinely to challenge management in that may be made, including the compulsory deferral, is 50% of order to ensure that the system of internal control is constantly the maximum AIS opportunity which may be earned for a year.
improving and remains fit for purpose.
Deferred and investment shares that are held for three years will Summary Remuneration Report be matched to the extent that a long-term performance condition The principal role of the Remuneration Committee the ismet.
Committee is to determine and make recommendations to For awards made from 2010, matching shares were structured the Board on the Companys framework and broad policy for the as nil-cost options for all UK resident participants.
remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, the Companys Executive Directors and other senior executives executives.
The In 2012, Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS allocations equal remuneration policy aims to deliver a competitive package which to 200% of base pay were awarded to Executive Directors and, attracts and retains high quality executives, whilst placing a strong at lower levels, to other senior executives.
emphasis on performance, achieving strategic objectives and In respect of LTIS awards from 2010 these were structured as delivering sustainable value to shareholders.
The remuneration nil-cost options for all UK resident participants.
44 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Summary Governance The Executive Directors are also eligible, on the same basis as Sam Laidlaw, Mark Hanafin and Nick Luff are entitled to receive a other employees, to participate in the Companys HMRCsalary supplement of 40% of base pay, or participate in the CUPS approved Sharesave Scheme and Share Incentive Plan.
Phil Bentley and Chris Weston participate in the Centrica Pension The table below sets out the core remuneration package for Plan, a contributory final salary arrangement, and in the Centrica Executive Directors and summarises the vesting criteria and Unfunded Pension Scheme CUPS defined benefit section.
performance conditions in respect of the AIS, Deferred and Matching Share Scheme DMSS and LTIS.
Summary of remuneration elements for Executive Directors Element Opportunity Objective and link to strategy Current performance measures Changes for 2013 Base pay Salaries are reviewed annually, Reflects the role and sustained value of the Not applicable.
Base salaries will be taking account of performance, individual in terms of skills, experience and reviewed during the market conditions and pay contribution.
course of 2013. in the Group as a whole.
Current salaries were originally set in 2010.
Retirement Executive Directors are entitled Positioned to ensure broad competitiveness Not applicable.
benefits to participate in a Centrica with market practice.
pension arrangement or to receive a salary supplement in lieu of pension of 40% of base pay.
Other Entitlements include car or Positioned to ensure broad competitiveness Not applicable.
benefits car allowance, life assurance with market practice.
premiums, medical benefits and financial advice.
Benefits are subject to financial limits as set out in appropriate policies.
Annual Chief Executive Designed to reward the delivery of key 70% based on Economic Profit EP.
strategic priorities for the year.
30% based on strategic objectives aligned Scheme Other Executive Directors These priorities position the Group well to business priorities.
for strong future performance, reinforcing Half the maximum is payable the importance of balancing growth with for on-target performance.
economic profit returns in a business which is more vertically integrated and capital intensive.
If overall business performance is not deemed satisfactory, the individuals bonus for the year may be reduced or forfeited, at the discretion of the Committee.
Deferred Mandatory deferral of 40% of Assists with employee retention and Absolute aggregate EP over the No change.
and AIS award for Chief Executive incentivises an appropriate balance between performance period: minimum 2.6bn Matching and 30% for other Executive short-term performance and long-term value and maximum 3.4bn provides one or Share Directors.
Where Scheme performance falls between stated points, Additional deferral opportunity Encourages sustainable high performance DMSS vesting is calculated on a straight line basis.
to take the total deferral up and discourages peaks and troughs.
to 50% of maximum bonus All deferred awards can be clawed back if it opportunity.
is subsequently discovered that the results Up to two matching shares for have been achieved by behaviour which fails each deferred share subject to to reflect the governance and values of the performance over three years.
Long Term Up to 200% of base pay.
Provides a direct link between remuneration 35% based on EPS with 25% vesting No change.
Incentive and Key Performance Indicators KPIs, for achieving growth of RPI 9% and full Scheme reinforcing the desire for sustainable high vesting requiring RPI 30%.
LTIS performance over the long-term.
35% based on absolute aggregate EP If overall performance is not deemed over performance period with 25% satisfactory, the award for any year may vesting for achieving 2.6bn and full be reduced or forfeited, at the discretion vesting requiring 3.4bn.
30% based on non-financial KPI dashboard.
TSR performance against the FTSE 100 Index acting as a positive or negative multiplier: 0.667x multiple for Index -7% per annum and 1.5x multiple for Index 7% per annum capped at the face value of the award.
Where performance falls between stated points, vesting is calculated on a straight line basis.
Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 45 Summary Governance Remuneration tables Directors remuneration Cash payments Long-term in lieu of pension incentives Total Total and contributions Benefits and LTIS and remuneration remuneration Base pay fees to DB plans other cash Cash AIS Deferred AIS DMSS matching 2012 2011 restated 000 000 i 000 ii 000 000 iii 000 iv 000 v 000 vi Chief Executive Sam Laidlaw 950 285 71 185 855 2,613 4,959 4,967 Executive Directors vii Phil Bentley 635 225 46 635 1,549 3,090 2,064 viii Mark Hanafin 575 173 35 23 431 1,358 2,595 2,778 Nick Luff 610 183 21 145 458 1,437 2,854 2,840 viii Chris Weston 510 167 403 224 383 1,254 2,941 2,798 3,280 1,033 576 1,212 2,127 8,211 16,439 15,447 Chairman Sir Roger Carr 490 490 490 Non-Executive Directors Dame Helen Alexander 85 Margherita Della Valle 65 65 65 Mary Francis 105 105 105 Lesley Knox 85 85 Andrew Mackenzie 65 65 65 Ian Meakins 65 65 65 Paul Rayner 88 88 88 963 963 963 Total remuneration 4,243 1,033 576 1,212 2,127 8,211 17,402 16,410 i Contributions into the defined benefit pension plan for Phil Bentley and Chris Weston, calculated using the BIS methodology of 20 times the increase in the accrued pension for the year are included in the table above.
The table excludes CUPS defined contribution unfunded promises.
ii Benefits and other cash include: car, health and medical, financial planning and life assurance premiums: and benefits and expenses for Chris Weston under the terms of his international assignment agreement and for his relocation from Canada to the US.
iii Each Executive Director has deferred up to 50% of their maximum AIS potential on a gross basis and invested these funds into DMSS.
iv The long-term incentives include a forecast of the value of the LTIS awards due to vest in April 2013, relating to the three-year performance period ending in 2012, and a forecast of the value of the DMSS matching awards due to vest in April 2013, relating to the three-year performance period ending in 2012.
The share price used to calculate the forecasted value was the three month average to 31 December 2012 328.6p per share.
The LTIS awards were valued using the latest TSR projection as at 1 February 2013, which was 75.6%, and the projected EPS performance outcome of 0%.
The DMSS awards were valued using the projected EP performance outcome of 100%.
v The following are excluded from the table above: ESOS options, Sharesave, the value of any shares awarded under the Share Incentive Plan and the value of dividend equivalent shares to be calculated at vesting in respect of LTIS and DMSS matching awards.
vi The 2011 total remuneration figures have been recalculated and restated based on the BIS methodology for calculating total emoluments.
Consequently, the value of the long-term incentive awards vesting in 2012 has been included in the total remuneration for 2011. vii The Company announced on 27 February 2013 that Phil Bentley will step down as Managing Director of British Gas on 30 June 2013.
Details of the termination arrangements are provided in the Annual Report and on the Companys website.
viii Chris Weston exercised 112,330 ESOS options during 2012, with an exercise price of 130.50p per share.
The share price on the date of exercise was 319.60p per share and consequently the gain on exercise was 212,416.
Mark Hanafin and Chris Weston exercised 4,727 Sharesave options in 2012 with an exercise price of 193.54p per share.
The share price on the dates of exercise were respectively 323.50p per share and 308.60p per share and consequently the gains on exercise were respectively 6,143 and 5,439.
TSR five year FTSE 100 Index The following compares the Companys TSR performance with that of the FTSE 100 Index for the five years ended 31 December 2012.
TSR five year FTSE 100 Index unaudited Centrica and FTSE 100 Index 130 110 90 70 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 FTSE 100 return index C Cen ent tri rica ca r re et tu ur rn n in ind fide ex x Source: Alithos Limited, 31 December 2007 100 46 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Summary Governance Board of dIreCtors and senIor exeCUtIves Board of Directors 1.
Mary Francis CBE Chairman 66 Managing Director, British Gas 54 Senior Independent Director 64 Sir Roger joined the Board as a NonPhil joined Centrica as Group Finance Mary joined the Board on 22 June 2004 Executive Director on 1 January 2001.
Director on 13 September 2000, a position and is Senior Independent Director, He was appointed Chairman of the he held until the end of February 2007 Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Board in May 2004 and is Chairman when he was appointed Managing Committee and Deputy Chairman of the of the Nominations Committee.
Phil was also Nominations Committee.
In October 2012 2011, he was appointed president of Managing Director, Europe between she was appointed to the Board of Swiss the CBI and a member of the UK Prime July 2004 and September 2006.
He will Reinsurance Company Ltd and she has Ministers Business Advisory Group.
stand down from his role as Managing been proposed for appointment to the He remains deputy chairman and senior Director of British Gas and as a Director board of the Swiss Re Group, subject to independent director of the Court of the of Centrica plc on 30 June 2013.
He was election at their AGM in April 2013.
He is also a senior appointed as a non-executive director a senior adviser to Chatham House and adviser to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and of IMI plc in October 2012 and will take chair of governors of James Allens Girls a trustee of the Landau Forte Charitable up the position of chairman of their audit School.
She is a former non-executive Trust.
He has previously held a number committee from May 2013. director of Aviva plc, Cable & Wireless of senior appointments including Communications Plc, the Bank of England, 4.
Margherita Della Valle chairman of Mitchells & Butlers plc and Alliance & Leicester plc and St. Modwen Non-Executive Director 47 Cadbury plc.
He is a fellow of the Royal Properties plc.
She is a former director Margherita joined the Board on 1 January Society for the encouragement of the general of the Association of British 2011 and is Deputy Chairman of the Audit Arts, Manufacturers and Commerce Insurers, and was a senior civil servant in Committee.
She will become Chairman and a visiting fellow to the Said Business the Treasury and the Prime Ministers Office.
of the Audit Committee in July 2013.
Throughout his career October 2010 she was appointed group 6.
Mark Hanafin he has served on a number of external financial controller of Vodafone Group Plc, Managing Director, Centrica Energy 53 committees including the Higgs prior to which she was chief financial Mark joined Centrica as Managing Committee on Corporate Governance officer for the groups European region Director, Centrica Energy on 14 July 2008. and Business for New Europe.
from April 2007 to October 2010 and chief He was appointed as a non-executive 2.
Sam Laidlaw financial officer of Vodafone Italy from 2004 director of EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Chief Executive 57 to 2007.
Previously she joined Omnitel Group Limited in November 2009.
Sam joined Centrica as Chief Executive Pronto Italia in Italy in 1994 and held Previously he spent 21 years with Royal various consumer marketing positions in on 1 July 2006.
He is Chairman of the Dutch Shell, most recently as CEO of Shell business analytics and customer base Executive Committee and the Disclosure Energy North America in Houston.
Prior management prior to moving to finance.
In January 2008, he was to joining Shell, he worked for General Omnitel was acquired by Vodafone Group appointed a non-executive director of Electric Company GEC having qualified in 2000.
HSBC Holdings plc and in December as a chartered engineer.
2010 he was appointed as the lead non-executive director on the board of the Department for Transport.
He was also a member of the UK Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group.
Previously he was executive vice president of the Chevron Corporation, chief executive officer at Enterprise Oil and president and chief operating officer at Amerada Hess.
He is a trustee of the medical charity RAFT.
Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 47 Summary Governance 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 Board of Directors Senior Executives 7.
Grant Dawson Non-Executive Director 59 Non-Executive Director 56 General Counsel & Company Lesley joined the Board on 1 January 2012 Ian joined the Board on 1 October 2010.
Secretary 53 and is Chairman of the Remuneration In July 2009 he joined the Wolseley Grant has been General Counsel & Committee.
She is a non-executive director Group as chief executive.
He was Company Secretary of Centrica since of SABMiller Plc and is a trustee of the previously chief executive of Travelex the demerger from British Gas plc in Grosvenor Estates and chairman of Holdings Limited and for two years prior February 1997, having joined British Grosvenor Group Limited.
She was to that he was CEO of Alliance Unichem Gas in October1996.
previously with British Linen Bank in 1997, plc until their merger with Boots in 2006.
Jill Shedden becoming governor in 1999, and was He spent 12 years with Diageo including Group Director, Human subsequently a founder director of British four years as president European major Resources 47 Linen Advisers from 1999 to 2003.
She markets and global supply.
His early Jill was appointed Group Director, was previously senior non-executive career was with Procter and Gamble.
Human Resources on 1 July 2011. director of Hays Plc and also spent 11.
Paul Rayner Previously she was HR Director for 1 5 years with Kleinwort Benson from 1981 Non-Executive Director 58 Centrica Energy.
She joined British Gas to 1996, first in corporate finance and then Paul joined the Board on 22 September plc as a graduate in 1988 and has as chief executive of the institutional asset 2004 and is Chairman of the Audit since held a wide range of roles management business.
He will step down from the across the Group including HR Director 8.
Nick Luff Board on 31 December 2013 and as for British Gas Business and British Group Finance Director 45 Chairman of the Audit Committee on Gas Residential.
Nick joined Centrica as Group Finance 1 July 2013.
In 2008, he was appointed a Director on 1 March 2007.
He was non-executive director of Qantas Airways previously chief financial officer of The Limited and Boral Limited.
In May 2011 Committee membership Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation he was also appointed as a nonCompany P&O and has held a number of executive director of Treasury Wine Audit Noms Rem CR Exec Dis other senior financial roles at P&O, having Estates Limited in Australia and was Sir Roger Carr qualified as a chartered accountant at appointed chairman in September 2012.
Sam Laidlaw He was finance director of British KPMG.
Until December 2010 he was a Phil Bentley American Tobacco plc from 2002 until non-executive director of QinetiQ Groupplc.
Andrew Mackenzie Della Valle Holdings Limited in Australia, holding Non-Executive Director 56 senior executive appointments, and Mary Francis CBE Andrew joined the Board on 1 September became chief operating officer of British Mark Hanafin 2005.
Andrew has been appointed as CEO American Tobacco Australasia Limited of BHP Billiton with effect from 10 May Lesley Knox in September 1999.
2013 and he will resign as a Non-Executive Nick Luff Director of Centrica at that date.
Chris Weston Andrew not, therefore, seek re-election as Managing Director, North America 49 Mackenzie a Director at the Annual General Meeting Chris was appointed to the Board on Ian Meakins to be held on 13 May 2013.
1 July 2009 upon his appointment as Managing Director, North America.
He Paul Rayner was previously Managing Director, British Chris Weston Gas Services from June 2005.
Prior to Grant Dawson this, he was Managing Director, British Jill Shedden Gas Business from January 2002.
He joined Centrica in November 2001, Nominations, Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility, Executive, Disclosure following the acquisition of One Tel where Chairman he was the Managing Director of Europe.
Member Previously, he worked for Cable & Wireless and also spent seven years in BOARd Of dIRECTORS And SEnIOR ExECuTIvES PhOTOGRAPhS On the army with the Royal Artillery.
PAGES 6 And 7 48 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 Shareholder Information shareholder InforMatIon Managing your Shares write to Equiniti and give them the Please contact our Registrar, Equiniti, to shareholder reference numbers, they will Manage manage your shareholding.
Information is be able to combine your accounts into one.
More onlIne also available through the Shareholder We work with a specialist tracing agency, Centre on our website, including frequently ProSearch, to identify shareholders whose asked questions and forms available to details are not up to date and who have download to help you to: You can view and manage your outstanding cash entitlements.
Please notify Equiniti when you move house to shareholding online.
Go to the transfer your shares: ensure you continue to receive all our electronic communications change your registered name or communications.
section of the Shareholder address: Centre on our website at Centrica FlexiShare register a lost share certificate and FlexiShare is an easy way to hold Centrica centrica.
com shareholdercentre obtain a replacement: shares without a share certificate.
Your consolidate your share certificates: shares would be held in a nominee If you do not have a UK bank or building company, Equiniti Corporate Nominees society account, Equiniti are able to pay manage your dividend payments: Limited, however you are able to attend dividends in local currencies in over 30 buy, sell or transfer shares through and vote at general meetings as if the countries.
For a small fee, you could have Centrica FlexiShare: shares were held in your own name.
your dividends converted from sterling and Holding your shares in this way is free and paid into your designated bank account, notify the death of a shareholder: and comes with a number of benefits: usually within five days of the dividend register for electronic communications.
low cost share-dealing rates, full details being paid.
of which are available on the You can also manage your shareholding Buying and selling shares with a Shareholder Centre together with online by registering for Shareview via the share certificate dealing charges: electronic communications section of the If you wish to buy or sell Centrica shares Shareholder Centre.
quicker settlement periods for buying and hold a share certificate, you can do this: When contacting Equiniti or registering and selling shares: and by using the services of a stockbroker or online, you should have your shareholder the opportunity to join the Dividend high street bank: or reference number at hand.
This can be Reinvestment Plan.
found on your share certificate or dividend through telephone or online services.
Dividends In order to sell your shares in this way, you Dividends on Centrica shares are usually will need to present your share certificate If you hold less than 2,500 shares, you will paid in June and November.
Details of the at the time of sale.
be able to change your registered address dividends for the year ended 31 December or set up a dividend mandate instruction 2012 can be found in on page 42. over the phone.
For security, if you hold You are encouraged to have your dividends more than 2,500 shares, you will need to paid directly to your bank or building put this in writing.
This means that you will Please note, if you receive more than one receive the money on the day it is paid copy of documents that we send you, it is which avoids any risk of missing cheques.
likely that you have more than one account If you do choose to receive your dividends on the share register, perhaps with a in this way, a consolidated tax voucher will slightly different name or address.
If you be sent to you in March each year.
Contact details for our registrar ContaCt Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, United Kingdom eqUInItI Telephone: 0871 384 2985 and outside the UK 44 121 415 7061 Textphone: 0871 384 2255 and outside the UK 44 121 415 7028 Online: https: help.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, UK time.
Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012 49 Shareholder Information Financial Calendar 24 April 2013 Ex-dividend date 2012 final dividend 26 April 2013 Record date 2012 final dividend 13 May 2013 AGM, Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, London SW1 at 2pm 12 June 2013 Payment date 2012 final dividend 31 July 2013 2013 half year results 13 November 2013 Payment date 2013 interim dividend Provisional A wealth of other information is available on If you do receive such an approach, you Shareholder communication our website, including: are encouraged to take the following steps: Changes in legislation have meant it is now possible for us to communicate to a regular updates about our business: obtain the full name of the person and greater extent with shareholders using our organisation and make a record of any comprehensive share price information: website.
We strongly encourage our other information they give you, for shareholders to receive communications financial results: and example telephone number, address, electronically as it allows us to make web address: dividend payment dates and amounts.
considerable savings, both environmentally if the caller persists, simply hang up: and and financially, and allows you to: Share repurchase programme On 4 February 2013, the Company report the matter to the FSA so that they view the Annual Report and Annual announced it would launch a 500 million can investigate.
Review on the day they are published: share repurchase programme over the You are able to do this online at receive an email alert when shareholder next 12 months.
uk consumerinformation communications are available: available from the Shareholder Centre on scamsandswindles or by calling them on our website.
Beware of share fraudsters manage your shareholding quickly and You are advised to deal only with financial Shareholders are cautioned to be very securely.
services firms that are authorised by the wary of any unsolicited advice, offers FSA.
Check the firm is properly authorised In April 2012, together with Equiniti, we to buy shares at a discount, sell your by the FSA before getting involved by introduced an electronic queries service to shares at a premium or offers of free visiting fsa.
If you do enable our shareholders to manage their company reports.
deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not investment 24 7.
Since then Equiniti have: Centrica is aware that some of its be eligible to receive payment under the addressed 2,000 queries using the shareholders have recently received Financial Services Compensation Scheme electronic queries service: unsolicited phone calls or letters from if anything goes wrong.
individuals or companies offering to buy handled over 19,500 calls: and Details of any share-dealing services or sell Centrica shares on very favourable that Centrica endorses are available completed 150,000 transactions.
These communications imply a on our website and are included in connection with Centrica and are often Details of this service can be found at Company mailings.
from overseas based brokers who are shareview.
very persuasive and extremely persistent, with professional websites to support their activities.
The Financial Services Authority FSA report that such scams cost investors in excess of 200 million each year.
Disclaimer This Annual Review does not constitute an invitation to Accessibility underwrite, subscribe for, or otherwise acquire or dispose of any Centrica shares or other securities.
If you would like this Annual Review in an alternative format, This Annual Review contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results, such as large print, Braille or CD, you can request these in the following ways: operations and businesses of Centrica plc.
These statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate Telephone: 0800 111 4371 Textphone: 18001 0800 111 4371 to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause Please note that these numbers should be used to request copies of alternative actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and formats only.
For general shareholder enquiries, please use the Centrica shareholder forecasts.
Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult an independent Calls to this number cost 8 pence per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, financial adviser.
Designed and produced by Photography by David Hares, Mike Abrahams, Igor Emmerich, Charlie Fawell CentrICa plC and David Partner.
Registered office: Millstream, Maidenhead Road, Windsor, Printed by CPI Colour Limited Berkshire SL4 5GD ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral.
Company registered in England and Wales No.
