Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Additional Information | Glossary Glossary Market denitions United States of America Other Established Markets Emerging Markets US Western Europe Japan Emerging Europe China Other Emerging ROW Austria Albania Egypt Belgium Canada Belarus Emerging Asia Pacic Gulf States Denmark Bosnia and Herzegovina Bangladesh Israel Finland Other Established ROWBulgaria Cambodia Latin America France Australia Croatia Hong Kong Lebanon Germany New Zealand Czech Republic India Maghreb Greece Estonia Indonesia Saudi Arabia Iceland Georgia Laos South Africa Ireland Hungary Malaysia Italy Kazakhstan Philippines Luxembourg Latvia Singapore Netherlands Lithuania South Korea Norway Macedonia Sri Lanka Portugal Poland Taiwan Spain Romania Thailand Sweden Russia Vietnam Switzerland Serbia and Montenegro UK Slovakia Slovenia Turkey Ukraine Rest of World means Other Established Markets and Emerging Markets.
Established Markets means the US and Other Established Markets.
Established ROW means Canada, Japan and Other Established ROW.
Latin America includes Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru and Venezuela.
Gulf States includes Bahrain, Dubai, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and UAE.
Maghreb means Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia.
IMS Health, IMS Midas Quantum Q3 2012 data is not available or AstraZeneca does not subscribe for IMS Health quarterly data for these countries.
The above table is not an exhaustive list of all the countries in which AstraZeneca operates.
US equivalents Terms used in this Annual Report US equivalent or brief description Accruals Accrued expenses Allotted Issued Called-up share capital Issued share capital Creditors Liabilities payables Debtors Receivables and prepaid expenses Earnings Net income Employee share schemes Employee stock benefit plans Fixed asset investments Non-current investments Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity Interest payable Interest expense Loans Long-term debt Prepayments Prepaid expenses profit Income profit and loss account Income statement consolidated statement of comprehensive income Share premium account Premiums paid in excess of par value of Ordinary Shares Short-term investments Redeemable securities and short-term deposits AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 209 Additional Information | Glossary Glossary The following abbreviations and expressions have the GIA AstraZenecas group internal audit function.
Phase III the phase of clinical research which following meanings when used in this Annual Report: gross margin the margin, as a percentage, by which is performed to gather additional information sales exceed the cost of sales, calculated by dividing about effectiveness and safety of the drug, often Abbott Abbott Laboratories, Inc. with respect the difference between the two by the sales gure.
in a comparative setting, to evaluate the overall to Crestor and Synagis.
Group AstraZeneca PLC and its subsidiaries.
benefit risk prole of the drug.
Phase III studies Affordable Care Act the Patient Protection and GSK GlaxoSmithKline plc.
usually include between several hundred Affordable Care Act which was signed into law on HR human resources.
23 March 2010 as amended by the Health Care and IAS International Accounting Standards.
pounds sterling, GBP, pence or p references Education Reconciliation Act which was signed into IAS 19 IAS 19 Employee Benets.
IAS 32 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
Pozen POZEN INC. ADR an American Depositary Receipt evidencing IAS 39 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition primary care general healthcare provided by title to an ADS.
physicians who generally have first contact with ADS an American Depositary Share representing IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
patients and who may have continuing care for them.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards Proof of Concept data demonstrating that AGM an Annual General Meeting of the Company.
or International Financial Reporting Standard, a candidate drug results in a clinical change on Amgen Amgen, Inc. as the context requires.
an acceptable endpoint or surrogate in patients Amylin Amylin Pharmaceuticals, LLC IFRS 8 IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
formerly Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. IP intellectual property.
PSP AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan.
ANDA an abbreviated new drug application, which Ironwood Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc. R&D research and development.
is a marketing approval application for a generic drug IS information services.
Redeemable Preference Share a redeemable submitted to the FDA.
preference share of 1 each in the share capital Annual Report this Annual Report and Form 20-F KPI key performance indicator.
Information 2012. krona or SEK references to the currency of Sweden.
Regulatory Data Protection see the Intellectual API active pharmaceutical ingredient.
Lean means enhancing value for customers with Property section from page 35.
Ardea Ardea Biosciences, Inc. fewer resources.
Regulatory Exclusivity any of the IP rights Ardelyx Ardelyx, Inc. MAA a marketing authorisation application, which arising from generation of clinical data and includes Articles the Articles of Association of the Company.
is an application for authorisation to place medical Regulatory Data Protection, Paediatric Exclusivity Astra Astra AB, being the company with whom the products on the market.
This is a specic term used and Orphan Drug status.
Company merged in 1999. in the EU and European Economic Area markets.
Responsible Business Plan the plan described Astra Tech Astra Tech AB.
MAb monoclonal antibody, a biologic that is specic, in the Responsible Business section from page 48, AstraZeneca the Company and its subsidiaries.
that is, it binds to and attacks one particular antigen.
further details of which can be found at our website, AZIP AstraZeneca Investment Plan.
MedImmune MedImmune, LLC formerly astrazeneca.
com responsible  s a class of drugs based on large protein MedImmune, Inc.. measurement .
molecules that have a therapeutic effect.
Merck Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp. formerly Merck RSV respiratory syncytial virus.
biosimilar s a copy of a biologic that is sufciently & Co. Inc.. Sarbanes-Oxley Act the US Sarbanes-Oxley similar to meet regulatory requirements, which can NDA a new drug application to the FDA for approval Act of 2002. compete with patented biologics once they have to market a new medicine in the US.
SEC the US Securities and Exchange Commission, come off patent.
the governmental agency that regulates the US BMS Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
Novartis Novartis Pharma A. G. securities industry stock market.
Board the Board of Directors of the Company.
Novexel Novexel S. A. Seroquel franchise Seroquel IR and Seroquel XR.
Bureau Veritas Bureau Veritas UK Limited.
CEO the Chief Executive officer of the Company.
NYSE the New York Stock Exchange.
SHE Safety, Health and Environment.
SFDA State Food and Drug Administration of China.
CFO the Chief Financial officer of the Company.
operating profit sales, less cost of sales, less SG&A costs selling, general and administrative costs.
CHMP the Committee for Medicinal Products for operating costs, plus operating income.
Six Sigma a rigorous and disciplined methodology Human Use, being a committee of the EMA.
Ordinary Share an ordinary share of $0.25 each that uses data and statistical analysis to measure and CIS Commonwealth of Independent States.
in the share capital of the Company.
improve a companys operational performance Code of Conduct the Groups Code of Conduct.
Orphan Drug a drug which has been approved for by identifying and eliminating defects.
Company or Parent Company AstraZeneca PLC use in a relatively low-incidence indication an orphan SOP AstraZeneca Share Option Plan.
formerly Zeneca Group PLC Zeneca.
indication and has been rewarded with a period of specialty care specic healthcare provided Complete Response Letter CRL a letter issued by market exclusivity: the period of exclusivity and the by medical specialists who do not generally have the FDA communicating its decision to a drug company available orphan indications vary between markets.
that its NDA or biological licensing application is not OTC over-the-counter.
Targacept Targacept, Inc. approvable as submitted.
The submitting drug company Paediatric Exclusivity in the US, a six month period Teva Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. is required to respond to the Complete Response Letter of exclusivity to market a drug which is awarded by the TKI tyrosine kinase inhibitor.
if it wishes to pursue an approval for its submission.
FDA in return for certain paediatric clinical studies using TSR total shareholder return, being the total return Corporate Integrity Agreement CIA the agreement that drug.
This six month period runs from the date on a share over a period of time, including dividends described in the US Corporate Integrity Agreement of relevant patent expiry.
reporting section on page 39. available in certain other territories eg European SPC UK United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Dainippon Sumitomo Dainippon Sumitomo paediatric extensions.
Patent Term Extension PTE an extension of UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Corporate Director a director of the Company.
up to five years in the term of a US patent relating Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting earnings per share EPS profit for the year after tax to a drug which compensates for delays in marketing Council in May 2010 that sets out standards of good and minority interests, divided by the weighted average resulting from the need to obtain FDA approval.
practice in corporate governance for the UK.
number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
The analogous right in the EU is a supplementary US United States of America.
EFPIA European Federation of Pharmaceutical protection certicate SPC.
US dollar, US$, USD or $ references to the currency Industries and Associations.
EMA the European Medicines Agency.
Phase I the phase of clinical research where a WHO the World Health Organization, the EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa.
new drug or treatment is tested in small groups of United Nations specialised agency for health.
people 20 to 80 to check that the drug can achieve FDA the US Food and Drug Administration, which appropriate concentrations in the body, determine is part of the US Department of Health and Human a safe dosage range and identify side effects.
Services Agency, which is the regulatory authority for This phase includes healthy volunteer studies.
all pharmaceuticals including biologics and vaccines Phase II the phase of clinical research which includes and medical devices in the US.
the controlled clinical activities conducted to evaluate Forest Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited.
the effectiveness of the drug in patients with the disease GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
under study and to begin to determine the safety prole GERD gastro oesophageal reux disease.
Phase II studies are typically conducted in GI gastrointestinal.
a relatively small number of patients and can be divided into Phase IIa studies, which tend to be designed to assess dosing requirements, and Phase IIb studies, which tend to assess safety and efcacy.
210 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Additional Information | Trade marks Trade marks AstraZeneca, the AstraZeneca logotype and the AstraZeneca symbol are all trade marks of the AstraZeneca group of companies.
The following brand names which appear in italics in this Annual Report are trade marks of the Group: Trade mark Comments Accolate Arimidex Atacand Atacand Plus in rest of world not in the US or the EU Axanum Not in the US Brilinta In the US and rest of world not in the EU Brilique In the EU Caprelsa Casodex Crestor Diprivan EMLA Not in the US or the EU Entocort Faslodex FluMist In the US and the rest of world.
Iressa Merrem Meronem in the EU and rest of world not in the US Naropin Not in the US or the EU Nexium Nolvadex Oxis Turbuhaler Not in the US or the EU Plendil Losec Prilosec In the EU and rest of world not in the US.
Prilosec in the US Pulmicort Pulmicort Respules Pulmicort Turbuhaler Rhinocort Seloken Zoc Not in the US.
Seloken, Seloken XL, Seloken Zoc or Seloken Zok in rest of world not in the US or the EU Seroquel Seroquel IR Seroquel XR Symbicort Symbicort SMART Not in the US Symbicort Turbuhaler Not in the US or the EU Synagis In the US.
Abbott owns the trade mark for Synagis in rest of world not in the US or the EU Tenormin Toprol-XL In the US.
Seloken Betaloc Zok in rest of world not in the US or the EU Vimovo Xylocaine Not in the US or the EU Zestril Zoladex Zomig Not in the US The following brand names which appear in italics in this Annual Report are trade marks licensed to the Group by the entities set out below: Trade mark Owner Comments Bydureon Amylin North & South Americas: AstraZeneca Ownership dependent upon geography rest of world not in the US or the EU Byetta Amylin North & South Americas: AstraZeneca Ownership dependent upon geography rest of world not in the US or the EU Cubicin Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Forxiga BMS Kombiglyze XR BMS Kombiglyze BMS Komboglyze BMS Linzess Ironwood Brand name for linaclotide in the US Onglyza BMS Ranmark Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited Symlin Amylin North & South Americas: AstraZeneca Ownership dependent upon geography Pharmaceuticals LP rest of world not in the US or the EU Tearo Forest Brand name for ceftaroline in the US ZinforoForest Ownership of Zinforo trade mark was assigned from AstraZeneca to Forest in April 2012 The following brand names which appear in italics throughout this Annual Report are not owned by or licensed to the Group and are owned by the entities set out below: Trade mark Owner Lipitor Pzer Ireland Pharmaceuticals Plavix Sano AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 211
