Remuneration of directors $ million 2012 2011 2010 Total for all directors Emoluments 12 10 15 Gains made on the exercise of share options 2 Amounts awarded under incentive schemes 3 1 4 Emoluments These amounts comprise fees paid to the non-executive chairman and the non-executive directors and, for executive directors, salary and benefits earned during the relevant financial year, plus cash bonuses awarded for the year.
There was no compensation for loss of office in 2012 2011 nil and 2010 $3 million.
Pension contributions During 2012 two executive directors participated in a non-contributory pension scheme established for UK employees by a separate trust fund to which contributions are made by BP based on actuarial advice.
Two US executive directors participated in the US BP Retirement Accumulation Plan during 2012.
Office facilities for former chairmen and deputy chairmen It is customary for the company to make available to former chairmen and deputy chairmen, who were previously employed executives, the use of office and basic secretarial facilities following their retirement.
The cost involved in doing so is not significant.
Further information Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the directors remuneration report on pages 22-24.
Definitions Replacement cost RC profit or loss reflects the replacement cost of supplies and is arrived at by excluding inventory holding gains and losses from profit or loss.
RC profit or loss is the measure of profit or loss for each operating segment that is required to be disclosed under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
RC profit or loss for the group is not a recognized GAAP measure.
The nearest equivalent GAAP measure is profit or loss for the year attributable to BP shareholders.
Underlying replacement cost profit loss is RC profit or loss after adjusting for non-operating items and fair value accounting effects.
Underlying RC profit or loss and fair value accounting effects are not recognized GAAP measures.
BP believes that underlying RC profit or loss before interest and taxation is a useful measure for investors because it is a measure closely tracked by management to evaluate BPs operating performance and to make financial, strategic and operating decisions and because it may help investors to understand and evaluate, in the same manner as management, the underlying trends in BPs operational performance on a comparable basis, year on year, by adjusting for the effects of these non-operating items and fair value accounting effects.
The nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis for the group is profit or loss for the year attributable to BP shareholders.
The nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis for segments is RC profit or loss before interest and taxation.
Inventory holding gains and losses represent the difference between the cost of sales calculated using the average cost to BP of supplies acquired during the year and the cost of sales calculated on the first-in first-out method, including any changes in provisions where the net realizable value of the inventory is lower than its cost.
Non-operating items are charges and credits arising in consolidated entities that BP discloses separately because it considers such disclosures to be meaningful and relevant to investors.
The main categories of non-operating items included here are: impairments: gains or losses on sale of fixed assets and the sale of businesses: environmental remediation costs: restructuring, integration and rationalization costs: and changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives.
They are items that management considers not to be part of underlying business operations and are disclosed in order to enable investors better to understand and evaluate the groups reported financial performance.
Fair value accounting effects are non-GAAP adjustments to our IFRS profit relating to certain physical inventories, pipelines and storage capacity.
Management uses a fair-value basis to value these items which, under IFRS, are accounted for on an accruals basis with the exception of trading inventories, which are valued using spot prices.
The adjustments have the effect of aligning the valuation basis of the physical positions with that of the derivative instruments, which are required to be fair valued under IFRS, in order to provide a more representative view of the ultimate economic value.
Proved reserves replacement ratio is the extent to which production is replaced by proved reserves additions.
This ratio is expressed in oil equivalent terms and includes changes resulting from revisions to previous estimates, improved recovery and extensions and discoveries, and may be expressed as a replacement ratio excluding acquisitions and divestments or as a total replacement ratio including acquisitions and divestments.
For more information see Certain definitions in BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012.
