On 22 October 2012, BP announced that it had signed heads of terms for  a proposed transaction to sell its 50% share in TNK-BP to Rosneft.
Following this agreement, BPs investment in TNK-BP met the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
See Note 4 for further information.
Significant accounting policies During 2010 a separate organization was created within the group to deal  with the ongoing response to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
This organization  reports directly to the group chief executive officer and its costs are The consolidated financial statements of the BP group for the year ended excluded from the results of the operating segments.
Under IFRS its 31 December 2012 were approved and signed by the group chief costs are therefore presented as a reconciling item between the sum of executive on 6 March 2013 having been duly authorized to do so by the the results of the reportable segments and the group results.
BP p. l. c. is a public limited company incorporated and The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the domiciled in England and Wales.
The consolidated financial statements groups accounting policies described in this note, except that IFRS have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting requires that the measure of profit or loss disclosed for each operating Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards segment is the measure that is provided regularly to the chief operating Board IASB, IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and in decision maker.
For BP, this measure of profit or loss is replacement cost accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006.
IFRS as profit before interest and tax which reflects the replacement cost of adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the supplies by excluding from profit inventory holding gains and losses.
IASB, however, the differences have no impact on the groups Replacement cost profit for the group is not a recognized measure under consolidated financial statements for the years presented.
The significant generally accepted accounting practice GAAP.
For further information accounting policies of the group are set out below.
Basisofpreparation  The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties with IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations venturers undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
issued and effective for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The standards Joint control exists only when the strategic financial and operating and interpretations adopted in the year are described further on page 192. decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the The accounting policies that follow have been consistently applied to all venturers.
A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture that involves the years presented.
establishment of a company, partnership or other entity to engage in Subsequent to releasing our unaudited fourth quarter and full year 2012 economic activity that the group jointly controls with its fellow venturers.
results announcement dated 5 February 2013, an adjustment of $0.8 The results, assets and liabilities of a jointly controlled entity are billion has been made to provisions relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of as at 31 December 2012, with a corresponding adjustment to the accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in a jointly reimbursement asset.
There was no impact on profit or loss for the year.
controlled entity is carried in the balance sheet at cost, plus postFor further information see Note 36.
In addition, an adjustment has been acquisition changes in the groups share of net assets of the jointly made to correct a $4.7 billion understatement of revenue and purchases controlled entity, less distributions received and less any impairment in for the year ended 31 December 2012.
There was no impact on profit or value of the investment.
Loans advanced to jointly controlled entities that loss for the year.
have the characteristics of equity financing are also included in the investment on the group balance sheet.
The group income statement The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars $ million, except where reflects the groups share of the results after tax of the jointly controlled entity.
For further information regarding the key judgements and estimates made Financial statements of jointly controlled entities are prepared for the same reporting year as the group.
Where necessary, adjustments are by management in applying the groups accounting policies, refer to Critical accounting policies on pages 171-174, which forms part of these made to those financial statements to bring the accounting policies used into line with those of the group.
Unrealized gains on transactions between the group and its jointly Basisofconsolidation controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the jointly controlled entities.
Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless BP p. l. c. and the entities it controls its subsidiaries drawn up to the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset 31 December each year.
Control comprises the power to govern the transferred.
financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct and indirect ownership of voting The group assesses investments in jointly controlled entities for rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that of contractual agreement.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of their acquisition, being the date on which the group obtains control, and impairment exists, the carrying amount of the investment is compared continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
The with its recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value less costs to financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year sell and value in use.
Where the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
Intercompany amount, the investment is written down to its recoverable amount.
balances and transactions, including unrealized profits arising from The group ceases to use the equity method of accounting on the date intragroup transactions, have been eliminated.
Unrealized losses are from which it no longer has joint control or significant influence over the eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the joint venture or associate respectively, or when the interest becomes asset transferred.
Minority interests represent the equity in subsidiaries that classified as an asset held for sale.
is not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the group.
Certain of the groups activities, particularly in the Upstream segment, are Segmentalreporting conducted through joint ventures where the venturers have a direct The groups operating segments are established on the basis of those ownership interest in, and jointly control, the assets of the venture.
BP components of the group that are evaluated regularly by the chief recognizes, on a line-by-line basis in the consolidated financial statements, operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in its share of the assets, liabilities and expenses of these jointly controlled assessing performance.
With effect from 1 January 2012, the former assets incurred jointly with the other partners, along with the groups Exploration and Production segment was separated to form two new income from the sale of its share of the output and any liabilities and operating segments, Upstream and TNK-BP, reflecting the way in which expenses that the group has incurred in relation to the venture.
our investment in TNK-BP is managed.
In addition, we began reporting the Refining and Marketing segment as Downstream.
186 Financial statements BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Financial statements that the carrying value may be impaired.
Significant accounting policies continued assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which  the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cashAn associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is significant influence through participation in the financial and operating recognized.
An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in policy decisions of the investee, but which is not a subsidiary or a jointly a subsequent period.
The results, assets and liabilities of an associate are Goodwill arising on business combinations prior to 1 January 2003 is incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of stated at the previous carrying amount, less subsequent impairments, accounting as described above for jointly controlled entities.
under UK generally accepted accounting practice.
 Goodwill may also arise upon investments in jointly controlled entities and The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic associates, being the surplus of the cost of investment over the groups environment in which an entity operates and is normally the currency in share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities.
Such which the entity primarily generates and expends cash.
goodwill is recorded within investments in jointly controlled entities and In individual subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, associates, and any impairment of the investment is included within the transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional groups share of earnings from jointly controlled entities and associates.
currency by applying the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign  currencies are retranslated into the functional currency at the rate of Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any resulting exchange measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
differences are included in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities, other than those measured at fair value, are not retranslated Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if subsequent to initial recognition.
their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when In the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of non-US the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for dollar functional currency subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual associates, including related goodwill, are translated into US dollars at the and customary for sales of such assets.
Management must be committed rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results and cash to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a flows of non-US dollar functional currency subsidiaries, jointly controlled completed sale within one year from the date of classification as held for entities and associates are translated into US dollars using average rates of sale.
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are not depreciated the profits for the year retained by non-US dollar functional currency once classified as held for sale.
The group ceases to use the equity subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates are translated into US method of accounting from the date on which an interest in a jointly dollars are taken to a separate component of equity and reported in the controlled entity or an interest in an associate becomes held for sale.
If a statement of comprehensive income.
Exchange gains and losses arising on non-current asset or disposal group has been classified as held for sale, long-term intragroup foreign currency borrowings used to finance the but subsequently ceases to meet the criteria to be classified as held for groups non-US dollar investments are also taken to other comprehensive sale, the group ceases to classify the asset or disposal group as held for income.
On disposal or partial disposal of a non-US dollar functional currency sale.
Non-current assets and disposal groups that cease to be classified as subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate, the deferred cumulative held for sale are measured at the lower of the carrying amount before the amount of exchange gains and losses recognized in equity relating to that asset or disposal group was classified as held for sale adjusted for any particular non-US dollar operation is reclassified to the income statement.
depreciation, amortization or revaluation that would have been recognized had the asset or disposal group not been classified as held for sale and its  recoverable amount at the date of the subsequent decision not to sell.
A business combination is a transaction or other event in which an Except for any interests in equity-accounted entities that cease to be acquirer obtains control of one or more businesses.
A business is an classified as held for sale, any adjustment to the carrying amount is integrated set of activities and assets that is capable of being conducted recognized in profit or loss in the period in which the asset ceases to be and managed for the purpose of providing a return in the form of classified as held for sale.
When an interest in an equity-accounted entity dividends or lower costs or other economic benefits directly to investors ceases to be classified as held for sale, it is accounted for using the equity or other owners or participants.
A business consists of inputs and method as from the date of its classification as held for sale and the processes applied to those inputs that have the ability to create outputs.
financial statements for the periods since classification as held for sale are Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are measured at Intangibleassets their fair values at the acquisition date.
The cost of an acquisition is Intangible assets, other than goodwill, include expenditure on the measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at exploration for and evaluation of oil and natural gas resources, computer acquisition-date fair value, and the amount of any minority interest in the software, patents, licences and trademarks and are stated at the amount acquiree.
Minority interests are stated either at fair value or at the initially recognized, less accumulated amortization and accumulated proportionate share of the recognized amounts of the acquirees impairment losses.
For information on accounting for expenditures on the identifiable net assets.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and exploration for and evaluation of oil and gas resources, see the accounting included in distribution and administration expenses.
policy for oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development expenditure below.
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount recognized for any minority interest Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried initially at and the acquisition-date fair values of any previously held interest in the cost.
The initial cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and other consideration given to acquire the asset.
An intangible asset liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
acquired as part of a business combination is measured at fair value at the date of acquisition and is recognized separately from goodwill if the asset At the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights.
cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating units, expected to Intangible assets with a finite life are amortized on a straight-line basis benefit from the combinations synergies.
over their expected useful lives.
For patents, licences and trademarks, Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any expected useful life is the shorter of the duration of the legal agreement accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment and economic useful life, and can range from three to 15 years.
Computer annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate software costs generally have a useful life of three to five years.
Financial statements 187 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 the asset received is more clearly evident.
Where fair value is not used, 1.
Significant accounting policies continued the cost of the acquired asset is measured at the carrying amount of the The expected useful lives of assets are reviewed on an annual basis and, asset given up.
The gain or loss on derecognition of the asset given up is if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
recognized in profit or loss.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment Expenditure on major maintenance refits or repairs comprises the cost of whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value replacement assets or parts of assets, inspection costs and overhaul may not be recoverable.
Where an asset or part of an asset that was separately depreciated is replaced and it is probable that future economic benefits associated ,  Oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development expenditure is with the item will flow to the group, the expenditure is capitalized and the carrying amount of the replaced asset is derecognized.
Inspection costs accounted for using the principles of the successful efforts method of accounting.
associated with major maintenance programmes are capitalized and amortized over the period to the next inspection.
Overhaul costs for major Licence and property acquisition costs maintenance programmes, and all other maintenance costs are expensed Exploration licence and leasehold property acquisition costs are capitalized as incurred.
within intangible assets and are reviewed at each reporting date to Oil and natural gas properties, including related pipelines, are depreciated confirm that there is no indication that the carrying amount exceeds the using a unit-of-production method.
The cost of producing wells is recoverable amount.
This review includes confirming that exploration amortized over proved developed reserves.
Licence acquisition, common drilling is still under way or firmly planned or that it has been determined, facilities and future decommissioning costs are amortized over total or work is under way to determine, that the discovery is economically proved reserves.
The unit-of-production rate for the amortization of viable based on a range of technical and commercial considerations and common facilities costs takes into account expenditures incurred to date, sufficient progress is being made on establishing development plans and together with the future capital expenditure expected to be incurred in timing.
If no future activity is planned, the remaining balance of the licence relation to these common facilities.
and property acquisition costs is written off.
Lower value licences are pooled and amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated period of Other property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight line basis exploration.
Upon recognition of proved reserves and internal approval for over its expected useful life.
The typical useful lives of the groups other development, the relevant expenditure is transferred to property, plant property, plant and equipment are as follows: and equipment.
Land improvements 15 to 25 years Exploration and appraisal expenditure Buildings 20 to 50 years Geological and geophysical exploration costs are charged against income Refineries 20 to 30 years as incurred.
Costs directly associated with an exploration well are initially Petrochemicals plants 20 to 30 years capitalized as an intangible asset until the drilling of the well is complete and the results have been evaluated.
These costs include employee Pipelines 10 to 50 years remuneration, materials and fuel used, rig costs and payments made to Service stations 15 years contractors.
If potentially commercial quantities of hydrocarbons are not Office equipment 3 to 7 years found, the exploration well is written off as a dry hole.
If hydrocarbons are Fixtures and fittings 5 to 15 years found and, subject to further appraisal activity, are likely to be capable of The expected useful lives of property, plant and equipment are reviewed commercial development, the costs continue to be carried as an asset.
on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are Costs directly associated with appraisal activity, undertaken to determine accounted for prospectively.
the size, characteristics and commercial potential of a reservoir following The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for the initial discovery of hydrocarbons, including the costs of appraisal wells impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the where hydrocarbons were not found, are initially capitalized as an carrying value may not be recoverable.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon disposal All such carried costs are subject to technical, commercial and or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the management review at least once a year to confirm the continued intent continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of to develop or otherwise extract value from the discovery.
When this is no the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds longer the case, the costs are written off.
When proved reserves of oil and and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement natural gas are determined and development is approved by management, in the period in which the item is derecognized.
the relevant expenditure is transferred to property, plant and equipment.
, plantandequipment Development expenditure The group assesses assets or groups of assets for impairment whenever Expenditure on the construction, installation and completion of events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of infrastructure facilities such as platforms, pipelines and the drilling of an asset may not be recoverable, for example, changes in the groups development wells, including service and unsuccessful development or business plans, changes in commodity prices leading to sustained delineation wells, is capitalized within property, plant and equipment and unprofitable performance, low plant utilization, evidence of physical is depreciated from the commencement of production as described below damage or, for oil and gas assets, significant downward revisions of in the accounting policy for property, plant and equipment.
estimated volumes or increases in estimated future development Property, plantandequipment expenditure.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the group makes Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Individual assets are depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The initial cost of an grouped for impairment assessment purposes at the lowest level at which asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost, any costs directly there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash attributable to bringing the asset into the location and condition necessary flows of other groups of assets.
An asset groups recoverable amount is for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management, the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Where the the initial estimate of any decommissioning obligation, if any, and, for carrying amount of an asset group exceeds its recoverable amount, the qualifying assets, borrowing costs.
The purchase price or construction asset group is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are consideration given to acquire the asset.
The capitalized value of a finance adjusted for the risks specific to the asset group and are discounted to lease is also included within property, plant and equipment.
Exchanges of their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current assets are measured at fair value unless the exchange transaction lacks market assessments of the time value of money.
commercial substance or the fair value of neither the asset received nor An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any the asset given up is reliably measurable.
The cost of the acquired asset is indication that previously recognized impairment losses may no longer measured at the fair value of the asset given up, unless the fair value of exist or may have decreased.
If such an indication exists, the recoverable 188 Financial statements BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Financial statements Available-for-sale financial assets 1.
Significant accounting policies continued If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, the cumulative loss amount is estimated.
A previously recognized impairment loss is reversed previously recognized in equity is transferred to the income statement.
only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the Any subsequent recovery in the fair value of the asset is recognized within assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was other comprehensive income.
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an unquoted increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot equity instrument that is carried at cost has been incurred, the amount of exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted prior years.
Such reversal is recognized in profit or loss.
After such a at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a Inventories systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Inventories, other than inventory held for trading purposes, are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
Cost is determined by the firstFinancialassets in first-out method and comprises direct purchase costs, cost of Financial assets are classified as loans and receivables: available-for-sale production, transportation and manufacturing expenses.
Net realizable financial assets: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: or as value is determined by reference to prices existing at the balance sheet derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as date.
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, other receivables, loans, other investments, and derivative Inventories held for trading purposes are stated at fair value less costs to financial instruments.
The group determines the classification of its sell and any changes in fair value are recognized in the income statement.
financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets are recognized Supplies are valued at cost to the group mainly using the average method initially at fair value, normally being the transaction price plus, in the case or net realizable value, whichever is the lower.
of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
Financialliabilities Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their profit or loss: derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an classification, as follows: effective hedge: or as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost, as Loans and receivables appropriate.
Financial liabilities include trade and other payables, accruals, Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or most items of finance debt and derivative financial instruments.
The group determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
assets are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method if The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognized in follows: income when the loans and receivables are derecognized or impaired, as Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss well as through the amortization process.
This category of financial assets Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are carried on the includes trade and other receivables.
balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognized in the income Available-for-sale financial assets statement.
Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets instruments, are classified as held for trading and are included in this that are not classified as loans and receivables or financial assets at fair category.
value through profit or loss.
After initial recognition, available-for-sale Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge financial assets are measured at fair value, with gains or losses recognized Such derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value.
The within other comprehensive income.
Accumulated changes in fair value treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluation is described below are recorded as a separate component of equity until the investment is in the accounting policy for derivative financial instruments and hedging derecognized or impaired.
The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference to bid Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Where there is All other financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value.
For interestno active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
bearing loans and borrowings this is the fair value of the proceeds Where fair value cannot be reliably measured, assets are carried at cost.
received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss After initial recognition, other financial liabilities are subsequently Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried on the measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method.
balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognized in the income Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and statement.
Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses arising on the instruments, are classified as held for trading and are included in this repurchase, settlement or cancellation of liabilities are recognized category.
respectively in interest and other income and finance costs.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge This category of financial liabilities includes trade and other payables and Such derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value.
treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluation is described below in the accounting policy for derivative financial instruments and hedging Leases activities.
Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalized at the  commencement of the lease term at the fair value of the leased item or, if The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance or group of financial assets is impaired.
charges are allocated to each period so as to achieve a constant rate of Loans and receivables interest on the remaining balance of the liability and are charged directly If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and against income.
receivables carried at amortized cost has been incurred, the amount of the Capitalized leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Operating lease and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the payments are recognized as an expense in the income statement on a financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the straight-line basis over the lease term.
For both finance and operating asset is reduced, with the amount of the loss recognized in the income leases, contingent rents are recognized in the income statement in the statement.
period in which they are incurred.
Financial statements 189 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 investment in an associate, the amounts recognized in other 1.
Significant accounting policies continued comprehensive income remain in the separate component of equity until  the investment is sold or impaired.
The group uses derivative financial instruments to manage certain If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is rates and commodity prices as well as for trading purposes.
Such revoked, amounts previously recognized within other comprehensive derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value on the income remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently transferred to the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of a remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives relating to unquoted equity non-financial asset or liability as above.
If a forecast transaction is no instruments are carried at cost where it is not possible to reliably measure longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognized in equity are their fair value subsequent to initial recognition.
Derivatives are carried as reclassified to the income statement.
assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host Contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and or another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments as characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract.
if the contracts were financial instruments, with the exception of contracts Contracts are assessed for embedded derivatives when the group that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the becomes a party to them, including at the date of a business combination.
receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the groups Embedded derivatives are measured at fair value at each balance sheet expected purchase, sale or usage requirements, are accounted for as date.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken financial instruments.
Contracts to buy or sell equity investments, directly to the income statement.
including investments in associates, are also financial instruments.
Provisions,  Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that Provisions are recognized when the group has a present obligation legal are not designated as effective hedging instruments are recognized in the or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of income statement.
resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the Fair value hedges when hedging exposure to changes in the fair value obligation.
Where appropriate, the future cash flow estimates are adjusted of a recognized asset or liability.
to reflect risks specific to the liability.
Cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognized determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
risk-free rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value Hedge relationships are formally designated and documented at inception, of money.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to together with the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the passage of time is recognized within finance costs.
Provisions are split the hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging between amounts expected to be settled within 12 months of the balance instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being sheet date current and amounts expected to be settled later nonhedged, and how the entity will assess the hedging instrument current.
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items will only be confirmed by future events not wholly within the control of fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged item.
Such hedges are the group, or present obligations where it is not probable that an outflow expected at inception to be highly effective in achieving offsetting of resources will be required or the amount of the obligation cannot be changes in fair value or cash flows.
Hedges meeting the criteria for hedge measured with sufficient reliability.
accounting are accounted for as follows: Contingent liabilities are not recognized in the financial statements but are Fair value hedges disclosed unless the possibility of an outflow of economic resources is The change in fair value of a hedging derivative is recognized in profit or considered remote.
The change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the Where the group makes contributions into a separately administered fund risk being hedged is recorded as part of the carrying value of the hedged for restoration, environmental or other obligations, which it does not item and is also recognized in profit or loss.
control, and the groups right to the assets in the fund is restricted, the The group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging fixed interest obligation to contribute to the fund is recognized as a liability where it is rate risk on borrowings.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of probable that such additional contributions will be made.
The group the interest rate swap is recognized in the income statement within recognizes a reimbursement asset separately, being the lower of the finance costs, offsetting the amortization of the interest on the underlying amount of the associated restoration, environmental or other provision borrowings.
and the groups share of the fair value of the net assets of the fund available to contributors.
If the criteria for hedge accounting are no longer met, or if the group revokes the designation, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a Decommissioning hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortized Liabilities for decommissioning costs are recognized when the group has to profit or loss over the period to maturity.
an obligation to plug and abandon a well, dismantle and remove a facility or an item of plant and to restore the site on which it is located, and when Cash flow hedges a reliable estimate of that liability can be made.
Where an obligation exists For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the for a new facility or item of plant, such as oil and natural gas production or hedging instrument is recognized within other comprehensive income, transportation facilities, this liability will be recognized on construction or while the ineffective portion is recognized in profit or loss.
Similarly, where an obligation exists for a well, this liability is to other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement recognized when it is drilled.
An obligation for decommissioning may also when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss.
The gain or loss crystallize during the period of operation of a well, facility or item of plant relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable through a change in legislation or through a decision to terminate rate borrowings is recognized in the income statement within finance operations.
The amount recognized is the present value of the estimated costs.
future expenditure determined in accordance with local conditions and Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, such requirements.
as a forecast transaction for the purchase of property, plant and A corresponding intangible asset in the case of an exploration or appraisal equipment, the amounts recognized within other comprehensive income well or item of property, plant and equipment of an amount equivalent to are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or the provision is also recognized.
The item of property, plant and liability.
Where the hedged item is an equity investment, such as an equipment is subsequently depreciated as part of the asset.
190 Financial statements BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Financial statements When an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested 1.
Significant accounting policies continued on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet recognized in the income Other than the unwinding of discount on the provision, any change in the statement for the award is expensed immediately.
present value of the estimated expenditure is reflected as an adjustment Cash-settled transactions to the provision and the corresponding asset.
Such changes include The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value at each foreign exchange gains and losses arising on the retranslation of the balance sheet date and recognized as an expense over the vesting period, liability into the functional currency of the reporting entity, when it is with a corresponding liability for the cumulative expense recognized on known that the liability will be settled in a foreign currency.
Environmental expenditures and liabilities  Environmental expenditures that relate to current or future revenues are The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is expensed or capitalized as appropriate.
Expenditures that relate to an determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit existing condition caused by past operations that do not contribute to method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to current or future earnings are expensed.
determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to Liabilities for environmental costs are recognized when a clean-up is determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation.
Past probable and the associated costs can be reliably estimated.
Generally, service costs are recognized immediately when the company becomes the timing of recognition of these provisions coincides with the committed to a change in pension plan design.
When a settlement commitment to a formal plan of action or, if earlier, on divestment or on eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued or a curtailment closure of inactive sites.
reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the plan The amount recognized is the best estimate of the expenditure required.
membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the obligation Where the liability will not be settled for a number of years, the amount and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial recognized is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
assumptions and the resultant gain or loss is recognized in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment Employeebenefits occurs.
Wages, salaries, bonuses, social security contributions, paid annual leave and sick leave are accrued in the period in which the associated services The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents the change in are rendered by employees of the group.
Deferred bonus arrangements present value of plan obligations resulting from the passage of time, and is that have a vesting date more than 12 months after the period end are determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of valued on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and the benefit obligation, taking into account material changes in the amortized on a straight-line basis over the service period until the award obligation during the year.
The expected return on plan assets is based on vests.
The accounting policies for share-based payments and for pensions an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long-term market and other post-retirement benefits are described below.
returns on plan assets, adjusted for the forecasts of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
The difference between the expected Share-basedpayments return on plan assets and the interest cost is recognized in the income Equity-settled transactions statement as other finance income or expense.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by Actuarial gains and losses are recognized in full within other comprehensive reference to the fair value at the date at which equity instruments are income in the year in which they occur.
granted and is recognized as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled The defined benefit pension plan surplus or deficit in the balance sheet to the award.
Fair value is determined by using an appropriate valuation comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares bonds, less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are of the company market conditions.
Non-vesting conditions, such as the to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and, condition that employees contribute to a savings-related plan, are taken in the case of quoted securities, is the published bid price.
into account in the grant-date fair value, and failure to meet a non-vesting Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognized in the income condition is treated as a cancellation, where this is within the control of statement in the period in which they become payable.
Corporatetaxes No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately vest, except Income tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which Interest and penalties relating to tax are also included in income tax are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition expense.
is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Income tax is recognized in the income statement, except to the extent At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has directly in equity, in which case the related tax is recognized in other expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or comprehensive income or directly in equity.
otherwise of non-market conditions and the number of equity instruments Current tax is based on the taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it is market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The determined in accordance with the rules established by the applicable movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date taxation authorities.
It therefore excludes items of income or expense that is recognized in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in are taxable or deductible in other periods as well as items that are never equity.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on by the balance sheet date.
the original award terms continues to be recognized over the original Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognized over the remainder differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary differences date of the modification.
No reduction is recognized if this difference is except: negative.
Where the deferred tax liability arises on the initial recognition of goodwill: or Financial statements 191 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 typically at the point that title passes, and the revenue can be reliably 1.
Significant accounting policies continued measured.
Where the deferred tax liability arises on the initial recognition of an Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor normal course of business, net of discounts, customs duties and sales taxable profit or loss: or taxes.
In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, Physical exchanges are reported net, as are sales and purchases made where the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the with a common counterparty, as part of an arrangement similar to a temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences physical exchange.
Similarly, where the group acts as agent on behalf of a will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
third party to procure or market energy commodities, any associated fee income is recognized but no purchase or sale is recorded.
Additionally, Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary where forward sale and purchase contracts for oil, natural gas or power differences, carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to have been determined to be for trading purposes, the associated sales the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against and purchases are reported net within sales and other operating revenues which the deductible temporary differences and the carry-forward of whether or not physical delivery has occurred.
unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilized: Generally, revenues from the production of oil and natural gas properties Except where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible in which the group has an interest with joint venture partners are temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or recognized on the basis of the groups working interest in those properties liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the the entitlement method.
Differences between the production sold and time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable the groups share of production are not significant.
In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with Interest income is recognized as the interest accrues using the effective investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, interest rate that is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is probable receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and carrying amount of the financial asset.
taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences Dividend income from investments is recognized when the shareholders can be utilized.
right to receive the payment is established.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance Research sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that Research costs are expensed as incurred.
sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilized.
Financecosts Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a expected to apply in the period when the asset is realized or the liability is substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, are added to settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and ready for their intended use.
All other finance costs are recognized in the liabilities are not discounted.
income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when there is a legally Useofestimates enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities The preparation of financial statements requires management to make and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or and liabilities as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the current at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts of revenues and tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realize the assets and settle expenses during the reporting period.
Actual outcomes could differ from the liabilities simultaneously.
  Customs duties and sales taxes which are passed on to customers are excluded from revenues and expenses.
Assets and liabilities are Adopted for 2012 recognized net of the amount of customs duties or sales tax except: There are no new or amended standards or interpretations adopted with effect from 1 January 2012 that have a significant impact on the financial Where the customs duty or sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods statements.
and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the customs duty or sales tax is recognized as part of the cost of Not yet adopted acquisition of the asset.
The following pronouncements from the IASB will become effective for Receivables and payables are stated with the amount of customs duty future financial reporting periods and have not yet been adopted by the or sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation Interests in other entities and related disclosures authority is included within receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
In May 2011, the IASB issued three new standards relating to interests in other entities and related disclosures.
The new standards are IFRS 10 Ownequityinstruments Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and The groups holdings in its own equity instruments, including ordinary IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
In addition, the IASB shares held by Employee Share Ownership Plans ESOPs, are classified issued amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial as treasury shares, or own shares for the ESOPs, and are shown as Statements renamed IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements and IAS 28 deductions from shareholders equity at cost.
Consideration received for Investments in Associates renamed IAS 28 Investments in Associates the sale of such shares is also recognized in equity, with any difference and Joint Ventures.
between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to the profit and loss account reserve.
No gain or loss is recognized in the IFRS 10 introduces a single consolidation model that identifies control as income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity the basis for consolidation.
The new model applies to all types of entities, shares.
Under the new model, an investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its Revenue involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns Revenue arising from the sale of goods is recognized when the significant through its power over the investee.
risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer, which is 192 Financial statements BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Financial statements In May 2011, the IASB issued a new standard, IFRS 13 Fair Value 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Measurement.
The new standard defines fair value, sets out a framework IFRS 11 establishes a principle that applies to the accounting for all joint for measuring fair value and contains the required disclosures about fair arrangements, whereby parties to the arrangement account for their value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not require fair value measurements underlying contractual rights and obligations relating to the joint in addition to those already required or permitted by other standards, arrangement.
IFRS 11 identifies two types of joint arrangements.
A joint rather it prescribes how fair value should be measured if another standard venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control requires it.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
A an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint market participants at the measurement date i. e. it is an exit price.
IFRS control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for 13 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
Investments in joint ventures BP will adopt it from this date.
For BP, no significant impact is expected as will be accounted for using the equity method.
Investments in joint a result of the adoption of IFRS 13. operations will be accounted for by recognizing the groups assets, In December 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures liabilities, revenue and expenses relating to the joint operation.
Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities and amendments to IFRS 12 combines all the disclosure requirements for an entitys interests IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
These in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured entities into amendments introduce new presentation and disclosure requirements one comprehensive disclosure standard.
about the effects of offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities and These new and amended standards are effective for annual periods related arrangements on an entitys financial position.
The amendments to beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and BP will adopt them from this IFRS 7 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January date.
The evaluation of the effect of adoption of these standards is largely 2013, with the amendments to IAS 32 effective for annual periods complete.
The main impact of this suite of new standards is that certain of beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
BP will adopt these amendments the groups existing jointly controlled entities, which are currently equity with effect from 1 January 2013 and 1 January 2014 respectively.
As a accounted, will fall under the definition of a joint operation under IFRS 11 result of the amendments to IFRS 7, the notes to BPs 2013 financial and thus we will recognize the groups assets, liabilities, revenue and statements will disclose additional information on gross and net financial expenses relating to these arrangements.
Whilst the effect on the groups instruments balances.
The evaluation of the effect of adoption of the reported income and net assets as a result of the new requirements is not amendments to IAS 32 is not expected to result in any significant changes expected to be material, the change is expected to materially impact to the offsetting of financial assets and liabilities.
certain of the component lines of the balance sheet and income In June 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of statement.
On the balance sheet, we expect a reduction in investments in Financial Statements on the presentation of other comprehensive income jointly controlled entities of approximately $7 billion, which will be OCI.
The amendments require that those items of OCI that might be replaced with the recognition on the relevant line items, principally reclassified to profit or loss at a future date be presented separately from intangible assets and property, plant and equipment of our share of the those items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss.
These assets and liabilities relating to these arrangements.
In the income amendments to IAS 1 are effective for annual periods beginning on or statement, we expect a reduction in earnings from jointly controlled after 1 July 2012.
BP will adopt the amendments with effect from entities of approximately $0.5 billion, which will be replaced with the 1 January 2013.
The adoption of the amended standard will have a recognition on the relevant line items of our share of the revenue and presentational impact on the groups statement of comprehensive expenses relating to these arrangements.
income, with no effect on the reported income or net assets of the group.
This new suite of standards was adopted by the EU in December 2012.
As part of the IASBs project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Other new standards not yet adopted Recognition and Measurement, in November 2009 the IASB issued the first phase of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, dealing with the classification In June 2011, the IASB issued an amended version of IAS 19 Employee Benefits, which brings in various changes relating to the recognition and and measurement of financial assets.
In October 2010, the IASB updated IFRS 9 by incorporating the requirements for the accounting for financial measurement of post-retirement defined benefit expense and termination benefits, and to the disclosures for all employee benefits.
The remaining phases of IFRS 9 covering impairment and hedge accounting are still to be completed.
In December 2011, the IASB impact for BP will be that the expense for defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans will include a net interest income or decided that IFRS 9 will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015, rather than 1 January 2013 as originally indicated.
BP expense, which will be calculated by applying the discount rate used for measuring the obligation and applying that to the net defined benefit asset has not yet decided the date of adoption for the group and has not yet completed its evaluation of the effect of adoption.
This means that the expected return on assets credited to profit or loss currently calculated based on the expected long-term return on With the exception of IFRS 9, the EU has now adopted all of the abovepension assets will now be based on a lower corporate bond rate, the mentioned other new standards that have been issued but not yet same rate that is used to discount the pension liability.
The amended IAS adopted by the group.
19 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and There are no other standards and interpretations in issue but not yet BP will adopt this amended standard from that date.
The evaluation of the adopted that the directors anticipate will have a material effect on the effect of adoption of the amended standard is largely complete.
Under the reported income or net assets of the group.
amended IAS 19, net finance expense income relating to pensions and other post-retirement benefits and profit before tax would have been approximately $0.8 billion and $0.7 billion lower for 2012 and 2011 respectively, with corresponding pre-tax increases in other comprehensive income.
There is no impact on cash flows or on the balance sheet at 31 December 2012.
Financial statements 193 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
