Additional disclosures as an abuse of process rather than be simply withdrawn.
The hearing of economic viability of that major capital expenditure depends on the Rosnefts appeal is scheduled to take place on 23 April 2013. successful completion of further exploration work in the area, remain capitalized on the balance sheet as long as additional exploration appraisal On 24 January 2012, the Republic of Bolivia issued a press statement work is under way or firmly planned.
declaring its intent to nationalize Pan American Energys interests in the Caipipendi Operations Contract.
Nevertheless, no formal decision has It is not unusual to have exploration wells and exploratory-type been issued or announced by the government, and no nationalization stratigraphic test wells remaining suspended on the balance sheet for process has commenced.
Pan American Energy and its shareholders BP several years while additional appraisal drilling and seismic work on the and Bridas intend to vigorously defend their legal interests under the potential oil and natural gas field is performed or while the optimum Caipipendi Operations Contract and available Bilateral Investment Treaties.
development plans and timing are established.
All such carried costs are subject to regular technical, commercial and  management review on at least an annual basis to confirm the continued intent to develop, or otherwise extract value from, the discovery.
Where The significant accounting policies of the group are summarized in this is no longer the case, the costs are immediately expensed.
Financial statements Note 1 on page 186.
The determination of the groups estimated oil and gas reserves requires Inherent in the application of many of the accounting policies used in significant judgements and estimates to be applied and these are regularly preparing the financial statements is the need for BP management to reviewed and updated.
Factors such as the availability of geological and make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported engineering data, reservoir performance data, acquisition and divestment amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements activity, drilling of new wells and commodity prices all impact on the and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period.
determination of the groups estimates of its oil and gas reserves.
BP Actual outcomes could differ from the estimates and assumptions used.
bases its proved reserves estimates on the requirement of reasonable The following summary provides more information about the critical certainty with rigorous technical and commercial assessments based on accounting judgements and estimates that could have a significant impact conventional industry practice.
on the results of the group and should be read in conjunction with the The estimation of oil and natural gas reserves and BPs process to information provided in the Notes on financial statements, including manage reserves bookings is described in Exploration and Production Oil Note 1 Significant accounting policies.
and gas disclosures on page 263, which is unaudited.
Details on BPs The areas requiring the most significant judgement and estimation in the proved reserves and production compliance and governance processes preparation of the consolidated financial statements are in relation to oil are provided on pages 84-89. and natural gas accounting, including the estimation of reserves, the Estimates of oil and gas reserves are used to calculate depreciation, recoverability of asset carrying values, business combinations, taxation, depletion and amortization charges for the groups oil and gas properties.
derivative financial instruments, provisions and contingencies, and in The impact of changes in estimated proved reserves is dealt with particular, provisions and contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil prospectively by amortizing the remaining carrying value of the asset over spill, and pensions and other post-retirement benefits.
As discussed below, oil and natural gas reserves also have a direct impact on the assessment of the recoverability Oil and natural gas accounting of asset carrying values reported in the financial statements.
The group follows the principles of the successful efforts method of If proved reserves estimates are revised downwards, earnings could be accounting for its oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and affected by higher depreciation expense or an immediate write-down of development expenditure.
The groups accounting policy for oil and the propertys carrying value see discussion of recoverability of asset natural gas exploration, appraisal and development expenditure is carrying values below.
provided in Financial statements Note 1 on page 186.
The 2012 movements in proved reserves are reflected in the tables The accounting for oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and showing movements in oil and gas reserves by region in Financial development expenditure requires the use of various judgements and statements Supplementary information on oil and natural gas unaudited estimates in managements determination of the economic viability of a on page 263.
Information on the carrying amounts of the groups oil and project based on a range of technical and commercial considerations, the gas properties, together with the amounts recognized in the income establishment of development plans and timing, and estimates of future statement as depreciation, depletion and amortization is contained in expenditure.
Financial statements Note 15 and Note 9 respectively.
Exploration licence and leasehold property acquisition costs are capitalized within intangible assets and are reviewed at each reporting date to confirm Recoverability of asset carrying values that there is no indication that the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable BP assesses its fixed assets, including goodwill, for possible impairment if amount.
This review includes confirming that exploration drilling is still under there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that carrying way or firmly planned or that it has been determined, or work is under way values of the assets may not be recoverable and, as a result, charges for to determine, that the discovery is economically viable based on a range of impairment are recognized in the groups results from time to time, with technical and commercial considerations and sufficient progress is being corresponding reductions in the carrying values of the groups assets.
made on establishing development plans and timing.
If no future activity is Such indicators include changes in the groups business plans, changes in planned, the remaining balance of the licence and property acquisition costs commodity prices leading to sustained unprofitable performance, low is written off.
Lower value licences are pooled and amortized on a straightplant utilization, evidence of physical damage, significant downward line basis over the estimated period of exploration.
revisions of estimated volumes or increases in estimated future For exploration wells and exploratory-type stratigraphic test wells, costs development expenditure.
If there are low oil prices, natural gas prices, directly associated with the drilling of wells are initially capitalized within refining margins or marketing margins during an extended period, the intangible assets, pending determination of whether potentially economic group may need to recognize significant impairment charges.
oil and gas reserves have been discovered by the drilling effort.
These The assessment for impairment entails comparing the carrying value of costs include employee remuneration, materials and fuel used, rig costs the asset or cash-generating unit with its recoverable amount, that is, the and payments made to contractors.
The determination is usually made higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use is within one year after well completion, but can take longer, depending on usually determined on the basis of discounted estimated future net cash the complexity of the geological structure.
If the well did not encounter flows.
Determination as to whether and how much an asset is impaired potentially economic oil and gas quantities, the well costs are expensed involves management estimates on highly uncertain matters such as as a dry hole and are reported in exploration expense.
Exploration wells future commodity prices, the effects of inflation on operating expenses, that discover potentially economic quantities of oil and natural gas and are discount rates, production profiles and the outlook for global or regional in areas where major capital expenditure e. g. offshore platform or a market supply-and-demand conditions for crude oil, natural gas and pipeline would be required before production could begin, and where the refined products.
Additional disclosures 171 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 For oil and natural gas properties, the expected future cash flows are the group, through negotiations with relevant tax authorities or through estimated using managements best estimate of future oil and natural gas litigation, can take several years to complete and in some cases it is prices and reserves volumes.
Prices for oil and natural gas used for future difficult to predict the ultimate outcome.
cash flow calculations are based on market prices for the first five years In addition, the group has carry-forward tax losses and tax credits in and the groups long-term price assumptions thereafter.
As at certain taxing jurisdictions that are available to offset against future taxable 31 December 2012, the groups long-term price assumptions were $90 profit.
However, deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent that per barrel for Brent and $6.50 mmBtu for Henry Hub 2011 $90 per barrel it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the unused and $6.50 mmBtu.
These long-term price assumptions are subject to tax losses or tax credits can be utilized.
Management judgement is periodic review and modification.
The estimated future level of production exercised in assessing whether this is the case.
is based on assumptions about future commodity prices, production and To the extent that actual outcomes differ from managements estimates, development costs, field decline rates, current fiscal regimes and other income tax charges or credits, and changes in deferred tax assets or factors.
liabilities, may arise in future periods.
For more information see Financial The future cash flows are adjusted for risks specific to the cash-generating statements Note 18 on page 212 and Note 43 on page 253. unit and are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate.
The discount rate is derived from the groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital and is Derivative financial instruments adjusted where applicable to take into account any specific risks relating The group uses derivative financial instruments to manage certain to the country where the cash-generating unit is located, although other exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates may be used if appropriate to the specific circumstances.
In 2012 rates and commodity prices as well as for trading purposes.
In addition, the rates ranged from 12% to 14% nominal 2011 12% to 14% nominal.
derivatives embedded within other financial instruments or other host The discount rates applied in assessments of impairment are reassessed contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and each year.
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract.
Irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, BP is Forward contracts to buy or sell equity investments, including required to test annually for impairment of goodwill acquired in a business investments in associates and joint ventures, are also accounted for as combination.
The group carries goodwill of approximately $11.9 billion on derivative financial instruments.
All such derivatives are initially recognized its balance sheet 2011 $12.1 billion, principally relating to the Atlantic at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and Richfield, Burmah Castrol, Devon Energy and Reliance transactions.
In are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives relating to testing goodwill for impairment, the group uses a similar approach to that unquoted equity instruments are carried at cost where it is not possible to described above for asset impairment.
If there are low oil prices or natural reliably measure their fair value subsequent to initial recognition.
Gains gas prices or refining margins or marketing margins for an extended and losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are not period, the group may need to recognize significant goodwill impairment designated as effective hedging instruments are recognized in the income charges.
Refer to Oil and natural gas accounting above for a discussion on the In some cases the fair values of derivatives are estimated using internal recoverability of intangible exploration and appraisal expenditure.
models and other valuation methods due to the absence of quoted prices or other observable, market-corroborated data.
This applies to the groups Details of impairment charges recognized in the income statement are longer-term, structured derivative products and complex options, to the provided in Financial statements Note 5 and details on the carrying forward contracts to purchase shares in Rosneft, as well as to the majority amounts of assets are shown in Financial statements Note 21, Note 22 of the groups natural gas embedded derivatives.
The groups embedded and Note 23. derivatives arise primarily from long-term UK gas contracts that use pricing Judgements are also required in assessing the recoverability of overdue formulae not related to gas prices, for example, oil product and power trade receivables and determining whether a provision against the future prices.
These contracts are valued using models with inputs that include recoverability of those receivables is required.
Factors considered include price curves for each of the different products that are built up from active the credit rating of the counterparty, the amount and timing of anticipated market pricing data and extrapolated to the expiry of the contracts using future payments and any possible actions that can be taken to mitigate the maximum available external pricing information.
Additionally, where the risk of non-payment.
limited data exists for certain products, prices are interpolated using historic and long-term pricing relationships.
Price volatility is also an input Business combinations for the models.
Accounting for business combinations using the acquisition method Changes in the key assumptions could have a material impact on the fair requires the determination of the fair value of the consideration value gains and losses on derivatives and embedded derivatives transferred, together with the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired recognized in the income statement.
For more information see Financial and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as statements Note 33 on page 228. being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount recognized for any minority interest and the acquisition-date fair Details of the value-at-risk techniques used by the group to measure values of any previously held interest in the acquiree over the fair value of market risk exposure arising from its derivative trading positions is the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition provided in Financial statements Note 26 on page 220.
the sensitivity of the fair value of the embedded derivatives to changes in the key assumptions is provided in Financial statements Note 26 on Judgement is required in determining whether a transaction meets the page 220. criteria to be treated as a business combination or not.
Judgements and estimates are also required in order to determine the fair values of the Provisions and contingencies assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, and the group uses all The group holds provisions for the future decommissioning of oil and available information, including external valuations and appraisals where natural gas production facilities and pipelines at the end of their economic appropriate, to determine these fair values.
If necessary, the group has up lives.
The largest decommissioning obligations facing BP relate to the to one year from the acquisition date to finalize the determinations of fair plugging and abandonment of wells and the removal and disposal of oil value.
and natural gas platforms and pipelines around the world.
The estimated Details of the business combinations undertaken by the group in 2012 are discounted costs of performing this work are recognized as we drill the provided in Financial statements Note 3 on page 198. wells and install the facilities, reflecting our legal obligations at that time.
A corresponding asset of an amount equivalent to the provision is also Taxation created within property, plant and equipment.
This asset is depreciated The computation of the groups income tax expense and liability involves over the expected life of the production facility or pipeline.
Most of these the interpretation of applicable tax laws and regulations in many decommissioning events are many years in the future and the precise jurisdictions throughout the world.
The resolution of tax positions taken by requirements that will have to be met when the removal event actually 172 Additional disclosures BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Additional disclosures occurs are uncertain.
Decommissioning technologies and costs are The total amounts that will ultimately be paid by BP in relation to all constantly changing, as well as political, environmental, safety and public obligations relating to the incident are subject to significant uncertainty expectations.
Consequently, the timing and amounts of future cash flows and the ultimate exposure and cost to BP will be dependent on many are subject to significant uncertainty.
Any changes in the expected future factors.
Furthermore, significant uncertainty exists in relation to the costs are reflected in both the provision and the asset.
amount of claims that will become payable by BP, the amount of fines that will ultimately be levied on BP including any determination of BPs Decommissioning provisions associated with downstream and culpability based on any findings of negligence, gross negligence or wilful petrochemicals facilities are generally not recognized, as such potential misconduct, the outcome of litigation and arbitration proceedings, and obligations cannot be measured, given their indeterminate settlement any costs arising from any longer-term environmental consequences of dates.
The group performs periodic reviews of its downstream and the oil spill, which will also impact upon the ultimate cost for BP.
The petrochemicals long-lived assets for any changes in facts and amount and timing of any amounts payable could also be impacted by any circumstances that might require the recognition of a decommissioning further settlements which may or may not occur.
Although the provision recognized is the current best reliable estimate of The timing and amount of future expenditures are reviewed annually, expenditures required to settle certain present obligations at the end of together with the interest rate used in discounting the cash flows.
The the reporting period, there are future expenditures for which it is not interest rate used to determine the balance sheet obligation at the end of possible to measure the obligation reliably as noted below under 2012 was 0.5% 2011 0.5%.
The interest rate is based on the real rate Contingent liabilities.
i. e. excluding the impacts of inflation on long-dated government bonds.
The total amounts that will ultimately be paid by BP in relation to all the Other provisions and liabilities are recognized in the period when it obligations relating to the accident are subject to significant uncertainty becomes probable that there will be a future outflow of funds resulting and the ultimate exposure and cost to BP will be dependent on many from past operations or events and the amount of cash outflow can be factors, as discussed under Contingent liabilities in Financial statements reliably estimated.
The timing of recognition and quantification of the Note 43 on page 253, including in relation to any new information or liability require the application of judgement to existing facts and future developments.
These could have a material impact on our circumstances, which can be subject to change.
Since the actual cash consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
The outflows can take place many years in the future, the carrying amounts of risks associated with the accident could also heighten the impact of the provisions and liabilities are reviewed regularly and adjusted to take other risks to which the group is exposed, as further described in Risk account of changing facts and circumstances.
A change in estimate of a recognized provision or liability would result in a $20-billiontrustfund charge or credit to net income in the period in which the change occurs In 2010, BP established the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust the Trust with the exception of decommissioning costs as described above.
to be funded in the amount of $20 billion over the period to the fourth Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up is quarter of 2013, which is available to satisfy legitimate individual and probable and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
business claims that were previously administered by the Gulf Coast Generally, this coincides with commitment to a formal plan of action or, if Claims Facility GCCF, state and local government claims resolved by BP, earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
The provision for final judgments and settlements, state and local response costs, and environmental liabilities is estimated based on current legal and natural resource damages and related costs.
The Trust is available to constructive requirements, technology, price levels and expected plans for satisfy claims that were previously processed through the transitional remediation.
Actual costs and cash outflows can differ from estimates court-supervised claims facility, to fund the qualified settlement funds because of changes in laws and regulations, public expectations, prices, established under the terms of the settlement agreements with the PSC discovery and analysis of site conditions and changes in clean-up administered through the Deepwater Horizon Court Supervised technology.
Settlement Program DHCSSP, and the separate BP claims programme.
The provision for environmental liabilities is reviewed at least annually.
The funding of the Trust has now been completed, with the final The interest rate used to determine the balance sheet obligation at contribution of $860 million having been made in the fourth quarter of 31 December 2012 was 0.5% 2011 0.5%.
The income statement charge for 2010 included $20 billion in relation to the trust fund, adjusted to take account of the time value of Information about the groups provisions is provided in Financial money.
Fines and penalties are not covered by the trust fund.
An asset has been recognized representing BPs right to receive As further described in Financial statements Note 43 on page 253, the reimbursement from the trust fund.
This is the portion of the estimated group is subject to claims and actions.
The facts and circumstances future expenditure provided for that will be settled by payments from the relating to particular cases are evaluated regularly in determining whether trust fund.
We use the term reimbursement asset to describe this asset.
it is probable that there will be a future outflow of funds and, once BP will not actually receive any reimbursements from the trust fund, established, whether a provision relating to a specific litigation should be instead payments will be made directly to claimants from the trust fund, established or revised.
Accordingly, significant management judgement and BP will be released from its corresponding obligation.
relating to provisions and contingent liabilities is required, since the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict.
The $20-billion trust fund may not be sufficient to satisfy all claims under the Oil Pollution Act 1990 OPA 90 or otherwise that will ultimately be Gulf of Mexico oil spill paid.
Detailed information on the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, including the financial  impacts, is provided in Financial statements Note 2 on page 194.
It is not possible, at this time, to measure reliably other obligations arising As a consequence of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, as described on from the accident, namely any obligation in relation to Natural Resource pages 59-62, BP continues to incur various costs and has also recognized Damages claims except for the estimated costs of the assessment phase liabilities for future costs.
Liabilities of uncertain timing or amount and and the costs relating to early restoration agreements, the cost of contingent liabilities have been accounted for and or disclosed in business economic loss claims under the PSC settlement not yet received accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent or processed by the DHCSSP, or any other potential litigation including assets.
BPs rights and obligations in relation to the $20-billion trust fund through excluded parties from the PSC settlement and any obligation in which was established in 2010, and in relation to the qualifying settlement relation to other potential private or governmental litigation, fines or funds established pursuant to the agreement with the Plaintiffs Steering penalties except for the Clean Water Act civil penalty claims and Committee PSC, are accounted for in accordance with IFRIC 5 Rights to governmental claims, nor is it practicable to estimate their magnitude or interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and environmental possible timing of payment.
Therefore no amounts have been provided for rehabilitation funds.
these obligations as at 31 December 2012.
Additional disclosures 173 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
