Independent auditors statement To the members of BP p. l. c. We have examined the summary consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the summary group income statement, the summary group statement of comprehensive income, the summary group cash flow statement, the summary group balance sheet and the related Notes 1 to 8.
This statement is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 428 4 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors statement and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditor The directors are responsible for preparing the Summary Review 2012 in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summarized financial statements within the Summary Review 2012 with the full annual consolidated financial statements, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Directors Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Summary Review 2012 and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summarized financial statements.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our reports on the consolidated and parent company financial statements describe the basis of our opinions on those financial statements, the Directors Remuneration Report, and the Directors Report.
Opinion In our opinion the summarized financial statements are consistent with the full annual consolidated financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2012 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006, and the regulations made thereunder.
Emphasis of matter significant uncertainty over provisions and contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill Our report on the consolidated financial statements of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2012 contained within BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 includes an emphasis of matter on the significant uncertainty over provisions and contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
In forming our opinion on the summarized financial statements, we have considered the adequacy of the disclosures made in Note 2 of the summarized financial statements which summarize the disclosures in the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 concerning the provisions, future expenditure for which reliable estimates cannot be made and other contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill significant event.
The total amounts that will ultimately be paid by BP in relation to all obligations relating to the incident are subject to significant uncertainty and the ultimate exposure and cost to BP will be dependent on many factors.
Furthermore, significant uncertainty exists in relation to the amount of claims that will become payable by BP, the amount of fines that will ultimately be levied on BP including any determination of BPs culpability based on any findings of negligence, gross negligence or wilful misconduct, the outcome of litigation and arbitration proceedings, and any costs arising from any longer-term environmental consequences of the oil spill, which will also impact upon the ultimate cost for BP.
Our opinion on the summarized financial statements is not qualified in respect of these matters.
Ernst & Young LLP Statutory auditor London 6 March 2013 Directors statement The auditor has issued unqualified reports on the consolidated and parent company financial statements, the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report and on the consistency of the Directors Report with those financial statements.
Their report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report contained no statement under sections 498 2 or 498 3 of the Companies Act 2006.
The maintenance and integrity of the BP p. l. c. website are the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
