On 22 October 2012, BP announced that it had signed heads of terms for  a proposed transaction to sell its 50% share in TNK-BP to Rosneft.
Following this agreement, BPs investment in TNK-BP met the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
See Note 4 for further information.
Significant accounting policies During 2010 a separate organization was created within the group to deal  with the ongoing response to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
This organization  reports directly to the group chief executive officer and its costs are The consolidated financial statements of the BP group for the year ended excluded from the results of the operating segments.
Under IFRS its 31 December 2012 were approved and signed by the group chief costs are therefore presented as a reconciling item between the sum of executive on 6 March 2013 having been duly authorized to do so by the the results of the reportable segments and the group results.
BP p. l. c. is a public limited company incorporated and The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the domiciled in England and Wales.
The consolidated financial statements groups accounting policies described in this note, except that IFRS have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting requires that the measure of profit or loss disclosed for each operating Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards segment is the measure that is provided regularly to the chief operating Board IASB, IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and in decision maker.
For BP, this measure of profit or loss is replacement cost accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006.
IFRS as profit before interest and tax which reflects the replacement cost of adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the supplies by excluding from profit inventory holding gains and losses.
IASB, however, the differences have no impact on the groups Replacement cost profit for the group is not a recognized measure under consolidated financial statements for the years presented.
The significant generally accepted accounting practice GAAP.
For further information accounting policies of the group are set out below.
Basisofpreparation  The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties with IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations venturers undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
issued and effective for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The standards Joint control exists only when the strategic financial and operating and interpretations adopted in the year are described further on page 192. decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the The accounting policies that follow have been consistently applied to all venturers.
A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture that involves the years presented.
establishment of a company, partnership or other entity to engage in Subsequent to releasing our unaudited fourth quarter and full year 2012 economic activity that the group jointly controls with its fellow venturers.
results announcement dated 5 February 2013, an adjustment of $0.8 The results, assets and liabilities of a jointly controlled entity are billion has been made to provisions relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of as at 31 December 2012, with a corresponding adjustment to the accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in a jointly reimbursement asset.
There was no impact on profit or loss for the year.
controlled entity is carried in the balance sheet at cost, plus postFor further information see Note 36.
In addition, an adjustment has been acquisition changes in the groups share of net assets of the jointly made to correct a $4.7 billion understatement of revenue and purchases controlled entity, less distributions received and less any impairment in for the year ended 31 December 2012.
There was no impact on profit or value of the investment.
Loans advanced to jointly controlled entities that loss for the year.
have the characteristics of equity financing are also included in the investment on the group balance sheet.
The group income statement The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars $ million, except where reflects the groups share of the results after tax of the jointly controlled entity.
For further information regarding the key judgements and estimates made Financial statements of jointly controlled entities are prepared for the same reporting year as the group.
Where necessary, adjustments are by management in applying the groups accounting policies, refer to Critical accounting policies on pages 171-174, which forms part of these made to those financial statements to bring the accounting policies used into line with those of the group.
Unrealized gains on transactions between the group and its jointly Basisofconsolidation controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the jointly controlled entities.
Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless BP p. l. c. and the entities it controls its subsidiaries drawn up to the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset 31 December each year.
Control comprises the power to govern the transferred.
financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct and indirect ownership of voting The group assesses investments in jointly controlled entities for rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that of contractual agreement.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of their acquisition, being the date on which the group obtains control, and impairment exists, the carrying amount of the investment is compared continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
The with its recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value less costs to financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year sell and value in use.
Where the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
Intercompany amount, the investment is written down to its recoverable amount.
balances and transactions, including unrealized profits arising from The group ceases to use the equity method of accounting on the date intragroup transactions, have been eliminated.
Unrealized losses are from which it no longer has joint control or significant influence over the eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the joint venture or associate respectively, or when the interest becomes asset transferred.
Minority interests represent the equity in subsidiaries that classified as an asset held for sale.
is not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the group.
Certain of the groups activities, particularly in the Upstream segment, are Segmentalreporting conducted through joint ventures where the venturers have a direct The groups operating segments are established on the basis of those ownership interest in, and jointly control, the assets of the venture.
BP components of the group that are evaluated regularly by the chief recognizes, on a line-by-line basis in the consolidated financial statements, operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in its share of the assets, liabilities and expenses of these jointly controlled assessing performance.
With effect from 1 January 2012, the former assets incurred jointly with the other partners, along with the groups Exploration and Production segment was separated to form two new income from the sale of its share of the output and any liabilities and operating segments, Upstream and TNK-BP, reflecting the way in which expenses that the group has incurred in relation to the venture.
our investment in TNK-BP is managed.
In addition, we began reporting the Refining and Marketing segment as Downstream.
186 Financial statements BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
