com annualreport Building a stronger, safer BP The Summary Review for the year ended 31 December 2012 constitutes the summary financial statement and Trade marks of the BP group appear comprises summaries of the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report and a summary of the information in the consolidated financial statements.
The summary financial statement complies with the throughout this Summary Review in italics.
information requirements under the Companies Summary Financial Statement Regulations 2008.
It does not They include: contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and the state of affairs of BP and of its policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration as BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012.
Castrol EDGE Shareholders may obtain a copy of BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 online or on request, free of charge Designer Water see outer back cover.
Field of the Future BP p. l. c. is the parent company of the BP group of companies.
Unless otherwise stated, the text does not LoSal distinguish between the activities and operations of the parent company and those of its subsidiaries.
Pushing Reservoir Limits The term shareholder in this Summary Review means, unless the context otherwise requires, investors in the EcoBoost is a trade mark of Ford Motor equity capital of BP p. l. c. both direct and or indirect.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 and BP Summary Review 2012 may be downloaded from bp.
No material on the BP website, other than the items identified as BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 and BP Summary Review 2012, forms any part of those documents.
As BP shares, in the form of ADSs, are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, an Annual Report on Form 20-F is filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in accordance with the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
When filed, copies may be obtained free of charge see above.
BP discloses in BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 and on its website at bp.
com  significant ways if any in which its corporate Segment changes governance practices differ from those mandated for US companies under NYSE listing standards.
With effect from 1 January 2012 the Cautionary statement Exploration and Production segment was split BP Summary Review 2012 contains certain forecasts, projections and forward-looking statements that is, to form two new operating segments, statements related to future, not past events with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of BP and certain of the plans and objectives of BP with respect to these items.
These statements Upstream and TNK-BP, reflecting the way in may generally, but not always, be identified by the use of words such as will, expects, is expected to, aims, which we were managing our investment in should, may, objective, is likely to, intends, believes, anticipates, plans, we see or similar expressions.
Comparative data has been restated In particular, among other statements, certain statements with regard to expectations regarding BPs agreement to reflect this change.
For information on our with and prospective shareholding in Rosneft, including BPs expectations regarding its representation on the Rosneft board, the composition of the board of directors, expectations regarding our strategy and strategic subsequent agreement to sell our interest in priorities including our Upstream and Downstream strategies and our longer-term objectives, plans to deliver TNK-BP to Rosneft, see page 19.
On the shareholder value, plans to continue to simplify the organization and portfolio, prospects for the settlement of same date the Refining and Marketing outstanding claims related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, plans to continue to meet commitments in the Gulf segment was renamed Downstream, with no Coast region, plans to implement the recommendations of the Bly Report, plans to appoint two independent monitors and an independent auditor, BPs intention to prioritize operating cash flow and replacement cost changes in the composition of the segment.
operating profit over barrels of production, plans to work to focus and improve the business, plans to enhance safety and earn back trust, projections regarding the ability of renewable energy sources to meet total energy demand, expectations regarding investments in proprietary technology, expectations regarding LoSal technology, plans to sell assets and entities, expectations regarding the future level of capital expenditures through to the end of the decade, plans to focus on efficient execution and use of capital, expectations regarding the amount of divestments per year, the expected level of gearing, plans to prioritize value rather than seeking to grow production volume for its own sake, expectations regarding the 10-point plan, BPs outlook on global energy trends to 2030 and beyond, BPs outlook on its ability to meet the growing demand for energy, the intention to make $2-3 billion in disposals per annum on an ongoing basis, BPs plans to grow operating cash flow and margins by 2014 and the expected quantum of growth, plans for the use of expected improved cash flow, plans to grow free cash flow in Downstream, expectations regarding the level and types of investments and divestments, BPs plans for involvement in growth markets, the anticipated timing for completion of the Summary Review disposition of certain BP assets and entities and estimates of the final proceeds therefrom, future production 2012 bp.
com annualreport levels including expectations for an increase in high-margin production, the timing and composition of future projects including expected Final Investment Decisions start-up, construction, commissioning, completion, timing of production, level of production and margins, expectations for drilling and rig activity in the Gulf of Mexico, expectations for growth in operating cash flows, expectations for the number of rigs in operation, the estimated cost of the settlements with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee in MDL 2179, the expected amount, source and timing of payments under any settlements related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, expectations with regard to the terms of any settlements and BPs compliance therewith, the anticipated effect of accounting changes on BPs earnings and cash flow, plans and timing for the completion of the upgrade to and start up of the Whiting refinery, prospects for Upstreams contribution to BPs plans to increase operating cash flow by around 50% by 2014, expectations regarding the unit operating cash margins of new upstream projects, BPs strategies with regard to optimizing value across the business, plans regarding BPs PTA project, expectations regarding the market for lubricants and petrochemicals, expectations regarding Downstream capital expenditures, the completion of planned and announced divestments, including the announced disposal of TNK-BP to Rosneft and acquisition of an 18.5% shareholding in Rosneft, the planned disposals of the Carson refinery and the southern part of the US West Coast FVC, dates or periods in which production is scheduled or expected to come onstream or a project or Building a stronger, action is scheduled or expected to begin or be completed, and the level of future turnaround activity: are all safer BP forward-looking in nature.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future and are outside the control of BP.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in such statements, depending on a variety of factors, including the specific factors identified in the discussions accompanying such forward-looking Front cover statements: the receipt of relevant third-party and or government approvals: the timing of bringing new fields onstream: the timing of certain disposals: future levels of industry product supply, demand and pricing, including Lingen refinery in Germany is one supply growth in North America: OPEC quota restrictions: PSA effects: operational problems: general economic of the most complex refineries in conditions: political stability and economic growth in relevant areas of the world: changes in laws and the world.
It is able to upgrade governmental regulations: regulatory or legal actions including the types of enforcement action pursued and the heavy and acidic crudes into nature of remedies sought: the actions of prosecutors, regulatory authorities and courts: the actions of the Claims Administrator appointed under the Economic and Property Damages Settlement: the actions of all parties to the products, and all its gasoline and Gulf of Mexico oil spill-related litigation at various phases of the litigation: exchange rate fluctuations: diesel products have very low development and use of new technology: the success or otherwise of partnering: the actions of competitors: the levels of sulphur.
actions of contractors: natural disasters and adverse weather conditions: changes in public expectations and other changes to business conditions: wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage: and other factors discussed elsewhere in this document and in BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012.
In addition to factors set forth elsewhere in this document, those set out above are important factors, although not exhaustive, that may cause actual results and Left and right images: The refinery developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
produces biofuels by blending Reconciliations to GAAP diesel with rapeseed oil methyl This Summary Review contains financial information that is not presented in accordance with generally accepted ester, and ethanol with gasoline.
A quantitative reconciliation of this information to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP can be found in BP Annual Report and Centre image: a BP employee Form 20-F 2012. measures the gas-burner temperature at one of the refinerys The registered office of BP p. l. c. is 1 St Jamess Square, London SW1Y 4PD, UK.
Registered in England and Wales no.
BP Summary Review 2 BP at a glance 22 Summary directors remuneration Contents report An overview of BP in 2012.
An overview of remuneration by the committee 6 Chairmans letter chair, 2012 outcomes in summary and details of our 2013 policy.
Carl-Henric Svanberg sets out the boards priorities in 2012 and BPs prospects moving 25 Summary consolidated financial forward.
statements 8 Group chief executives letter 26 Notes Bob Dudley reviews the companys progress as we work to build a stronger, safer BP.
29 Definitions 10 Our business model 30 Independent auditors statement An overview of how we are organized, the ways in which we create value, and our distinctive 30 Directors statement strengths.
31 Supplementary information 15 Our strategy Our priorities as we work to create a distinctive platform for growth.
32 Board of directors BPs board of directors, as at 6 March 2013.
17 Our performance From progress in Russia to new exploration 33 Shareholder information access: a review of important actions and events Find out more about the new BP registrar and the during the year.
services available to BP shareholders.
20 Our key performance indicators How we performed as measured by our key financial and non-financial indicators.
