Disposals and non-current assets held for sale As a result of the groups disposal programme, various assets and associated liabilities, have been presented as held for sale in the group balance sheet at 31 December 2012.
The carrying amount of the assets held for sale is $19,315 million, with associated liabilities of $846 million.
The majority of the transactions noted below are subject to post-closing adjustments, which may include adjustments for working capital and adjustments for profits attributable to the purchaser between the agreed effective date and the closing date of the transaction.
Such post-closing adjustments may result in the final amounts received by BP from the purchasers differing from the disposal proceeds noted below.
Upstream On 28 November 2012 BP announced that it had agreed to sell its interests in a number of central North Sea oil and gas fields to TAQA for $1,058 million plus future payments which, dependent on oil price and production, are currently expected to exceed $250 million after tax.
The assets included in the sale are BPs interests in the BP-operated Maclure, Harding and Devenick fields and non-operated interests in the Brae complex of fields and the Braemar field.
The sale is subject to third-party and regulatory approvals and is expected to complete in the second quarter of 2013.
Downstream On 13 August 2012 BP announced that it had agreed to sell its Carson refinery in California and related assets in the region, including marketing and logistics assets, to Tesoro Corporation for $2.5 billion.
The assets, and associated liabilities, of the refinery and related assets are classified as held for sale in the group balance sheet at 31 December 2012.
Completion is subject to regulatory and other approvals, and the transaction is expected to close by the middle of 2013.
On 1 February 2013 BP announced that it had completed the sale of its Texas City refinery and a portion of its retail and logistics network in the south-eastern US to Marathon Petroleum Corporation for $0.6 billion in relation to the fixed assets, $1.1 billion related to working capital, principally inventory, and a six-year earn-out arrangement, of up to $0.7 billion, based on future margins and refinery throughput.
The consideration is subject to post-closing adjustments and will be fair-valued for accounting purposes.
The assets, and associated liabilities, of the refinery and related retail and logistics network are classified as held for sale in the group balance sheet at 31 December 2012.
TNK-BP On 22 October 2012 BP announced that it had signed heads of terms for a proposed transaction to sell its 50% share in TNK-BP to Rosneft.
From this date, BPs investment in TNK-BP met the criteria to be classified as an asset held for sale.
Consequently, BP ceased equity accounting for its share of TNK-BPs earnings from the date of the announcement.
The TNK-BP segment result also includes a dividend of $709 million paid by TNK-BP subsequent to the reclassification.
BP continues to report its share of TNK-BPs production and reserves until the transaction closes.
On 22 November 2012 BP announced that it, Rosneft and Rosneftegaz the Russian state-owned parent company of Rosneft had signed definitive and binding sale and purchase agreements for the sale of BPs 50% interest in TNK-BP to Rosneft and for BPs investment in Rosneft.
On completion, the overall effect of the transaction will be that BP will receive $11.6 billion in cash $12.3 billion previously announced less the $0.7 billion dividend received by BP, subject to closing adjustments, and acquire an 18.5% stake in Rosneft for its stake in TNK-BP.
Combined with BPs existing 1.25% shareholding, this will result in BP owning 19.75% of Rosneft.
Completion of the transaction is subject to certain customary closing conditions, including governmental, regulatory and anti-trust approvals.
Completion is expected to occur in the first half of 2013.
Dividends The quarterly dividend expected to be paid on 28 March 2013 in respect of the fourth quarter 2012 is 9 cents per ordinary share $0.54 per American Depositary Share ADS.
The corresponding amount in sterling will be announced on 18 March 2013.
A scrip dividend alternative is available, allowing shareholders to elect to receive their dividend in the form of new ordinary shares and ADS holders in the form of new ADSs.
