Our business model Through our business model we aim to create value across the hydrocarbon value chain.
This starts with exploration and ends with the supply of energy and other products fundamental to everyday life.
BP is the largest foreign investor in Azerbaijan and operates two production-sharing We also hold a 50% shareholding in the major agreements  and Shah Who we are Russian oil company TNK-BP, which owns Deniz and other exploration leases.
Above is BP is one of the worlds leading integrated oil upstream and downstream assets.
In a the West Azeri platform.
We aim to create value November, marking what we expect to be an for shareholders by helping to meet growing exciting new future for BP in Russia, we signed demand for energy in a responsible way.
We final, binding agreements with Rosneft, Russias strive to be a safety leader in our industry, a leading oil company, for the sale of our share in world-class operator, a responsible corporate TNK-BP for $12.3 billion in cash which includes citizen and a good employer.
a dividend of $0.7 billion received from TNK-BP Through our work we provide customers in December 2012 and an 18.5% stake in with fuel for transportation, energy for heat Rosneft.
The transaction is expected to and light, lubricants to keep engines moving, complete in the first half of 2013.
Combined and the petrochemicals products used to make with BPs existing 1.25% shareholding, this will everyday items as diverse as paints, clothes and result in BP owning 19.75% of Rosneft.
Our projects and operations help to In renewable energy, our investments and generate employment, investment and tax activities are focused on biofuels and wind.
revenues in countries and communities around In addition, our emerging businesses and the world.
ventures unit invests in a broad range of energy At each stage of the hydrocarbon value chain projects and technologies.
Our renewables and there are opportunities for us to create value venturing activities are managed through our both through the successful execution of Alternative Energy business, see page 18. activities that are core to our industry, and through Our commitments the application of our own distinctive strengths and capabilities in performing those activities.
Keeping a relentless focus on safety is the top priority for everyone at BP.
How we are organized Rigorous management of risk helps to We have two main business segments: protect the people at the front line, the places Upstream and Downstream.
Through these we in which we operate and the value we create.
find, develop and produce essential sources of We understand that operating in politically energy, and turn these sources into products complex regions and technically demanding that people need.
geographies requires particular sensitivity to a On the basis of market capitalization, proved reserves local environments.
10 BP Summary Review 2012 The relationships we form with shareholders, Our presence Our market in 2012 governments, regulators, non-governmental As a global group, our interests and activities Global demand for energy continued to organizations, local communities, customers, are held or operated through subsidiaries, expand modestly in 2012, with a weak franchisees, partners, contractors, suppliers and branches, joint ventures or associates economy and high oil prices weighing on others in our industry are crucial to the success established in and subject to the laws and demand.
As a result, the growth in world oil of our business.
We are committed to building regulations of many different jurisdictions.
With oil long-lasting relationships, meeting our obligations Our worldwide headquarters is in London.
markets balancing lower production from and acting responsibly.
The UK is a centre for trading, legal, finance certain countries against weak consumption We believe that the best way to achieve and other business functions as well as three and high OPEC Organization of Petroleum sustainable success as a group is to act in the of BPs major global research and technology Exporting Countries production, average long-term interests of our shareholders, our groups.
We have well-established operations crude oil prices in 2012 were similar to the partners and society.
Through our work we in Europe, the US, Canada, Russia, South previous year.
Natural gas prices continued aim to create value for our investors and America, Australasia, Asia and parts of Africa.
to diverge globally in 2012, with lower prices benefits for the communities and societies BP has freehold and leasehold interests in real in the US and increases in Europe and the in which we operate, with the safe and estate in numerous countries, but no individual Far East.
responsible supply of energy playing a vital property is significant to the group as a whole.
Value creation Crude oil and gas prices, and rening Our people We seek to add value at each stage of our margins $ per barrel of oil equivalent We employ nearly 86,000 people, including operations, from exploration to marketing.
Dated Brent oil price Henry Hub gas price 14,700 service station staff in Europe and We believe that by operating across the full First of Month Index Average rening marker margin RMM Asia.
The majority of our employees are hydrocarbon value chain we can create more located in the US and Europe.
The qualities value for shareholders, as benefits and costs 150 and abilities of our employees have a powerful can often be shared by our segments.
effect on our ability to compete and meet our Integration also enables us to develop shared 125 commitments to investors and the wider functional excellence in areas such as safety 100 world.
We provide a range of professional and operational risk, environmental and social development programmes and training to practices, procurement, technology and 75 help our employees develop their skills and treasury management more efficiently.
We are committed to creating an 50 inclusive work environment where everyone is treated fairly, with dignity, respect and without 25 discrimination.
Material improvement Purified terephthalic acid PTA is the primary raw material for polyester, which is used in textiles and packaging.
Our proprietary PTA technology has significantly lower capital and operating costs compared with conventional PTA plants.
Our estimates suggest that it discharges 75% less water, generates 65% lower greenhouse gas emissions and 95% lower solids waste compared with competing technologies.
We have invested significantly in this proprietary technology and believe that maximum value for BP will come from both investing in projects such as our Zhuhai 3 project in Guangdong, China and through licensing.
We announced our first third-party, non-affiliate, PTA licensing deal in July to JBF Petrochemicals.
They intend to build a 1.25 million tonnes per annum PTA unit in India expected onstream at the end of 2014.
Our work with PTA is part of an ongoing research and development programme designed to improve the manufacturing efficiency in petrochemicals.
Along with PTA, we have industry leading technology, intellectual property and know-how in paraxylene and acetic acid.
BP Summary Review 2012 11 Salt reduction promises healthy returns Typically, less than 35% of the oil in a field is extracted, even when wells are flooded with water to increase recovery.
That means important resources are currently left untapped, all over the world.
The LoSal flooding process is set to significantly improve recovery rates.
Developed at BPs UK research centre, the LoSal flooding process uses water with a low salt content, which releases more molecules of oil from the sandstone rock in which they are held.
Following a successful trial in the Endicott field in Alaska, we are applying LoSal where appropriate in our portfolio.
In 2012 Clair Ridge in the North Sea became the first large-scale offshore scheme to deploy the technology.
BP estimates that this breakthrough technology part of BPs suite of Designer Water enhanced oil recovery technologies will increase production by around 42 million barrels of additional oil, compared with conventional water flooding methods.
We aim to protect value by maintaining a Our distinctive strengths Energy outlook rigorous focus on safety, reliability and and capabilities We believe oil and natural gas are likely efficiency across our range of activities.
We We consider our areas of distinctive strength to to represent about 53% of total energy often work with partners to mitigate risk or gain include: consumption in 2030.
Renewable energy is from complementary skills.
the fastest growing fuel: however, it is starting Exploration acquiring access and searching Finding oil and gas from a low base and we project that it is only for hydrocarbons.
First, we acquire the rights to explore for oil likely to meet around 6% of total energy Deep water we have a long track record and gas.
Through new access we are able to demand by this point.
in finding, developing and producing renew our portfolio, discover new resources hydrocarbons in deep water.
and replenish our development options.
com energyoutlook Giant fields managing the scale and Developing and extracting oil and gas complexity of fields with resources believed to a When we are successful in finding hydrocarbon exceed 500 million boe.
resources, we create value by seeking to Gas value chains seeking to add value as Energy consumption by fuel progress them into proved reserves or by gas moves from field to customer.
billion tonnes of oil equivalent selling them on if they do not fit with our Downstream the pursuit of safe, reliable and Renewables Nuclear Gas strategic objectives.
efficient operations, and leading returns, across Hydro Coal Oil fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals.
If we believe developing and producing the 18 reserves will be advantageous for BP, we will These are underpinned by our development 16 produce the oil and gas, then sell it to the and application of technology and our ability 14 market or distribute it to our downstream to build strong relationships.
10 have a long-established integrated supply and trading function.
8 Transporting and trading oil and gas 6 We move oil and gas through pipelines and Strong relationships 4 by ship, truck and rail.
We use our trading We are seeing an evolution in our industry, 2 and supply skills and knowledge to find the with international oil companies such as BP 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 best routes to deliver supplies to the most establishing new kinds of partnerships and Includes biofuels.
co-operation with governments, national oil Source: BP Energy Outlook 2030. companies and other resource holders.
The Manufacturing and marketing fuels benefits of our value-creating activity are and products shared with governments and other partners.
Using our technology and expertise, we We seek opportunities to develop and deploy manufacture fuels and products, creating value by seeking to operate a high-quality portfolio of distinctive capabilities that complement those of our partners.
We also partner with universities well-located assets safely, reliably and efficiently.
Our business model We market our products to consumers and other and governments in pursuit of improving the For more information see BP at a glance technologies available to us, so we can enhance end-users and add value through the strength of on pages 2-3. our brands.
our operations and develop new products.
We aim to support and improve standards in our a Actual amount of proved reserves of such fields on a basis recognized by the SEC may be less than this.
12 BP Summary Review 2012 Upstream technology flagships Field of the Future Inherently reliable facilities Well advisor Applying real-time Managing and reducing BP deliver safe, reliable data capabilities to integrity risk.
and efficient well operations enable safe and through the integration efficient operations.
Deepwater facilities Delivering fully qualied integrated production technology solutions that safely maximise value from Advanced seismic imaging BPs deepwater portfolio.
Locating and accessing new resource through industry-leading imaging.
Unconventional gas Recovering gas from unconventional rocks using innovative technologies.
Heavy oil Developing new technologies Beyond sand control Pushing Reservoir Limits to recover heavy oil.
Maximizing production Growing recovery factors and managing risk from to maximize resources sand-prone reservoirs.
industry by participating in industry bodies, Upstream Technology engaging with our peers on important issues, Our Upstream segment is responsible for our For more on the role of technology at BP and where appropriate setting voluntary activities in oil and natural gas exploration, see bp.
standards above those required by current field development and production, and regulation.
And we carry out regular reviews midstream transportation, storage and and audit processes with contractors and processing.
We also market and trade natural suppliers, which help to maintain strong links gas, including liquefied natural gas, power across our operations and activities.
We focus on areas Technology that play to our strengths, particularly We believe our development and application exploration, deep water, gas value chains and of technology is central to our reputation and giant fields.
For us, technology is the practical application of scientific knowledge In 2012 our upstream and midstream activities to manage risks, capture business value and took place in 28 countries including Angola, inform strategy development.
This includes the Azerbaijan, Canada, Egypt, Norway, Trinidad & research, development, demonstration and Tobago, the UK, the US and other locations within acquisition of new technical capabilities and Asia, Australasia, South America, North Africa support for the deployment of BPs know-how.
We increased our acreage in Trinidad & Tobago, Our investments are focused on access to where our production comprises oil, gas and Our Upstream segment manages its exploration, resources, process efficiency, product NGLs, by 899,000 acres in 2012.
Below is the development and production activities through formulation and lower-carbon opportunities.
We Rowan drilling platform, offshore Trinidad.
global functions with specialist areas of expertise.
monitor the potential opportunities and risks presented by emerging science, interdisciplinary We actively manage our portfolio and are placing innovation and new players: natural resource increasing emphasis on accessing, developing issues and climate concerns: and evolving and producing from fields able to provide policy, including the current emphasis on energy high-margin barrels those with the potential to security and efficiency.
make the greatest contribution to our operating cash flow.
We sell assets when we believe they BPs technology advisory council, comprised may be more valuable to others.
This allows us to of eminent business and academic technology focus our leadership, technical resources and leaders, provides the board and executive organizational capability on the resources we management with an independent view of BPs believe are likely to add the most value to our capabilities judged against the highest industrial portfolio.
Our upstream technologies support BPs Supply and trading business strategy by focusing on safety and We buy and sell at each stage in the value operational risks, helping to obtain new access, chain to optimize value for the group, often increasing recovery and reserves and improving selling our own production and buying from production efficiency.
Our strengths in elsewhere to satisfy demand from our refineries exploration, deep water, giant fields and gas value and customers.
We also aim to create value chains are underpinned by dedicated flagship through entrepreneurial trading, where our technology programmes.
presence across major energy trading hubs gives us a good understanding of regional and international markets.
BP Summary Review 2012 13 Downstream technology Rening technology Optimizes crude oil selection, utilization and renery processing capability to produce high-quality petroleum products.
End products: fuels, oils, bitumen, coke.
Fuels technology Develops and implements new high-efficiency fuel products.
End products: gasoline, diesel, aviation fuel, marine fuel.
Lubricants technology Develops unique lubricants and high-performance uids for transportation and industrial applications.
Petrochemicals technology Develops, deploys and optimizes proprietary technologies to produce high-value petrochemicals intermediates.
End products: Conversion technology solvents resins, plastics, Conversion of unconventional textiles bres, paints.
feedstocks, including renewables, to fuels and petrochemicals.
co-engineered with Ford during the Downstream development of its newly released EcoBoost Our Downstream segment is the product engine, which offers a significant improvement and service-led arm of BP, focused on fuels, in efficiency.
It is The segment comprises three businesses: responsible for the refining, manufacturing, fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals, each of marketing, transportation, and supply and which operates as a value chain.
trading of crude oil, petroleum, petrochemicals products and related services to wholesale and Our fuels business sells refined petroleum retail customers.
products including gasoline, diesel and aviation fuel and liquefied petroleum gas.
Within the fuels business, fuels value chains integrate the The Downstream segment markets products in activities of refining, logistics, marketing, and over 70 countries and has significant operations supply and trading on a regional basis.
in Europe, North America, Australasia and Asia.
This provides the opportunity to optimize our We also manufacture and market our products activities from crude oil purchases to across southern Africa and Central and South end-consumer sales all the way through America.
our refineries, terminals, pipelines and retail We aim to be excellent in the markets in which stations.
The lubricants business is focusing on the growth we choose to participate those that allow BP markets of Brazil, India and China.
Below, a Our lubricants business is involved in to serve the major energy markets of the world.
Castrol laboratory technician in Brazil, where manufacturing and marketing lubricants and Our aim is to operate all of our businesses as Castrol lubricants have been sold since the 1950s.
related services to markets around the world.
safe and reliable value chains, where we We add value through the strength of our participate in multiple stages of each supply brands and through strategic collaboration with chain, as we believe that way we can deliver original equipment manufacturing partners greater returns than would arise from owning where we seek to develop new higha collection of discrete assets.
These value performance lubricants such as Castrol EDGE.
chains, combined with our advantaged manufacturing operations and expertise in Our global petrochemicals business technology, allow us to pursue competitive manufactures and markets petrochemicals that returns and sustainable growth, as we serve are used in many everyday products, such as customers and promote BP and our brands paints, plastic bottles and textiles.
Value is through high quality products.
As in our derived from our strong customer relationships Upstream segment, we will sell assets when and joint-venture partners, and through the we believe that to do so would generate more application of our world-class, proprietary value than retaining them in our own portfolio.
Technology makes a critical contribution to our downstream activities.
Through the research, development and deployment of a wide range of technologies, processes and techniques, we aim to enhance safety and risk management, improve our margins, increase efficiency and reliability, and create new market opportunities.
For example, in lubricants we launched an oil 14 BP Summary Review 2012
