BT Group plc Summary financial statement & notice of meeting 2012 21 AGM information Time and place of meeting Security 11am on Wednesday 11 July 2012 at For security reasons and to speed up admission, please Old Billingsgate do not bring suitcases, large bags, a camera, laptop 1 Old Billingsgate Walk computer or tape recorder.
If you do, you may be asked London to deposit them in a secure property store for collection EC3R 6DX after the meeting.
Programme Mobile devices 10am Doors open to shareholders Please ensure that mobile devices are switched off during the meeting.
11am Meeting commences Shareholders with disabilities 1pm approx Meeting ends The following facilities will be available: You can nd further information about the venue sound amplication at www.
co. uk induction loop Who may attend sign language interpretation.
If you are on the BT Group Register of Members at 6pm The venue is wheelchair accessible.
There is accessible on 9 July 2012, you are entitled to attend, speak and parking in the Tower Hill Corporation of London car park vote at the AGM.
If you are unable to attend the meeting, nearby.
There are designated spaces for wheelchair users you can appoint another person a proxy to attend the in the auditorium.
meeting, speak, and or vote on your behalf.
This can be If you have any questions about access requirements, done online or by post.
The number of shares you hold at the above register deadline will decide how many please email the venue customer service manager votes you or your proxy ies will have on a poll.
For more at info@oldbillingsgate.
co. uk information about appointing a proxy, please read the notes on the enclosed AGM admission card proxy card.
Refreshments If you are joint shareholders, all of you can attend and Tea and coffee will be available before, but not during, speak at the meeting.
If more than one joint holder votes, the meeting.
We will hand you a voucher on arrival, which only the vote of the first shareholder listed on the Register will entitle you to light refreshments served after the of Members will be counted.
Non-shareholders who are accompanying shareholders Questions will be admitted at the discretion of the Company.
Anyone The Chairman will answer questions you may have about accompanying a shareholder who is in a wheelchair, or is any of the resolutions.
If you wish to ask a question, otherwise in need of assistance, will be admitted to the please make your way to a Question Registration meeting.
Point where someone will help you.
To be fair to other shareholders who want to ask a question, you are Votes on all matters except procedural issues will be taken requested not to register more than one question which on a poll.
must be relevant to the business of the meeting otherwise Admission it will not be registered.
If you have a question on an Please bring your AGM admission card proxy card or email individual customer service issue, you will be directed to notication with you, as it will speed your admission, and a Customer Help Desk.
The Chairman cannot deal with keep it until the end of the meeting to vote.
You may also individual service issues.
nd it useful to bring this document with you, in order to At the end of the meeting, you will be asked to vote refer to it at the meeting.
on the resolutions set out in this booklet.
You will be Please note that those attending will not be permitted to invited to complete your AGM admission card proxy card hand out leaets or pamphlets in the venue.
by placing a cross in one of the boxes alongside each resolution and place it in a voting box as you leave the auditorium.
King William St 22 Fenchurch Street Fenchurch Cannon St Tower Hill Cannon St Monument Upper Thames Street Lower Thames Street Thames Old Billingsgate Exchange River Thames River Thames HMS Belfast Duke Street Hill Tooley Street London Bridge Southwark Street If you are not coming to the meeting Webcast The statements by the Chairman, Sir Michael Rake, and Chief Executive, Ian Livingston, will be broadcast live on the internet at www.
com btagm2012 Questions and voting on the business of the meeting will not be broadcast.
If you intend to view the webcast, you should visit this site before the meeting to check that you will be able to view it on your computer, and also whether you need any additional software.
After the AGM you will be able to view a recording of the statements.
If you have any queries about the meeting, please call our Shareholder Helpline on Freefone 0808 100 4141 or on Textphone 0800 169 6907.
Southwark Bridge London Bridge Tower Bridge
