104 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Goodwill 2.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements The recoverable amount of cash generating units has been determined continued based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of implemented from 1 April 2011 had no significant impact in aggregate estimates, including managements expectations of future revenue on the results for the year ended 31 March 2012. growth, operating costs, profit margins and operating cash ows for each cash generating unit.
The carrying values of software, property, plant and equipment are disclosed in notes 13 and 14.
The useful lives applied to the principal The carrying value of goodwill and the key assumptions used in categories of assets are disclosed on pages 105 and 106. performing the annual impairment assessment are disclosed in note 13.
Provisions and contingent liabilities Providing for doubtful debts As disclosed in note 19, the groups provisions principally relate to BT provides services to consumer and business customers, mainly on obligations arising from property rationalisation programmes, credit terms.
We know that certain debts due to us will not be paid restructuring programmes, claims, litigation and regulatory risks.
through the default of a small number of our customers.
Estimates, Under our property rationalisation programmes we have identied a based on our historical experience, are used in determining the level of number of surplus properties.
Although efforts are being made to subdebts that we believe will not be collected.
These estimates include let this space, this is not always possible.
Estimates have been made of such factors as the current state of the economy and particular the cost of vacant possession and of any shortfall arising from any subindustry issues.
lease income being lower than the lease costs.
Any such shortfall is The value of the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed in note 17. recognised as a provision.
In respect of claims, litigation and regulatory risks, the group provides 3. significant accounting policies for anticipated costs where an outow of resources is considered Revenue probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or The prices at which regulated services are charged are often regulated receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of and may be subject to retrospective adjustment by regulators.
Revenue from the rendering of services and Estimates are used in assessing the likely value of the regulatory risk.
sale of equipment is recognised when it is probable that the economic For all risks, the ultimate liability may vary from the amounts provided benets associated with a transaction will ow to the group and the and will be dependent upon the eventual outcome of any settlement.
amount of revenue and associated costs can be measured reliably.
The group exercises judgement in measuring the exposures to Where the group acts as an agent in a transaction, it recognises contingent liabilities see note 29 through assessing the likelihood revenue net of directly attributable costs.
that a potential claim or liability will arise and in quantifying the possible range of financial outcomes.
Services Revenue arising from separable installation and connection services is Current and deferred income tax recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Revenue from the rental The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according to of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised evenly complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws and over the period to which the charges relate.
Revenue from calls is regulations is unclear, we use estimates in determining the liability for recognised at the time the call is made over the groups network.
the tax to be paid on our past profits which we recognise in our Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for access to financial statements.
We believe the estimates, assumptions and broadband and other internet access or voice services, are recognised judgements are reasonable but this can involve complex issues which as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue arising from the may take a number of years to resolve.
The final determination of prior interconnection of voice and data trafc between other year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates reected in the telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit financial statements and may result in the recognition of an additional across the groups network.
tax expense or tax credit in the income statement.
Equipment sales Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in Revenue from the sale of peripheral and other equipment is recognised determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, judgement is when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be to the buyer, which is normally the date the equipment is delivered and recognised with consideration given to the timing and level of future accepted by the customer.
The value of the groups income tax assets and liabilities are disclosed Long-term contractual arrangements on the balance sheet on page 100.
The carrying value of the groups Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements is recognised based deferred tax assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 10. on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to the nature of the contract.
If the performance pattern is other than straight line, revenue is recognised as services are provided, usually on an output or consumption basis.
For xed price contracts, including contracts to design and build software solutions, revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion, as determined by the proportion of costs incurred relative to the estimated total contract costs, or other Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements The group also operates dened contribution pension plans and the 3. significant accounting policies continued income statement expense represents the contributions payable for measures of completion such as the achievement of contract the year.
In the case of time and materials contracts, revenue is recognised as the service is rendered.
Property, plant and equipment Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual Property, plant and equipment are included in the financial statements arrangements are expensed as incurred.
An element of costs incurred at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in the initial set up, transition or transformation phase of the contract is losses.
On disposal of property, plant and equipment, the difference deferred and recorded within non-current assets.
These costs are then between the sale proceeds and the net book value at the date of disposal recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the is recognised in other operating income in the income statement.
remaining contractual term, unless the pattern of service delivery indicates a different prole is appropriate.
These costs are directly Included within the cost for network infrastructure and equipment are attributable to specic contracts, relate to future activity, will generate direct and indirect labour costs, materials and directly attributable future economic benets and are assessed for recoverability on a overheads.
Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment regular basis.
on a straight line basis from the time the asset is available for use, to write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life taking into The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable measurement The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows: of the progress made towards completion.
Unless the financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with reasonable certainty, no Land and buildings attributable profit is recognised.
In such circumstances, revenue is Freehold buildings 40 years recognised equal to the costs incurred to date, to the extent that such Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of lease or revenue is expected to be recoverable.
Recognised revenue and profits 40 years, whichever is the shorter are subject to revisions during the contract if the assumptions regarding the overall contract outcome are changed.
The cumulative Network infrastructure and other equipment impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in the period in which such Transmission equipment: revisions become likely and can be estimated.
Where the actual and Duct 40 years estimated costs to completion exceed the estimated revenue for a Cable 3 to 25 years contract, the full contract life loss is recognised immediately.
Fibre 5 to 20 years Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years Multiple element arrangements Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate Payphones and other network equipment 2 to 20 years elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, revenue Other: is recognised for each element as if it were an individual contract.
The Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years total contract consideration is allocated between the separate elements Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years on the basis of relative fair value and the appropriate revenue recognition criteria are applied to each element as described above.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are recognised Retirement benets prospectively.
The groups obligation in respect of dened benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service to date.
Intangible assets Identiable intangible assets are recognised when the group controls That benefit is discounted to determine its present value using a rate the asset, it is probable that future economic benets attributable to which is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated the asset will ow to the group and the cost of the asset can be reliably corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating the term of measured.
All intangible assets, other than goodwill and indefinite the groups obligations.
The calculation of the obligation is performed lived assets, are amortised over their useful economic life.
The method by a qualied actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The net of amortisation reects the pattern in which the assets are expected to obligation or asset recognised in the balance sheet is the present value be consumed.
If the pattern cannot be determined reliably, the straight of the dened benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets.
The income statement expense is allocated between an operating charge and net finance expense or income.
The operating charge reects the Goodwill increase in the dened benefit obligation resulting from the pension Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the benefit earned by active employees in the current period.
The net fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets including finance expense reects the unwinding of the discount applied to the intangible assets of the acquired subsidiary.
liabilities of the plan, offset by the expected return on the assets of the plan, based on conditions prevailing at the start of the year.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and are presented in the group statement of comprehensive income.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview 106 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements provisions where appropriate on the basis of the amounts expected to 3. significant accounting policies continued be paid to tax authorities.
Computer software Computer software comprises computer software licences purchased Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect of from third parties, and also the cost of internally developed software.
temporary differences between the carrying amount of the groups Computer software licences purchased from third parties are initially assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred tax liabilities are, recorded at cost.
Costs directly associated with the production of where permitted, offset against deferred tax assets within the same internally developed software, where it is probable that the software taxable entity or qualifying local tax group.
Any remaining deferred tax will generate future economic benets, are recognised as intangible asset is recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it assets.
can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which Telecoms licences the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Licence fees paid to governments, which permit telecoms activities to Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to apply in be operated for dened periods, are initially recorded at cost and the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, based on amortised from the time the network is available for use to the end of tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the licence period.
Brands and customer relationships Intangible assets acquired through business combinations are recorded Basis of consolidation at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Assumptions are used in The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of estimating the fair values of acquired intangible assets and include BT Group plc the company and its subsidiaries, and they incorporate managements estimates of revenue and profits to be generated by the its share of the results of associates and joint ventures using the equity acquired businesses.
Estimated useful economic lives Accounting for subsidiaries The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by another entity, known as categories of intangible assets are as follows: the parent.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities generally Computer software 2 to 10 years accompanied by a shareholding of more than one half of the voting Telecommunication licences 2 to 5 years rights.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated Brands, customer relationships and technology 3 to 15 years subsidiaries are identied separately from the groups equity.
Noncontrolling interests consist of the amounts of those interests at the date of the original business combination and non-controlling share of Subscriber acquisition costs changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Subscriber acquisition costs are expensed as incurred, unless they meet the criteria for capitalisation, in which case they are capitalised and The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are amortised over the shorter of the expected customer life or contractual consolidated from and up to the date of change of control.
group transactions including any gains or losses, balances, income or expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Provisions When the group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of the constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any nondiscounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that controlling interests.
reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the Interests in associates and joint ventures risks specic to the liability.
Financial liabilities within provisions are An associate is an entity over which another entity has significant initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised inuence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint cost using the effective interest method.
Onerous lease provisions are venture.
significant inuence is the power to participate in the financial measured at the lower of the cost to full the contract or the cost to and operating policy decisions of an entity but is not control or joint exit it.
A joint venture is an entity that is jointly controlled by two or more entities.
Joint control is the contractually Current and deferred income tax agreed sharing of control over an economic activity, and exists only Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or when the strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where activity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
the companys subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures operate and Investments in associates and joint ventures are initially recognised at generate taxable income.
The group periodically evaluates positions cost.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the group's share of the taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent regulation is subject to interpretation, and the group establishes liabilities of an associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill, which is included within the carrying amount Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements the same periods in which the associated expenditure is recognised.
3. significant accounting policies continued Grants that compensate the group for the cost of an asset are of the investment.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying value of the recognised in the income statement in other operating income on a groups investment in associates and joint ventures includes the straight line basis over the useful life of the asset.
groups share of post acquisition reserves.
The income statement reects the groups share of the results of operations after tax of the associate or joint venture.
Foreign currencies Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the Business combinations transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary method of accounting.
The consideration transferred is measured at fair assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end value, which is the aggregate of the fair values of the assets transferred, exchange rates are recognised in the income statement in the line liabilities incurred or assumed and the equity instruments issued in which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are generally expensed as incurred.
The acquirees identiable assets and On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings are liabilities are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates of Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and measured exchange for the year unless this average is not a reasonable at cost representing the excess of the aggregate of the consideration, approximation of the cumulative effects of the rates prevailing on the the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on acquiree if any over the net of the fair values of the identiable assets retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of equity, and liabilities at the date of acquisition.
In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and liabilities Impairment of non-financial assets denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative translation Intangible assets with nite useful lives and property, plant and difference associated with the undertaking in the translation reserve is equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in charged or credited to the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the income statement.
carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment test is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the Research and development higher of the net present value of the expected future cash ows value in use of the relevant cash generating unit and the fair value less cost Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the period to sell.
Development expenditure, including the cost of internally developed software, is recognised in the income statement in Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are reviewed the period in which it is incurred unless it is probable that economic for impairment at least annually.
Impairment losses are recognised in benets will ow to the group from the asset being developed, the cost of the income statement.
If a cash generating unit is impaired, provision is the asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility can be made to reduce the carrying amount of the related assets to their demonstrated.
Capitalisation ceases when the asset being developed is estimated recoverable amount, normally as a specic item.
Research and development costs include direct and indirect losses are allocated rstly against goodwill, and secondly on a pro rata labour, materials and directly attributable overheads.
basis against intangible and other assets.
Leases Other operating income The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is Other operating income is income generated by the group that arises based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an assessment from activities outside of the provision of communication services and of whether the fullment of the arrangement is dependent on the use equipment sales.
Items reported as other operating income include of a specic asset or assets and whether the arrangement conveys the income from repayment works, proceeds from scrap and cable right to use the asset.
recovery, income generated by our eet operations, income from government grants, profits and losses on the disposal of business Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group holds operations and property, plant and equipment, and income generated substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as from the exploitation of our intellectual property.
Finance lease assets are capitalised at the commencement of the lease term at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The Government grants obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect Government grants are recognised initially as deferred income at their of future periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are subsequently fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
received and the group will comply with the conditions associated with the grant.
Grants that compensate the group for expenses incurred are recognised in the income statement within other operating income in Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview 108 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Available-for-sale financial assets 3. significant accounting policies continued Non-derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are held by either specically designated in this category or not classied in any of the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are charged to the the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
recognised at fair value plus direct transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value, with unrealised Share-based payments gains and losses except for changes in exchange rates for monetary items, interest, dividends and impairment losses, which are recognised The group operates a number of equity settled share-based payment in the income statement recognised in equity until the financial asset arrangements, under which the group receives services from employees is derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously as consideration for equity instruments share options and shares of the recognised in equity is taken to the income statement, in the line that group.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant, but including any market-based performance criteria and Trade and other receivables the impact of non-vesting conditions for example the requirement for Financial assets within trade and other receivables are initially employees to save.
The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the and are subsequently carried at amortised cost, using the effective groups estimate of the options or shares that will eventually vest and interest method, less provisions made for doubtful receivables.
adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Fair Provisions are made specically where there is evidence of a risk of non value is measured using either the Binomial options pricing model or payment, taking into account ageing, previous losses experienced and Monte Carlo simulations, whichever is most appropriate to the award.
Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Any other conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken into Cash and cash equivalents account to determine the fair value of equity instruments granted.
In Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances the case that an award or option does not vest as a result of a failure to with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to meet a non-vesting condition that is within the control of either cash and which are subject to insignicant risk of changes in value and counterparty, this is accounted for as a cancellation.
Cancellations must have an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of be treated as accelerated vesting and all remaining future charges are the consolidated cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as immediately recognised.
As the requirement to save under an dened above net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are employee sharesave arrangement is a non-vesting condition, included within loans and other borrowings, in current liabilities on the employee cancellations must be treated as an accelerated vesting.
Impairment of financial assets Termination benets The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset Termination benets leaver costs are payable when employment is or group of financial assets are impaired.
Where there is objective terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee evidence that an impairment loss has arisen on assets carried at accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The amortised cost, the carrying amount is reduced with the loss being group recognises termination benets when it is demonstrably recognised in the income statement.
The impairment loss is measured committed to the affected employees leaving the group.
as the difference between that assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
Financial instruments Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Trade and other payables A financial asset is classied in this category if it is either acquired Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term held for trading or recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, if so designated by management.
Financial assets held in this category are and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value, with changes method.
in fair value recognised in the income statement in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Any direct Loans and other borrowings transaction costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of amounts received net of transaction costs.
Loans and other borrowings Loans and receivables are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or interest method and, if included in a fair value hedge relationship, are determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market other re-valued to reect the fair value movements on the hedged risk than those for which the group may not recover substantially all of its associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The resultant initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, which are amortisation of fair value movements, on fide-designation of the classied as available-for-sale.
Loans and receivables are initially hedge, are recognised in the income statement.
recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value recognised in the income statement in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 3. significant accounting policies continued and Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce Improvements to IFRS 2010. exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading Accounting standards, interpretations and purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge amendments not yet effective accounting are classied as held for trading and are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value.
The gain or loss on reCertain new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income standards have been published that are mandatory for the groups statement in net finance expense.
Derivative financial instruments are accounting periods beginning on 1 April 2013.
Those which are classied as current assets or current liabilities where they have a considered to be relevant to the groups operations are set out below.
Where derivative financial instruments have a maturity period greater than 12 months, they are Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benets classied within either non-current assets or non-current liabilities.
These amendments are intended to provide a clearer indication of an entitys obligations resulting from the provision of dened benefit Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any pension plans and how those obligations will affect its financial resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge.
To qualify position, financial performance and cash ow.
The amendments for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be prepared at include: inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly effective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested for effectiveness The removal of the options to defer recognition of actuarial gains and losses and for alternative presentation of gains and losses by at inception and in subsequent periods in which the hedge remains in requiring immediate recognition of actuarial gains or losses in full in operation.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging other comprehensive income and the inclusion of service and instrument expires, or is sold, terminated or no longer qualies for finance costs and plan administration costs in the income statement: hedge accounting or the group chooses to end the hedge relationship.
The group designates certain derivatives as either cash ow hedges or The replacement of the expected return on pension plan assets and fair value hedges.
interest expense on pension plan liabilities with a single net interest component calculated on the net dened benefit liability or asset Cash ow hedges using the discount rate used to determine the dened benefit When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the obligation: and variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly Additional disclosures to explain the characteristics of a companys probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the dened benefit plans, the amounts recognised in the financial derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity, in the statements and the risks arising from dened benefit plans.
For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or liabilities, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity IAS 19 requires retrospective adoption and therefore prior periods will and recognised in the same line in the income statement in the same be restated.
The group estimates the impact on 2012 had the period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects the amendments applied would have been to increase operating costs by income statement.
Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of approximately 30m and reduce the net finance income on pensions, a recognised asset or liability is recognised immediately in the same reported as a specic item, by approximately 295m, with income statement line as the hedged item.
Where ineffectiveness arises compensating adjustments in other comprehensive income leaving on highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the line which most equity unchanged.
The group will also be required to make additional appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Fair value hedges Other new standards and amendments When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the The impact of the following new standards, amendments and variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or unrecognised interpretations which are effective from 1 April 2013 is under review, rm commitment, at each reporting date the change in fair value of but the group does not currently expect any of these changes to have a the derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge is recorded in the significant impact on the groups results or financial position.
income statement, together with any changes in fair value of the Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Accounting standards, interpretations and IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements amendments in the year ended 31 March 2012 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements The following amended standards and interpretations were adopted in IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 2012.
They have had no significant impact on the groups results or IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement financial position for the current or prior years but may impact the accounting for future transactions or arrangements.
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income Amendments to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement Improvements to IFRS 2011.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
