104 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Goodwill 2.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements The recoverable amount of cash generating units has been determined continued based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of implemented from 1 April 2011 had no significant impact in aggregate estimates, including managements expectations of future revenue on the results for the year ended 31 March 2012. growth, operating costs, profit margins and operating cash ows for each cash generating unit.
The carrying values of software, property, plant and equipment are disclosed in notes 13 and 14.
The useful lives applied to the principal The carrying value of goodwill and the key assumptions used in categories of assets are disclosed on pages 105 and 106. performing the annual impairment assessment are disclosed in note 13.
Provisions and contingent liabilities Providing for doubtful debts As disclosed in note 19, the groups provisions principally relate to BT provides services to consumer and business customers, mainly on obligations arising from property rationalisation programmes, credit terms.
We know that certain debts due to us will not be paid restructuring programmes, claims, litigation and regulatory risks.
through the default of a small number of our customers.
Estimates, Under our property rationalisation programmes we have identied a based on our historical experience, are used in determining the level of number of surplus properties.
Although efforts are being made to subdebts that we believe will not be collected.
These estimates include let this space, this is not always possible.
Estimates have been made of such factors as the current state of the economy and particular the cost of vacant possession and of any shortfall arising from any subindustry issues.
lease income being lower than the lease costs.
Any such shortfall is The value of the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed in note 17. recognised as a provision.
In respect of claims, litigation and regulatory risks, the group provides 3. significant accounting policies for anticipated costs where an outow of resources is considered Revenue probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or The prices at which regulated services are charged are often regulated receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of and may be subject to retrospective adjustment by regulators.
Revenue from the rendering of services and Estimates are used in assessing the likely value of the regulatory risk.
sale of equipment is recognised when it is probable that the economic For all risks, the ultimate liability may vary from the amounts provided benets associated with a transaction will ow to the group and the and will be dependent upon the eventual outcome of any settlement.
amount of revenue and associated costs can be measured reliably.
The group exercises judgement in measuring the exposures to Where the group acts as an agent in a transaction, it recognises contingent liabilities see note 29 through assessing the likelihood revenue net of directly attributable costs.
that a potential claim or liability will arise and in quantifying the possible range of financial outcomes.
Services Revenue arising from separable installation and connection services is Current and deferred income tax recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Revenue from the rental The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according to of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised evenly complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws and over the period to which the charges relate.
Revenue from calls is regulations is unclear, we use estimates in determining the liability for recognised at the time the call is made over the groups network.
the tax to be paid on our past profits which we recognise in our Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for access to financial statements.
We believe the estimates, assumptions and broadband and other internet access or voice services, are recognised judgements are reasonable but this can involve complex issues which as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue arising from the may take a number of years to resolve.
The final determination of prior interconnection of voice and data trafc between other year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates reected in the telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit financial statements and may result in the recognition of an additional across the groups network.
tax expense or tax credit in the income statement.
Equipment sales Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in Revenue from the sale of peripheral and other equipment is recognised determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, judgement is when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be to the buyer, which is normally the date the equipment is delivered and recognised with consideration given to the timing and level of future accepted by the customer.
The value of the groups income tax assets and liabilities are disclosed Long-term contractual arrangements on the balance sheet on page 100.
The carrying value of the groups Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements is recognised based deferred tax assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 10. on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to the nature of the contract.
If the performance pattern is other than straight line, revenue is recognised as services are provided, usually on an output or consumption basis.
For xed price contracts, including contracts to design and build software solutions, revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion, as determined by the proportion of costs incurred relative to the estimated total contract costs, or other Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
