BT Group plc Summary financial statement & notice of meeting 2012 15 Auditors statement Independent auditors statement to the membersof BT Group plc We have examined the Summary financial statement body in accordance with section 428 of the Companies which comprises the Summary group income statement, Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving Summary group cash ow statement and Summary group this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other balance sheet as set out on pages 8 to 9 and the directors purpose or to any other person to whom this statement report, including the Summary report on directors is shown or into whose hands it may come save where remuneration as set out on pages 10 to 11. expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Respective responsibilities of directors and Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin auditors 2008 3 issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our The directors are responsible for preparing the BT Group reports on the Companys full annual financial statements plc Summary financial statement & notice of meeting in describe the basis of our audit opinions on those financial accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
statements, the Report of the directors and the Report on Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the directors remuneration.
consistency of the Summary financial statement within the BT Group plc Summary financial statement & notice Opinion of meeting with the full annual financial statements, In our opinion the Summary financial statement is the Report of the directors and the Report on directors consistent with the full annual financial statements, remuneration and its compliance with the relevant the Report of the directors and the Report on directors requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 remuneration of BT Group plc for the year ended and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the 31 March 2012 and complies with the applicable other information contained in the BT Group plc Summary requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006, financial statement & notice of meeting and consider the and the regulations made thereunder.
implications for our statement if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary financial statement.
The other information comprises only the Financial summary, the Chairmans  LLP, Chartered Accountants message and the other items listed on the contents and Statutory Auditors, London, United Kingdom page.
This statement, including the opinion, has been 9 May 2012 prepared for and only for the companys members as a Important note This Summary financial statement is only a summary of the information contained in BTs consolidated financial statements, Report of the directors and Report on directors remuneration as set out in the BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Annual Report.
It contains additional information derived from the Report of the directors in the Annual Report, and does not contain the full text of that Report of the directors.
It does not contain sufficient information to allow for as full an understanding of the results of the group and state of affairs of the Company or the group and of their policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration as would be provided by the Annual Report.
A copy of the Annual Report can be viewed online at www.
com annualreport Shareholders may obtain a copy of the full Annual Report for 2012 and future years, free of charge, by calling our Shareholder Helpline on Freefone 0808 100 4141 if overseas on 44 121 415 7178.
The auditors report on the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2012 was unqualied and does not contain any statement under section 498 2 accounting records or returns inadequate or accounts or directors remuneration report not agreeing with records or returns or section 498 3 failure to obtain necessary information and explanations of the Companies Act 2006 and the auditors statement in that Annual Report under section 496 whether directors report is consistent with accounts of that Act was unqualied.
Forward-looking statements caution advised Please see the cautionary statement about forward-looking statements on page 175 in the Annual Report, available as described in the previousnote.
Takeover Directive disclosure As a result of the EU Takeover Directive, we have to make additional disclosures in the Annual Report see page 91.
There we set out where this information can be found elsewhere in the Annual Report eg the structure of BTs share capital, including rights and obligations attaching to the shares or provide details on the matters not covered elsewhere.
