Additional information Information for shareholders Limitations affecting security holders There are no government laws, decrees, regulations, or other UK legislation which have a material effect on the import or export of capital, including the availability of cash and cash equivalents for use by the company except as otherwise described in Taxation US Holders.
There are no limitations under UK law restricting the right of non-residents to hold or to vote shares in the company.
Documents on display All reports and other information that BT les with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC may be inspected at the SECs public reference facilities at Room 1580, 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC, 20549, US.
These reports may be accessed via the SECs website at www.
gov Publications BT produces a series of reports on the companys financial, compliance, and social and environmental performance.
Most of these reports as well as the EAB Annual Report on BTs compliance with the Undertakings are available to shareholders on request and can be accessed at www.
More detailed disclosures on BTs implementation of social, ethical and environmental policies and procedures are available online through our independently veried sustainability report at www.
com betterfuture Document Publication date Summary financial statement & notice of meeting May Annual Report & Form 20-F May Better future: our annual sustainability report May EAB Annual Report May Quarterly results releases July, November, February and May Current Cost Financial Statements July Statement of Business Practice The Way We Work For printed copies, when available, contact the Shareholder Helpline on Freefone 0808 100 4141 or, alternatively, contact our 188 Registrars in the UK, at the address on page 188.
Electronic communication Shareholders can choose to receive their shareholder documents electronically rather than by post.
Shareholders may elect to receive documents in this way by going to www.
com signup and following the online instructions, 188 or by calling the Shareholder Helpline see page 188.
Shareholder communication BT is committed to communicating openly with each of its stakeholder audiences in the manner most appropriate to their requirements.
All investors can visit our website at www.
com investorcentre for more information about BT.
There are direct links from this page to sites providing information particularly tailored for shareholders, institutional investors, financial analysts, industry analysts and journalists.
An online version of this document is available at www.
com annualreport Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
