Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Long-term customer contracts 1.
Basis of preparation Long-term customer contracts can extend over a number of financial Preparation of the financial statements years.
During the contractual period recognition of costs and profits These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS contract.
If, at any time, these estimates indicate that any contract will Regulation and International Accounting Standards IAS and be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the contract is recognised International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related immediately.
If these estimates indicate that any contract will be less interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
The consolidated profitable than previously forecast, contract assets may have to be financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the written down to the extent they are no longer considered to be fully International Accounting Standards Board.
The group performs ongoing profitability reviews of its The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical contracts in order to determine whether the latest estimates are cost basis, except for certain financial and equity instruments that have appropriate.
Key factors reviewed include: been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are Transaction volumes or other inputs affecting future revenues which presented in Sterling, the presentation currency of the group.
can vary depending on customer requirements, plans and market position and other factors such as general economic conditions: Presentation of specic items Our ability to achieve key contract milestones connected with the The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately transition, development, transformation and deployment phases for identify trading results before specic items.
Specic items are those customer contracts: that in managements judgment need to be disclosed by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
In determining whether an event or The status of commercial relations with customers and the transaction is specic, management considers quantitative as well as implication for future revenue and cost projections: and qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of Our estimates of future staff and third party costs and the degree to occurrence.
This is consistent with the way that financial performance which cost savings and efficiencies are deliverable.
is measured by management and reported to the Board and the Operating Committee and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of The carrying value of assets comprising the costs of the initial set up, the trading results of the group.
The directors believe that presentation transition or transformation phase of long-term networked IT services of the groups results in this way is relevant to an understanding of the contracts are disclosed in note 17. groups financial performance as specic items are identied by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
Furthermore, the group considers a Pension obligations columnar presentation to be appropriate, as it improves the clarity of BT has a commitment, mainly through the BTPS, to pay pension the presentation and is consistent with the way that financial benets to approximately 325,000 people over a period of more than performance is measured by management and reported to the Board 80 years.
The cost of these benets and the present value of our and the Operating Committee.
Specic items may not be comparable pension liabilities depend on such factors as the life expectancy of the to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
members, the salary progression of our current employees, the return that the pension fund assets will generate in the time before they are Items which have been considered to be specic items by virtue of their used to fund the pension payments, price ination and the discount size, nature or incidence include disposals of businesses and rate used to calculate the net present value of the future pension investments, regulatory settlements, business restructuring payments.
We use estimates for all of these factors in determining the programmes, asset impairment charges, property rationalisation pension costs and liabilities incorporated in our financial statements.
programmes, net interest on pensions and the settlement of multiple The assumptions reect historical experience and our judgement tax years in a single payment.
In 2009 BT Global Services contract and regarding future expectations.
financial review charges were disclosed as a specic item by virtue of their size and nature.
The impact of subsequent changes to the The value of the net pension obligation at 31 March 2012 and the key contract and financial review charges from revisions in estimates and financial assumptions used to measure the obligation are disclosed in assumptions are included within trading results before specic items, note 20. and are separately disclosed if considered significant.
Useful lives for property, plant and equipment and software Specic items for the current and prior years are disclosed in note 9.
The plant and equipment in our networks is long lived with cables and switching equipment operating for over 10 years and underground 2.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements ducts being used for decades.
We also develop software for use in IT The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires systems and platforms that supports the products and services the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also requires provided to our customers and that is also used within the group.
The management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the annual depreciation and amortisation charge is sensitive to the groups accounting policies.
We continually evaluate our estimates, estimated service lives allocated to each type of asset.
Asset lives are assumptions and judgements based on available information and assessed annually and changed when necessary to reect current experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in financial reporting, thinking on their remaining lives in light of technological change, actual results could differ from these estimates.
Management has network investment plans including the groups bre roll-out discussed its critical accounting estimates and associated disclosures programme, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition with the Audit & Risk Committee.
The areas involving a higher degree of the assets concerned.
Changes to the service lives of assets of judgement or complexity are described below.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
