92 Governance General information The disclosures which are not covered elsewhere in this Report include political parties and or political organisations as dened in the 2006 the following: Act.
During 2012, the companys wholly-owned subsidiary, British Telecommunications plc, made payments totalling 3,550 2011: BT has two employee share ownership trusts which hold BT shares for 11,935.
No loans were made to any political party by any company in the purpose of satisfying awards made under the various employee the BT Group.
The trustee of the BT Group Employee Share Investment Plan may invite participants on whose behalf it holds shares to direct Business policies it how to vote in respect of those shares, and if there is an offer for the shares or other transaction which would lead to a change of Our Ethical Code: The Way We Work TWWW has been in place for control of BT, participants may direct it to accept the offer or agree to over ten years and we are in the process of refreshing the content.
In respect of shares held in the BT Group Employee states our business principles and it applies to all employees, agents, Share Ownership Trust, the trustee abstains from voting those shares, contractors and others when representing BT.
The code is available in and if there is an offer for the shares the trustee is not obliged to 11languages and we ask all our employees to confirm their support and accept or reject the offer but will have regard to the interests of the compliance with the policy.
participants, may consult them to obtain their views on the offer and It is supported by a number of ethical policies, including Antimay otherwise take the action with respect to the offer it thinks fair Corruption and Bribery, Gifts and Hospitality, Charitable Donations we are not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may and Sponsorship and Agents: as well as guidance on ethical issues.
All result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights employees and contractors are required to sign up to TWWW and our Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy.
Our suppliers are also expected to no person holds securities carrying special rights with regard to comply with the principles set out in TWWW and our ethical policies.
control of the company We have a number of key performance indicators that we use to track proxy appointment and voting instructions must be received by our training and conrmations of compliance, and our performance the registrars not less than 48 hours before a general meeting see against our ethical policies.
We have carried out a culture survey of alsopage 182 our employees and we have followed this up with interviews of senior the amendment of BTs Articles of Association requires shareholder managers to track the ethical culture of our business.
approval in accordance with legislation in force from time to time We operate a Gifts and Hospitality recording system for our employees the powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and to register and get approval of all gifts and business entertainment the Articles of Association.
The directors are authorised to issue and given and received.
We are committed to high ethical standards and allot shares, and to undertake purchases of BT shares subject to legal compliance in all aspects of our business.
We provide training shareholder approval at the AGM on ethical issues, health and safety and other compliance topics.
A dedicated ethics helpdesk is available to employees who have questions BT Group plc is not party to any significant agreements that take or would like guidance about our ethical policies.
We also provide a effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following condential helpline so people can report any ethical concerns.
atakeover we do not have any agreements with directors providing for Better Future: BTs 2012 Sustainability report is available compensation for loss of ofce or employment that occurs because on our website at www.
There is similarly no such provision in standard contracts for employees.
Financial instruments Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the group and exposure to interest risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign exchange are given in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
Political donations Our continuing policy is that no company in the group will make contributions in cash or kind to any political party, whether by gift or loan.
However, the denition of political donations used in the 2006 Act is very much broader than the sense in which these words are ordinarily used.
It may cover activities such as making Members of Parliament and others in the political world aware of key industry issues and matters affecting the company, which make an important contribution to their understanding of BT.
The authority we are requesting at the AGM is not designed to change the above policy.
It will, however, ensure that BT continues to act within the provisions of the 2006 Act requiring companies to obtain shareholder authority before they can make donations to EU Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
