160 Financial statements Financial statements of BT Group plc Cash BT Group plc accounting policies Cash includes cash in hand and bank deposits repayable on demand.
Accounting basis As used in these financial statements and associated notes, the term Share-based payments company refers to BT Group plc.
These separate financial statements The company does not incur a charge for share-based payments.
of the company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
However, the issuance by the company of share options and awards to The separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance employees of its subsidiaries represents additional capital contributions with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
An addition to the companys investment in The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and subsidiaries is recorded with a corresponding increase in equity under the historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation of shareholders funds.
The additional capital contribution is determined certain financial instruments at fair value.
based on the fair value of options and awards at the date of grant and is recognised over the vesting period.
As permitted by Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the companys profit and loss account has not been presented.
Other information The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended Dividends 31 March 2012 contain a consolidated statement of cash ows.
The Board recommends that a final dividend in respect of Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the exemption in the year ended 31 March 2012 of 5.7p will be paid to shareholders on FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements, not to present its own cash ow 3 September 2012, taking the full year proposed dividend in respect of statement.
This dividend is subject to shareholder The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the approval at the Annual General Meeting and therefore the liability of year ended 31 March 2012 contain related party disclosures.
approximately 453m 2011: 388m has not been included in these Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the exemption in financial statements.
FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures, not to disclose transactions with other members of the BT Group.
Employees The executive directors and the Chairman of BT Group plc were the only The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended employees of the company during 2012.
The costs relating to 31 March 2012 contain financial instrument disclosures which comply qualifying services provided to the companys principal subsidiary, with FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Consequently, the British Telecommunications plc, are recharged to that company.
company is exempted from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29 in respect of its financial instruments.
Audit fees The audit fee in respect of the parent company was 41,000 2011: Investments in subsidiary undertakings 41,000.
Fees payable to  LLP for Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost and reviewed non-audit services to the company are not required to be disclosed as for impairment if there are indicators that the carrying value may not they are included within note 8 to the consolidated financial be recoverable.
statements of BT Group plc.
Taxation Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all timing differences which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
The deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Dividends Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the year in which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid: final dividends when authorised in general meetings by shareholders.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Repurchased shares of the company are recorded in the balance sheet as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from shareholders equity at cost.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
