Governance Shareholders and Annual General Meeting about BTs activities.
We also give shareholders the opportunity to vote Shareholders and Annual General on every substantially different issue by proposing a separate resolution for each issue.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as Meeting votes withheld, will be counted before the AGM and the results will be made available at the meeting.
As at the 2011 AGM, votes on all matters Relations with shareholders at the 2012 AGM, except procedural issues, will be taken on a poll.
Every vote cast, whether in person or by proxy at the meeting will be counted.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, as well as other The outcome of voting on the resolutions will be posted on our website as senior executives, hold meetings with BTs institutional shareholders soon as possible after the meeting.
It is our policy for all directors to attend and prospective shareholders to discuss BTs strategy and financial the AGM if at all possible.
While, because of ill health or other pressing performance.
The Chairman met with major shareholders during the year.
reasons, this may not always be possible, in normal circumstances this All non-executive directors, including the Senior Independent Director, means that the Chairs of the Audit & Risk, Nominating & Governance and have an invitation to attend investor meetings if they wish.
During the Remuneration Committees are at the AGM and are available to answer course of the year Patricia Hewitt, as Senior Independent Director and relevant questions.
All the directors attended the 2011AGM.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee had a dialogue with and met with BTs top institutional shareholders and bodies representing institutional The resolutions to be proposed at the 2012 AGM at Old Billingsgate, investors, to discuss remuneration issues and associated governance, and London on 11 July, together with explanatory notes, appear in the separate to obtain their feedback on BT's proposed remuneration policy.
Contact Summary financial statement & notice of meeting 2012 which is sent to with institutional shareholders and with financial analysts, brokers and all shareholders who have requested a copy.
Copies of this Annual Report the media is controlled by written guidelines to ensure the protection of are sent only to shareholders who have requested or request a copy.
All inside information that has not already been made generally available to shareholders are notied of the publication of these documents which are the market.
sent out in the most cost-effective way.
We aim to give as much notice During the year we randomly surveyed 9,000 private shareholders to of our AGM as possible and at least 21 clear days notice, as required by help us improve our engagement with them.
In response to the survey's our Articles of Association.
In practice, these documents are being sent to findings we have further simplied and reduced the use of jargon in our shareholders more than 20 working days before the AGM.
Resolutions to re-appoint  LLP as BTs auditors and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration will also be proposed The directors are provided with regular reports and other written at the AGM.
briengs on shareholders and analysts views and are kept informed by the Company Secretary about the holdings of the principal shareholders.
Established procedures ensure the timely release of inside information The presentation made by the Chairman and the Chief and the publication of financial results and regulatory financial Executive will be broadcast live on our website at statements.
All external announcements are also reviewed for accuracy www.
com btagm2012 and will be available after the AGM and compliance requirements by a committee of senior executives, the Disclosure Committee, which is chaired by the Company Secretary.
Authority to purchase shares The authority given at last years AGM of the company held on 13 July Substantial shareholdings 2011 for BT to purchase in the market 776m of its shares, representing 10% of the issued share capital, expires on 11 July 2012.
Shareholders At 3 May 2012 BT had received notication, under the Disclosure & will be asked to give a similar authority at the AGM.
Transparency Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority, in respect of the following holding of shares representing the percentage holding During 2012, 12.7m treasury shares were transferred to meet BTs of BTs total voting rights as shown: obligations under our employee share plans.
At 9May 2012 a total of 363m shares were retained as treasury shares.
All the shares were Shares % of total voting rights purchased in an on-market programme of buying back BT shares from Invesco Limited 771,361,667 9.91 November 2003 to 31 July 2008.
In addition to the above, Blackrock Inc holds 392,489,006 shares By order of the Board representing 5.04% of total voting rights and Legal & General Investment hold 302,869,450 shares representing 3.89% of total voting rights.
No changes in these holdings have been notied to BT in 2012.
Annual General Meeting Andrew Parker Company Secretary Resolutions 9 May 2012 Shareholders will be asked to vote on the Annual Report at the AGM.
Shareholders will also again be asked to vote separately on the Report on Directors Remuneration.
It is part of our policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the company and to give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
