Governance How we govern the company Operating Committee The key management Committee is the Operating Committee, which meets weekly and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
The members of the Committee are set out below.
Members Ian Livingston Tony Chanmugam Clare Chapman Jeff Kelly Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group People Director CEO, BT Global Services Appointed Chief Executive on Appointed Group Finance Appointed Group People Director Appointed CEO, BT Global Services 1June 2008.
Ian was formerly Director on 1 December 2008. on 1 October 2011.
Jeff previously CEO, BT Retail and prior to that, Tony was formerly CFO, BT BT, Clare was director general of spent around 25 years with Group Finance Director.
Retail and Managing Director, workforce for the NHS and Social Electronic Data Systems in the US.
Care at the Department of Health.
Clare was also previously group personnel director at Tesco.
Roel Louwhoff Gavin Patterson Clive Selley Nigel Stagg CEO, BT Operate CEO, BT Retail CEO, BT Innovate & Design CEO, BT Wholesale Appointed CEO, BT Operate in Appointed CEO, BT Retail on Appointed CEO, BT Innovate Appointed CEO, BT Wholesale July 2007.
Gavin was formerly & Design on 1 April 2010. on 1September 2011.
Nigel was President of Customer Service Managing Director, Consumer Clive was formerly President of formerly BT Business Managing for BT Global Services which Division, BT Retail.
Portfolio & Service Design and Director, BT Retail.
became the Customer Service and prior to that, Managing Director, NetworkOperations.
Invitee The Operating Committee has collective responsibility for running the groups business.
To do that, it develops BTs strategy and budget for Board approval, recommends to the Board capital expenditure and investment budgets, monitors financial, operational and customer quality of service performance, reviews the Group Risk Register and its individual risks, allocates resources across BT within plans agreed by the Board, plans and delivers major programmes, and reviews the senior talent base and succession plans.
The Company Secretary attends all meetings.
Olivia Gareld Within BTs corporate governance framework, approved by CEO, Openreach the Board, the Operating Committee can approve, up to limits Appointed CEO, Openreach on 1April 2011. beyond which Board approval is required, capital expenditure, Olivia was formerly Group Director, Strategy, and disposals of xed assets, investments and divestments.
It Policy and Portfolio and prior to that held roles in can, and has, delegated some of these approvals, up to its own BT Global Services.
The CEO of Openreach cannot limits, to sub-committees such as the Design Council and to be a member of the Operating Committee under seniorexecutives.
the provisions of the Undertakings.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
