Contact information Useful links Telephone The Annual Report for 2012, together with this Summary financial statement & notice of meeting, which contains Shareholder helpline other information required by section 311A of the for general enquiries call: Companies Act 2006, is available on our website at Freefone: 0808 100 4141 www.
com annualreport You can request a printed copy of the Annual Report for 2012 and future years, free 44 121 415 7178 of charge, by getting in touch with us.
You may also nd Textphone: 0800 169 6907 the following links useful: 44 121 415 7028 Sign up as an e-shareholder calls from outside the UK www.
com signup Email Shareholder offers www.
com sharesandperformance Information on how to manage your shareholdings can be found at https: help.
co. uk shareholderoffers If your question is not answered by the information BTs Sustainability report provided, you can send your enquiry via secure www.
com betterfuture mail from these pages.
Information for shareholders Post www.
com sharesandperformance shareholders Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BT news and media West Sussex, BN99 6DA, United Kingdom www.
com news please include a daytime telephone number About BT www.
com thegroup Data Protection Statement The Company references to Company include BT Group plc and British Telecommunications plc collects and processes information provided by you, or on your behalf, which relates to you as an individual shareholder or as a participant in EasyShare or other scheme or plan.
This information which is your personal data includes your name and contact details, the votes you cast and the Reference Number attributed to you by the Company.
The Company may process your personal data for the purposes of compiling and updating the Company records, fulling its legal obligations, processing the shareholder rights you exercise, and contacting you with shareholder information and related communications.
The Company may engage a third party to do this for example our Registrars, Equiniti who may process your personal data on the Companys behalf.
