16 Notice of meeting The Notice provides details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting AGM on Wednesday 11 July 2012.
Why the AGM is important Your role We want you to know what is happening in your Company.
The AGM is your opportunity to hear straight from the Chairman and Chief Executive about how your Company is doing.
You can come in person or view the webcast at www.
com btagm2012 Inside this Notice Resolutions Your vote is important to us.
We are proposing 20 resolutions at the AGM.
We have provided further details about these resolutions on pages 17 to 20 so you can make an informed decision when voting.
What to do Voting Your AGM admission card proxy card contains details of what you need to do in order to vote.
If you are not going to be at the AGM, and you want to vote on any of the resolutions, please complete and return the enclosed AGM admission card proxy card to our Registrars, Equiniti.
Alternatively, you can also use this card to appoint another person a proxy to attend the meeting on your behalf.
Your proxy can speak and vote at the meeting.
BT Group plc Summary financial statement & notice of meeting 2012 17 Notice of meeting The 2012 Annual General Meeting AGM of BT Group plc will be held at Old Billingsgate, 1 Old Billingsgate Walk, London EC3R 6DX at 11am on Wednesday 11 July 2012 to consider the following: Ordinary business Resolution 4 Resolutions 1 to 15 will be proposed as ordinary That Sir Michael Rake be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 5 Resolution 1: Report and accounts That Ian Livingston be re-elected as a director.
That the accounts and reports of the directors and the Resolution 6 auditors for the year ended 31 March 2012 be received.
That Tony Chanmugam be re-elected as a director.
By law, the directors have to present these accounts and Resolution 7 reports contained in the Companys Annual Report to the That Gavin Patterson be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 8 Resolution 2: Remuneration report That Tony Ball be re-elected as a director.
That the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2012 be approved.
Resolution 9 That the Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt be re-elected as a The directors have to ask shareholders to vote on the director.
It is summarised on pages 10 and 11 of this document.
You can nd it in full, Resolution 10 in the Annual Report, at www.
com annualreport That Phil Hodkinson be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 3: Final dividend Resolution 11 That the final dividend of 5.7 pence per share That Nick Rose be re-elected as a director.
recommended by the directors be declared to be payable on 3September 2012 to holders of ordinary shares Resolution 12 registered at the close of business on 10 August 2012.
That Jasmine Whitbread be re-elected as a director.
The final dividend declared cannot exceed the amount Resolution 13 recommended by the directors.
That Karen Richardson be elected as a director.
Resolutions 4 to 13: Directors Resolution 14: Auditors re-appointment The Companys articles of association require any director That  LLP be re-appointed appointed by the Board to retire at the AGM following auditors of the Company, to hold ofce until the end appointment.
This applies to Karen Richardson who joined of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid the Board on 1November 2011.
In accordance with before the Company.
the UK Corporate Governance Code all other directors Resolution 15: Auditors remuneration will stand for re-election this year, except Eric Daniels That the directors be authorised to decide the auditors who steps down from the Board on 13 June 2012.
biographies of the directors are set out on pages 12 to 14.
This resolution follows standard practice.
18 Notice of meeting continued Special business b the directors have power to allot equity securities The following resolution will be proposed as an ordinary within the meaning of section 560 1 of the 2006 resolution.
Act entirely paid for in cash under the authority given by paragraph b of Resolution 16 in connection with Resolution 16: Authority to allot shares a rights issue as if section 561 1 of the 2006 Act did That: not apply to such allotment.
This power expires at a the authority and power conferred on the directors the end of the next AGM but the Company can make in relation to the Section 551 Amount by Article 71 offers and enter into agreements which would, or of the Companys articles of association Articles be might, need equity securities to be allotted after that renewed until the end of the next Annual General expiry.
Meeting AGM and for that period the Section 551 In this resolution words dened in Resolution 16 have the Amount will be 128 million: and same meaning, and references to an allotment of equity b the directors be authorised generally and without securities include a sale of treasury shares.
conditions under Section 551 of the Companies Act This resolution renews the powers given to the Board 2006 2006 Act to allot shares and to grant rights to allot equity securities without needing to offer these to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares shares to existing shareholders first: for cash up to an in the Company up to a further nominal amount of amount representing approximately 5% of the issued 128million in connection with a rights issue.
This share capital including treasury shares at the date of authority expires at the end of the next AGM.
The this Notice, approximately 407 million shares: and in Board can make offers and enter into agreements connection with a rights issue.
which would, or might, need shares to be allotted and There are no current plans to undertake a rights issue or rights to be granted after that expiry.
to allot shares except in connection with the Companys These authorities supersede any previous ones under employee share plans.
Resolutions 16 and 17 ensure section 551 of the 2006 Act and rights issue is as that the directors retain the exibility to act in the best dened in Article 71 of the Companys Articles.
interests of shareholders, when opportunities occur, by The Companys Articles and paragraph a above give a allotting shares.
Over a three year rolling period, except general authority to the Board to allot new shares up to in a rights issue or pre-emptive offer, this disapplication a nominal value of 128 million, which is equivalent to will not exceed 7.5% of issued share capital.
approximately 33% of the Companys issued share capital Resolution 18: Authority to purchase ownshares excluding treasury shares at the date of this Notice.
That the Company has general and unconditional Paragraph b gives an authority to the directors to allot authority to make market purchases as dened in section new shares only in connection with a rights issue up to a 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of shares of 5p each further face value of 128 million, which is equivalent to in the Company, subject to the following conditions: approximately 33% of the Companys issued share capital a the maximum number of shares which may be excluding treasury shares at the date of this Notice.
purchased is 778 million shares: These authorities will lapse at the end of the AGM b the minimum price excluding expenses which may in 2013.
See the notes to Resolution 18 for more be paid for each share is 5p: information on treasury shares.
c the maximum price excluding expenses which the The following three resolutions will be proposed as special Company may pay for each share cannot be more than resolutions.
the higher of: Resolution 17: Authority to allot shares for cash i 105% of the average market value of a share in That subject to the passing of Resolution 16: the Company for the five business days prior to a the authority and power conferred on the directors by the day the purchase is made: and Article 71 of the Companys Articles be renewed for ii the value of a share in the Company calculated the period referred to in Resolution 16 and for that onthe basis of the higher of the price quoted period the Section 561 Amount will be 20 million: for: a the last independent trade of: or b the and highest current independent bid for any number BT Group plc Summary financial statement & notice of meeting 2012 19 of shares in the Company on the trading venues Resolution 19: Authority to call a general meeting where the purchase is carried out: and on 14days notice That the Company may call a general meeting but not an d this authority expires at the end of the next AGM, AGM on at least 14 clear days notice.
except in relation to the purchase of shares, the contract for which was concluded before the expiry of The Companies Act 2006 requires that general meetings this authority and which might be executed wholly or are held on 21 days notice unless shareholders have partly after that expiry.
This resolution means we would give you two weeks or more notice This resolution renews the Companys authority to buy its of a general meeting.
It will be effective until our next own shares on similar terms to previous years authorities.
AGM, when we may propose a similar one.
It is expected It would be limited to 778 million ordinary shares, that the authority would be used only in exceptional representing 10% of the issued share capital excluding circumstances.
treasury shares at the date of this Notice.
The directors would exercise this authority only after considering The following resolution will be proposed as an ordinary the effects on earnings per share and the benets for resolution.
The purchase of shares by the Resolution 20: Authority for political donations Company under this authority would be a purchase in That British Telecommunications plc, a wholly-owned the market.
It should not be confused with any share subsidiary of the Company, be authorised to make dealing facilities that may be offered to shareholders by political donations to political: the Company.
a parties and or independent election candidates not Shares purchased by the Company out of distributable exceeding 75,000 in total: and profits could be held as treasury shares, which could then be cancelled, sold for cash or used to meet the Companys b organisations other than political parties not obligations under its employee share plans.
exceeding 25,000 in total during the period beginning with the date of the 2012 AGM and ending At 9 May 2012, 277 million treasury shares had been at the end of the day on which the 2013 AGM is held.
transferred to meet the Companys obligations under its employee share plans and at that date, the Company The terms political donation, political parties, still held 363 million treasury shares which is equal to independent election candidates, and political approximately 5% of the issued share capital excluding organisation have the meanings given by sections 363 to treasury shares at that date.
The Companys current intention is to hold any shares The Companys continuing policy is that no company purchased as treasury shares but it retains the exibility in the group will make contributions in cash or kind to cancel them or sell them for cash if it considers this to including loans to any political party.
However, the be in the best interests of the Company.
The authority will denition of political donations used in the 2006 Act lapse at the end of the AGM in 2013. is very much broader than the sense in which these words are ordinarily used.
It may cover activities such as At 9 May 2012, there were options outstanding over making MPs and others in the political world aware of key 585million shares of which options over 561 million industry issues and matters affecting the Company which shares were in respect of options granted under the make an important contribution to their understanding savings related share option plans, representing 7.5% of of BT.
The authority we are requesting in this resolution is the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury not designed to change the above policy, but will ensure shares.
If the authority given by this resolution were that the group continues to act within the provisions of to be fully used, these would represent 8.3% of the the 2006 Act.
Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
There are no warrants outstanding.
During the 2012 financial year, the Companys whollyowned subsidiary, British Telecommunications plc, spent 3,550 on activities related to last years resolution.
20 Notice of meeting continued Register of Members and proxies Shareholders meeting the threshold and time limit set out in sections 338 and 338A can make the Company give Only shareholders on the BT Group Register of Members at 6pmon 9 July 2012 are entitled to attend and vote its members notice of a resolution and or include in the business to be dealt with at the AGM any matter which atthe AGM.
may be properly included in that business.
If you are unable to attend and vote, you can appoint another person as your proxy to exercise all or any of your Shares rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
You may The total number of issued and fully paid ordinary appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, shares of 5p each at 9 May 2012, the latest practicable provided you appoint each proxy to exercise the rights business date before the publication of this document, attached to a different share or shares held by you.
A was 8,151,227,029, carrying one vote each.
The total proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
On a number of voting rights in the Company at that date was poll, the number of shares held by you as a shareholder at 7,787,436,128 excluding treasury shares.
6pm on 9 July 2012 will decide the number of votes that Documents you may cast.
Changes after that time will not be taken Copies of all service contracts and contracts of into account.
appointment between the directors and the Company An AGM admission card proxy card accompanies this are available for inspection during business hours at the Notice of meeting.
registered ofce of the Company on any weekday but not on public holidays and will also be available for Nominated persons inspection at the AGM venue from 10am on the day of Unless you are a shareholder you do not have a right to the meeting until the end of the meeting.
appoint any proxies under the procedures set out above, or referred to under the heading AGM information.
Your directors believe that the proposals set out in Resolutions 1 to 20 are in the best interests of You may nevertheless have a right under an agreement shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommend between you and a shareholder of the Company who that you vote in favour of all these resolutions.
They has nominated you Relevant Shareholder to have intend to do so in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
information rights, to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the meeting: or to give By order of the Board instructions to the Relevant Shareholder on the exercise Andrew Parker of voting rights.
Secretary If you are uncertain about your rights or about your 81 Newgate Street investment you should contact the person or organisation London EC1A 7AJ that administers that investment.
9 May 2012 Shareholders rights Shareholders at the AGM have the right to ask questions relating to its business.
The Chairman need not answer if, for example, it would involve disclosing condential information or is undesirable in BTs interests or the good order of the AGM.
If enough shareholders act together to make requests under sections 527 and 528 of the Companies Act 2006 all references are to this Act, BT may have to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of its accounts or any circumstance connected with its auditor ceasing to hold ofce.
BT cannot make shareholders, requesting this, pay its expenses in complying with these sections.
It has to forward the statement to its auditor before it publishes the statement.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any such statement.
