Financial statements Subsidiary undertakings and associate a b The tables below give brief details of the groups principal operating subsidiaries and associate at 31 March 2012.
All subsidiaries are unlisted and held through an intermediate holding company, unless otherwise stated.
No subsidiaries are excluded from the group consolidation.
Group interest Country c d Subsidiary undertakings Activity in allotted capital of operation British Telecommunications plc Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary UK d, e BT Americas Inc Communications related services, systems integration and 100% common International products provider BT Australasia Pty Limited Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Australia 100% preference BT Business Direct Limited Technology equipment retailer 100% ordinary UK b BT Communications do Brasil Limitada Communications related services, technology consulting 100% common Brazil and products provider BT Communications Ireland Limited Telecommunications services provider 100% ordinary Republic of Ireland BT Conferencing Inc Audio, video and web collaboration services provider 100% common US BT Conferencing Video Inc Audio, video and web collaboration services provider 100% common US BT Convergent Solutions Limited Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary UK BT Engage IT Limited IT solutions provider 100% ordinary UK BT ESPANA, Compania fide Servicios Globales fide Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Spain Telecommunicaciones, SA BT Fleet Limited Fleet management company 100% ordinary UK BT France SA Communications related services, systems integration and 100% ordinary France products provider BT Germany GmbH & Co. oHG Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Germany BT Global Communications India Private Limited Communications related services 100% ordinary India BT Global Services Limited International telecommunications network systems provider 100% ordinary UK BT Holdings Limited Investment holding company 100% ordinary UK BT Hong Kong Limited Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Hong Kong 100% preference b BT LatAm Brasil Ltda Data communication services 100% common Brazil BT Italia SpA Communications related services and products provider 98.6% ordinary Italy BT Limited International telecommunications network systems provider 100% ordinary International BT Managed Services Limited Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary UK BT Nederland NV Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Netherlands BT Payment Services Limited Payment services provider 100% ordinary UK BT Services SA Technology consulting and engineering services 100% ordinary France BT Singapore Pte Ltd Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Singapore BT Switzerland AG Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Switzerland d Communications Global Network Services Limited Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary International Communications Networking Services UK Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary UK dabs.
com plc Technology equipment retailer 100% ordinary UK Infonet Services Corporation Global managed network service provider 100% common US Plusnet plc Broadband service provider 100% ordinary UK Radianz Americas Inc Global managed network service provider 100% common US 100% preference a The group comprises a large number of entities and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore includes only those entities that have a significant impact on the revenue, profit or assets of the group.
A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the companys next annual return led with the Registrar of Companies.
b The principal operating subsidiaries listed above have a reporting date of 31 March, except for entities domiciled in Brazil, due to regulatory requirements.
c The proportion of voting rights held corresponds to the aggregate interest percentage held by the holding company and subsidiary undertakings.
d All overseas undertakings are incorporated in their country of operations.
Subsidiary undertakings operating internationally are all incorporated in England and Wales, except BT Americas Inc and Communications Global Network Services Limited which are incorporated in the US and Bermuda, respectively.
e On 31 March 2012 BT INS Inc merged with BT Americas Inc. Share capital Percentage Country f g h Associate Activity Issued owned of operation Tech Mahindra Limited Global systems integrator and business transformation consultancy provider 127,486,541 23.18% India f Issued share capital comprises ordinary or common shares unless otherwise stated.
g Held through an intermediate holding company.
h Incorporated in the country of operation.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview BT is one of our longestA responsible and sustainable standing partners and business leader has made an amazing MyDonate is the free, easy-to-use and secure online fundraising service for UK charities introduced by BT in contribution to Sport 2011 to boost the online giving market and raise more money for good causes.
Thanks to MyDonate, charities Relief from the start.
They receive up to 50p more for every 10 donated compared with other online donation services.
provide Comic Relief with This year BT employees pulled out all the stops to raise the systems, call centres and money for Sport Relief and they did so using MyDonate.
What's more, over 700 BT volunteers took donation calls network support that enable on Sport Relief 2012 night helping Sport Relief raise an incredible 52m.
us to process millions of Around 3,000 charities registered for MyDonate in its first year and many have praised the service as it has helped pounds worth of donations them to raise vital funds in challenging economic times.
Theyre also a real pace-setter in nding new services like MyDonate Helping UK charities raise more money for good causes to help charities raise money.
com mydonate Kevin Cahill Chief Executive, Comic Relief Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
