Governance General information Based on this assessment, management has concluded that at 31March the groups internal auditors carry out continuing assessments of the 2012, BTs internal control over financial reporting was effective.
quality of risk management and control, report to management and the Audit & Risk Committee on the status of specic areas identied There were no changes in BTs internal control over financial reporting for improvement and promote effective risk management in the lines that occurred during 2012 that have materially affected, or are of business and internal service units operations reasonably likely to have materially affected, the groups internal control over financial reporting.
Any significant deficiency, as dened the Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the by the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB, in effectiveness of the operation of internal control procedures in the internal control over financial reporting, is reported to the Audit & group during the financial year.
It reviews reports from the internal Risk Committee.
 LLP, which has audited and external auditors and reports its conclusions to the Board.
The the consolidated financial statements for 2012, has also audited the Audit & Risk Committee has carried out these actions for 2012. effectiveness of the groups internal control over financial reporting Joint ventures and associates, which BT does not control, have not under Auditing Standard No.
been dealt with as part of the group risk management process and are responsible for their own internal control assessment.
Internal control and risk management BTs significant accounting policies are set out on pages 104 to 109.
The Board is responsible for the groups systems of internal control The consistent application of those policies is subject to ongoing and risk management and for reviewing each year the effectiveness verication through management review and by independent of those systems.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than review by internal and external auditors.
The processes supporting eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives: any system the preparation and consolidation of the financial statements have can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against been documented and are subject to annual verication through the material misstatement or loss.
The process in place for reviewing BTs programme of testing conducted by our internal auditors which serves systems of internal control includes procedures designed to identify and to confirm the operation of the internal controls over financial reporting evaluate failings and weaknesses, and, in the case of any categorised as and compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Audit & Risk significant, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to Committee reviews BTs published financial results, related disclosures remedy the failings.
The Committees activities are set out on The Board also takes account of significant social, environmental and pages70 to 71. ethical matters that relate to BTs businesses and reviews annually BTs The Board has approved the formal statement of matters which corporate responsibility policy.
The companys workplace practices, are reserved to it for consideration, approval or oversight.
It has specic environmental, social and ethical risks and opportunities also approved the groups corporate governance framework, which and details of underlying governance processes are dealt with in the sets out the high level principles by which BT is managed and the Strategy section A responsible and sustainable business leader and responsibilities and powers of the Operating Committee and the groups Our resources on pages 26 to 31. senior executives.
As part of this framework, the development and We have enterprise-wide risk management processes for identifying, implementation of certain powers relating to group-wide policies and evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group.
These practices are reserved to identied senior executives.
processes have been in place during 2012 and have continued up to the date on which this document was approved.
The processes are in Takeover Directive disclosure accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
Following the implementation of the European Union EU Takeover Risk assessment and evaluation takes place as an integral part of BTs Directive by certain provisions of the 2006 Act, we are required to make annual strategic planning cycle.
We have a detailed risk management additional disclosures.
A number of these disclosures can be found process, culminating in a Board review, which identies the key risks elsewhere in this Report as set out below: facing the group and each business unit.
This information is reviewed by structure of BTs share capital refer to page 162 including the rights senior management as part of the strategic review.
Our current key risks and obligations attaching to the shares refer to pages 181 to 183 are summarised in the Strategy section Our risks on pages 32 to 37. restrictions on the transfer of BT shares and voting rights refer to The key features of the enterprise-wide risk management and internal pages 181 and 182 control process comprise the following procedures: significant direct or indirect shareholdings refer to page 93 senior executives collectively review the groups key risks and have created a Group Risk Register describing the risks, owners and appointment and replacement of directors refer to pages 81, 82 mitigation strategies.
This is reviewed by the Group Risk Panel and and 183. the Operating Committee before being reviewed and approved bythe Board the lines of business and internal service units carry out risk assessments of their operations, create risk registers relating to those operations, and ensure that the key risks are addressed senior executives with responsibilities for major group operations report quarterly with their opinion on the effectiveness of the operation of internal controls in their area of responsibility Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
