176 Additional information Information for shareholders Stock exchange listings The principal listing of BT Groups ordinary shares is on the London Stock Exchange.
Trading on the London Stock Exchange is under the symbol BT.
A. American Depositary Shares ADSs, each representing 10 ordinary shares, have been issued by JPMorgan Chase & Co, as Depositary for the American Depositary Receipts ADRs evidencing the ADSs, and are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
ADSs also trade, but are not listed, on the London Stock Exchange.
Trading on the New York Stock Exchange is under the symbol BT.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between Sterling and the US Dollar affect the US Dollar equivalent of the Sterling price of the companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange and, as a result, are likely to affect the market price of the ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange.
Background BT Group plc is a public limited company registered in England and Wales and listed on the London and New York Stock Exchanges.
It was incorporated in England and Wales on 30 March 2001 as Newgate Telecommunications Limited with the registered number 4190816.
Its registered ofce address is 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ.
The company changed its name to BT Group plc on 11 September 2001.
Following the demerger of O2 in November 2001, the continuing activities of BT were transferred to BT Group plc.
British Telecommunications plc is a wholly-owned subsidiary of BT Group plc and encompasses virtually all the businesses and assets of the BT group.
The successor to the statutory corporation British Telecommunications, it was incorporated in England and Wales as a public limited company, wholly owned by the Government, as a result of the Telecommunications Act 1984.
Between November 1984 and July 1993, the Government sold all of its shareholding in British Telecommunications plc in three public offerings.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
