Governance Directors information Statement of Directors responsibilities Disclosure of information to auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant information Report on Directors Remuneration and the Financial statements in that has not been disclosed to the auditors and each of the directors accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires believes that all steps have been taken that ought to have been taken to the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
make them aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Under that law the directors have elected to prepare the consolidated the auditors have been made aware of that information.
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and the Going concern parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
In The sections on Business, Strategy and Performance on pages 9 to 59 preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors have also include information on the group structure, the performance of each elected to comply with IFRS, issued by the International Accounting of the lines of business, the impact of regulation and competition and Standards Board IASB.
Under company law the directors must not principal risks and uncertainties.
The Performance section on pages 39 approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give to 59 includes information on our financial results, financial outlook, a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and the company cash ow and net debt and balance sheet position.
Notes 22, 23, 24 and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing these and 26 of the consolidated financial statements include information financial statements, the directors are required to: on the groups investments, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently derivatives, financial risk management objectives, hedging policies andexposures to interest, foreign exchange, credit, liquidity and make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable marketrisks.
andprudent Alongside the factors noted above, the directors have considered the state whether IFRS as adopted by the European Union and IFRS groups cash ow forecasts, in particular with reference to the period issued by IASB and applicable UK Accounting Standards have to the end of May 2013.
The directors are satisfied that this cash ow been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and forecast, taking into account reasonably possible risk sensitivities explained in the consolidated and parent company financial associated with this forecast and the groups current funding and  facilities, alongside the groups funding strategy, shows that the group prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless will continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
The directors it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue therefore continue to have a reasonable expectation that the group inbusiness.
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and continue to adopt a going concern basis in The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records accordance with the guidance Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 issued by the Financial disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position Reporting Council in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
of the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Report on Directors Remuneration There has been no significant change in the financial or trading position comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated of the group since 31 March 2012. financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group Independent advice and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection The Board has a procedure for directors, in carrying out their duties, to take of fraud and other irregularities.
independent professional advice if necessary, at BTs expense.
All directors Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages63 also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
to 64 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: Directors and ofcers liability insurance and the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true indemnity and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of For some years, BT has purchased insurance to cover the directors, the group ofcers and employees in positions of managerial supervision of BT Group plc and its subsidiaries against defence costs and civil damages the Report of the Directors on pages 9 to 93 includes a fair review of awarded following an action brought against them in their personal the development and performance of the business and the position capacity.
The policy also covers such individuals whilst serving at the of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and companys request as directors of other companies or of joint ventures uncertainties that it faces.
or on the boards of trade associations or charitable organisations.
The insurance operates to protect the directors and ofcers directly significant accounting policies, critical accounting in circumstances where by law BT cannot provide an indemnity and estimates and key judgements also provides BT, subject to a retention, with cover against the cost Our significant accounting policies are set out on pages 104 to 109 of of indemnifying a director or officer.
One layer of insurance is ringthe consolidated financial statements and conform with IFRS.
These fenced for the directors of BT Group plc.
The cover has been extended policies, and applicable estimation techniques have been reviewed to provide limited cover for civil fines and penalties.
As at 9May 2012, by the directors who have confirmed them to be appropriate for the and throughout 2012, the companys wholly-owned subsidiary, British preparation of the 2012 consolidated financial statements.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
