90 Governance Directors information Telecommunications plc, has provided an indemnity in respect of a require companies to comply with certain provisions relating to similar group of people who would be covered by the above insurance.
These include the independence of audit Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where the committee members and procedures for the treatment of complaints person has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
We are fully compliant with these requirements.
Interest of management in certain transactions US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 During and at the end of 2012, none of BTs directors was materially interested in any material transaction in relation to the groups BT has securities registered with the SEC.
As a result, we must comply businessand none is materially interested in any presently proposed with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign material transactions.
We comply with the legal and regulatory requirements introduced pursuant to this legislation, in so far as they are applicable.
Power to authorise conicts The Audit & Risk Committee includes members Phil Hodkinson and Nick All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act Rose who, in the opinion of the Board, are audit committee financial to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or indirect experts and who are independent as dened for this purpose.
The interest that conicts or possibly may conict with the interests of the Board considers that the Committees members have broad commercial company.
The companys Articles of Association include provisions for knowledge and extensive business leadership experience, having held dealing with directors conicts of interest in accordance with the 2006 between them various prior roles in major business, Government, Act.
The company has procedures in place, which it follows, to deal with financial management, treasury and financial function supervision and situations where directors may have any such conicts, which require that this constitutes a broad and suitable mix of business and financial the Board to: experience on the Committee.
consider each conict situation separately on its particular facts The code of ethics adopted for the purposes of the consider the conict situation in conjunction with the rest of their Sarbanes-Oxley Act is available at www.
com ethics duties under the 2006 Act keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations granted by The code applies to the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and directors and the scope of any approvals given senior finance managers.
Disclosure controls and procedures The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, after evaluating the General information effectiveness of BTs disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report & Form 20-F, have concluded that, as of such date, BTs disclosure controls and procedures were US Regulation effective to ensure that material information relating to BT was made New York Stock Exchange known to them by others within the group.
BT, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on the The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director concluded that BTs New York Stock Exchange NYSE, is obliged to disclose any significant disclosure controls and procedures are also effective to ensure that the ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from the information required to be disclosed by the company in reports that corporate governance listing standards of the NYSE.
it les under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Exchange Act is We have reviewed the NYSEs listing standards and believe that our recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods corporate governance practices are consistent with them, with the specified in the rules and forms of theSEC.
following exception where we do not meet the strict requirements set out The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have also provided the in the standards.
These state that companies must have a nominating certications required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent directors and with written terms of reference which, in addition to Internal control over financial reporting identifying individuals qualied to become board members, develops and recommends to the Board a set of corporate governance principles BTs management is responsible for establishing and maintaining applicable to the company.
We have a Nominating & Governance adequate internal control over financial reporting for the group Committee whose terms of reference include governance and compliance including the consolidation process.
Internal control over financial issues see Nominating & Governance Committee Chairmans report on reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding page 72.
The Nominating & Governance Committees terms of reference the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial are in line with the requirements set out in the standards.
However, the statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
Committee is chaired by the Chairman, Sir Michael Rake, who is not Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of internal considered independent under the NYSEs listing standards.
The Board control over financial reporting based on the framework for internal and the Nominating & Governance Committee are made up of a majority control evaluation contained in the Revised Guidance for Directors on of independent, non-executive directors.
the UK Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull Guidance.
The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Sarbanes-Oxley Act the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and NYSE rules Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
