12 Business How we are organised this work effectively Openreachs operational, engineering and systems UK Consumers capabilities are separate from the rest of BT.
The UK consumer customer segment is served by the BT Consumer and BT Ireland divisions of BT Retail.
BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate Our customer-facing lines of business are supported by two internal Customers service units, BT Innovate & Design BTID and BT Operate BTO.
There are around 26m households in the UK and this is growing slowly, currently at a rate of around 1% every year, due to an increasing BT Innovate & Design population and demographic changes.
We can reach almost all of these households with our consumer products and services.
BTID designs, develops, tests and deploys IT systems, processes, networks, products and services.
These are either used by, or sold At 31 March 2012 we had a total of 10.9m consumer xed lines in the through, the customer-facing lines of business to end-customers in UK with around 10m active voice lines lines where the consumer also the UK and around the world.
BTID aims to develop cost-efficient, buys calls from us.
We had around 6.3m retail broadband customers exiblesolutions.
including business customers, of which over 550,000 now take BT In addition, BTID manages and delivers our long-term technology Innity, our super-fast bre-based broadband service.
At 31 March strategy and our global research and innovation activities, including our 2012 our BT Vision customer base was over 700,000. worldwide patent portfolio see page 30.
Markets BT Operate The UK consumer market for xed calls and lines, broadband and TV services is highly competitive, with more than 100 companies offering BTO manages our core voice, data and TV networks, and IT applications voice and or broadband services.
The market has concentrated over the which represent the core infrastructure over which we run our portfolio last few years and there are now several strong players.
The four highest of products and services.
market shares are held by BT, Virgin Media, Sky and TalkTalk.
BTO is also responsible for managing our energy consumption and the strategy for reducing our future carbon footprint see page48.
Fixed calls and lines In addition, BTO manages the physical and cyber security of About 84% of households in the UK have a xed telephone line and ouroperations.
this percentage has been steady for the last two years.
There are currently 23.9m xed lines to households in the UK, some of which take more than one line, up 0.5% compared with last year.
Fixed lines Customers, markets and products have remained important to customers as they need them to receive broadband services.
Around 15% of UK households have only a mobile We serve a number of different customer groups phone and about 1% of UK households have no type of telephone at all.
The number of call minutes from xed lines has been in decline for some in the UK and around the world.
In this section we time, with our total call minutes down 11% in the year, as customers are explain who our customers are and the trends we increasingly using mobile phones, email, social networking and other see in the markets where we operate, as well as the kinds of communication as alternatives.
products and services we offer customers in response We have the largest share of xed lines to households in the UK at 47%, to market trends.
although this has been on a declining trend due to the increasingly competitive nature of the market.
The three main competitors to BT for xed calls and lines are Virgin Media, Sky and TalkTalk.
How we are organised to serve our customers Customers Large corporate & UK Consumers UK SMEs Wholesale customers public sector customers BT Retail BT Global Services BT Wholesale Openreach Customer-facing units Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
