60 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1.
General information Chemring Group PLC is a company incorporated in England and IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 amended Investment Entities Wales under registration number 86662.
The address of the IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements registered ofce is Chemring House, 1500 Parkway, Whiteley, Fareham, Hampshire, PO15 7AF.
The nature of the Groups IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5 and in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement the directors report on pages 30 to 32.
These financial statements IAS 27 Revised Separate Financial Statements are the consolidated financial statements of Chemring Group PLC and its subsidiaries the Group.
IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling IAS 32 amended Offsetting Financial Assets and and rounded to the nearest 0.1 million.
Foreign operations are Financial Liabilities included in accordance with the policy set out in note 3 of the IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a financial statements.
Surface Mine Going concern The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and The directors have, at the time of approving the financial interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group and the financial statements of the Group, except for: Company have adequate resources to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets Further detail is contained in the statement on corporate and Liabilities will increase the disclosure requirements governance on page 52. where netting procedures are in place for financial assets and financial liabilities.
Adoption of new and revised standards IFRS 9 Financial Instruments This will introduce a number of In the current year, the following new and revised Standards and changes in the presentation of financial instruments.
Interpretations have been adopted and have affected the amounts reported in these financial statements: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 27 Revised Separate Financial Statements and IAS 28 amended June 2011 Revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures The Group has applied the amendments titled Presentation of These will restrict the presentation options of the results of Items of Other Comprehensive Income to IAS 1 in advance of the joint ventures, which the Group expects to enter into, in the effective date annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012. financial statements.
The amendment increases the required level of disclosure within IAS 19 Employee Benets Revised This will impact the the statement of comprehensive income.
measurement of the various components representing The impact of this amendment has been to analyse items within movements in the dened benefit pension obligation and the statement of comprehensive income between items that associated disclosures, but not the Groups total obligation.
will not be reclassied subsequently to the income statement Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a and items that will be reclassied subsequently to the income reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed statement in accordance with the respective IFRS to which the item review has been completed.
The amendments have been applied retrospectively, and hence the presentation of items in the consolidated statement of 3.
Accounting policies comprehensive income has been restated to reect the change.
Basis of preparation Other than the above mentioned presentation changes, the These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applications of IAS 1 do not result in any impact on profit or loss, IFRS adopted for use in the European Union.
These will be those comprehensive income and total comprehensive income.
IAS, IFRS and related Interpretations Standing Interpretations The following IFRIC interpretations, amendments to existing Committee SIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations standards and new standards have been adopted in the Committee IFRIC interpretations, subsequent amendments to current year but have not impacted the reported results or the those standards and related interpretations, future standards financial position: and related interpretations issued or adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB that have been endorsed by Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures the European Commission collectively referred to as IFRS.
These Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes are subject to ongoing review and endorsement by the European Commission or possible amendment by interpretive guidance from At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the the IASB and the IFRIC, and are therefore still subject to change.
following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet Basis of accounting effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with European Union : IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
IAS19 Employee Benets revised June 2011 The particular accounting policies adopted have been applied IFRS 1 amended Government Loans consistently throughout the current and previous years and are IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets described below.
and Liabilities Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009-2011 Cycle Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 61 Accounting convention Investment income The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost Dividend income from investments is recognised when the convention, except for the revaluation of certain properties and shareholders rights to receive payment have been established financial instruments.
provided that the economic benets will ow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Basis of consolidation The group financial statements consolidate those of the Company Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic and all of its subsidiaries.
A subsidiary undertaking is an entity benets will ow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and measured reliably.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated from the date on which control passes to the Group and the results future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset of disposed subsidiaries are consolidated up to the date on which to that assets net carrying amount on initial recognition.
control passes from the Group.
Acquisitions All companies within the Group make up their financial statements On acquisition of a subsidiary, the cost is measured as the fair value to the same date.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income of the consideration.
The assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
of subsidiary undertakings that meet the IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations recognition criteria are measured at the fair Operating profit value at the date of acquisition, except that: Operating profit is stated before the share of results of associates and before finance expense.
deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets relating to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured Revenue recognition in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received Benets respectively: or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by discounts, VAT and other revenue related taxes.
the Group of an acquirees share-based payment awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: and Sale of goods Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when all of the assets or disposal groups that are classied as held for sale, following conditions are satisfied: in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with the Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and that standard.
reward of ownership, typically on formal acceptance: Where cost exceeds fair value of the net assets acquired, the the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement difference is recorded as goodwill.
to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold: Where the fair value of the net assets exceeds the cost, the difference is recorded directly in the income statement.
The the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: accounting policies of subsidiary undertakings are changed where it is probable that the economic benets associated with the necessary to be consistent with those of the Group.
transaction will ow to the entity: and If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, can be measured reliably.
the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted Rendering of services during the measurement period see below, or additional assets Revenue from a contract to provide services is recognised by or liabilities recognised, to reect new information obtained about reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date Long term contracts that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of When the outcome of a long term contract can be estimated that date.
reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage The measurement period is from the date of acquisition to the of completion at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured date the Group obtains complete information about facts and by the proportion of contract costs incurred for work performed circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to date against the estimated total contract costs, except where to a maximum of one year.
this would not be representative of the actual stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are In accordance with IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations, included to the extent that the amounts can be measured reliably acquisition costs have been expensed through the income and their receipt is considered probable.
Acquisition and disposal related costs refer to external costs incurred in acquiring and disposing of companies, When the outcome of a long term contract cannot be estimated together with the costs of aborted bids and the establishment of reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract joint ventures.
costs incurred where it is probable they will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which Intangible assets they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will Goodwill exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as The purchased goodwill of the Group is regarded as having an an expense immediately.
indefinite useful economic life and, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, is not amortised but is subject to annual tests for impairment.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 62 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements Inventories 3.
Accounting policies continued Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost represents materials, direct labour, other direct costs controlled entity, the amount attributable to goodwill is included in and related production overheads, and is determined using the the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Net realisable value is based on Acquired intangibles estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred For acquisitions after 1 November 2004, the Group recognises to completion and disposal.
separately from goodwill intangible assets that are separable or Provision is made for slow moving, obsolete and defective items arise from contractual or other legal rights and whose fair value where appropriate.
These intangible assets are amortised at rates calculated to write down their cost or valuation to their Borrowing costs estimated residual values by equal instalments over their estimated Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, useful economic lives, which are considered to be: construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for Technology - average of 10 years their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, Customer relationships - average of 10 years until such time as the assets are subsequently ready for their intended use or sale.
Once the assets are ready for their intended Order books - average of 2 years use, these capitalised borrowing costs are depreciated in line with Development costs the underlying asset.
Development costs that qualify as intangible assets are capitalised Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specic as incurred and, once the relevant intangible asset is ready for use, borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is are amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
averaging three years 2011: three years.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement Patents and licences in the period in which they are incurred.
Patents and licences are measured initially at purchase cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, Government grants averaging ten years 2011: ten years.
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching Property, plant and equipment to them and that the grants will be received.
Other than historically revalued land and buildings, property, plant and equipment are held at cost less accumulated depreciation and The benefit of a government loan at a below-market rate of interest any recognised impairment loss.
Borrowing costs on significant is treated as a government grant, measured as the difference capital expenditure projects are capitalised and allocated to the between proceeds received and the fair value of the loan based on cost of the project.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
On prevailing market interest rates.
other assets, depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write Government grants towards staff re-training costs are recognised down their cost or valuation to their estimated residual values by as income over the periods necessary to match them with the equal instalments over their estimated useful economic lives, which related costs and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
are considered to be: Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are Freehold buildings - up to 50 years treated as deferred income and released to the income statement Leasehold buildings - the period of the lease over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Plant and equipment - up to 10 years Tax The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable Investments in associates and deferred tax.
The results and the assets and liabilities of associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Any excess The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
of the cost of investment over the Groups share of the fair value Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income of identiable assets and liabilities within the associate at the date statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are of acquisition is accounted for as goodwill that is included in the taxable or deductible in other years, and it further excludes items carrying value of the investment and is assessed for impairment as of income that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability part of that investment.
for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Impairment of non-current assets Assets that have indefinite lives are allocated to the Groups cash Deferred tax is expected to be payable or recoverable on generating units and tested for impairment at least annually.
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used reviewed for impairment whenever changes in circumstances in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
To the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally extent that the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount, recognised for all taxable temporary differences, and deferred an impairment loss is recorded for the difference as an expense tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable taxable in the income statement.
The recoverable amount used for profits will be available in the future against which deductible impairment testing is the higher of the value in use and its fair temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are value less costs of disposal.
For the purpose of impairment testing, not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are from the initial recognition other than in a business combination separately identiable cash ows.
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 63 Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary Financial instruments differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is provisions of the instrument.
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the Financial assets foreseeable future.
Trade receivables The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow irrecoverable amounts.
all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated Cash and cash equivalents at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or deposits, and other short term highly liquid investments that are credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred insignicant risk of change in value.
tax is also dealt with in equity.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally Financial liabilities enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classied according liabilities, when they relate to income taxed levied by the same tax to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An authority, and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest liabilities on a net basis.
in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Special capital reserve Bank borrowings The special capital reserve was created as part of a capital Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the reduction scheme involving the cancellation of the share premium proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, account which was approved by the Court in 1986, in accordance including premiums payable on settlement or redemption, and with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985. direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis to the Foreign currencies income statement using the effective interest method, and are The individual financial statements of each Group company are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the Trade payables consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their of each Group company are expressed in pounds sterling, which nominal value.
is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting currency for the consolidated financial statements.
The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, of interest rate and foreign currency transactions, and it uses transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to these currency foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange transactional risks.
The Group uses interest rate swap contracts, prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance foreign exchange forward contracts and other forward currency sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated structures to reduce these exposures and does not use derivative in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rates prevailing on financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value at that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the the date the derivative contract is entered into and are revalued rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The method by which any Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost gain or loss is recognised depends on whether the instrument is in a foreign currency are not re-translated.
designated a hedging instrument or not.
To be designated as a Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, hedging instrument, the instrument must be documented as such and on the re-translation of monetary items, are included in the at inception, and must be assessed at inception and on an ongoing income statement for the period.
basis to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, cash ows of hedged items.
the Group enters into forward contracts and forward currency Hedge accounting principles are used for foreign currency structures which are accounted for as derivative financial forward contracts and interest rate swaps where appropriate, instruments see below for details of the Groups accounting with movements in fair value taken to equity for cash ow hedges policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
and the income statement for fair value hedges, until such time For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, as the underlying amounts of the contract mature.
At maturity the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are or disposal of the net investment, the amounts held in equity will translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
be recycled to the income statement.
Changes in fair value of any Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange ineffective portion of net investment hedges and interest rate rates for the period.
swaps are recognised in the income statement immediately.
The fair values of derivative financial instruments are calculated by Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of third party valuers.
a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 64 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Accounting policies continued date, the impact of any revision to vesting estimates is recognised in the income statement over the vesting period.
Proceeds Where derivatives do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting, received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are the changes in fair value are immediately recognised in the credited to share capital and share premium.
For cash settled share-based grants, the total amount recognised is Hedges of net investments in foreign operations based on the fair value of the liability incurred.
The fair value of the Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the liability is re-measured at each balance sheet date, with changes in effective portion of the hedge is recognised in the statement of the fair value recognised in the income statement for the period.
comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve that forms part of the revenue reserve.
The gain Post balance sheet events or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately Following IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, the in the income statement.
Group continues to disclose events that it considers material, non-disclosure of which can inuence the economic decisions of Embedded derivatives users of the financial statements.
Embedded derivatives that are not closely related to the host contract are treated as separate derivatives, with unrealised gains Critical accounting judgements and key sources of and losses reported in the income statement.
estimation uncertainty When applying the Groups accounting policies, management Retirement benefit costs must make assumptions and estimates concerning the future Payments to dened contribution retirement benefit schemes that affect the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at the are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For dened benefit balance sheet date and the amounts of revenue and expenses schemes, the cost of providing benets is determined using the recognised during the accounting period.
Such assumptions and projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being estimates are based upon factors such as historical experience, the carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses observance of trends in the industries in which the Group operates, are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are and information available from the Groups customers and other recognised outside of the income statement and presented in the outside sources.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that the benets are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the a straight-line basis over the average period until the benets carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial become vested.
year include: The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet Assessment of long term contractual arrangements represents the present value of the dened benefit obligation The Group has long term contracts that fall into different as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced accounting periods.
In assessing the allocation of revenues and by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this costs to individual accounting periods, and the consequential calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value assets and liabilities, the Group estimates the total revenues and of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to costs forecast to arise in respect of the contract and the stage of the scheme.
completion based on an appropriate measure of performance as Leased assets described under the revenue recognition policy on page 61.
The Where the Group enters into a lease which entails taking Group utilises assumptions and projections, principally relating substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset, to future material, labour and overhead costs.
As a consequence, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
The asset is recorded in the there is a risk that total contract costs will exceed those originally balance sheet as property, plant and equipment, and is depreciated estimated and the margin will decrease.
Changes to initial over the shorter of the estimated useful economic life and the lease assumptions, which are reviewed on a regular basis, may result term.
Future instalments under such leases, net of finance charges, in revisions to estimated costs and anticipated margins.
These are included in creditors.
The finance element of the instalments is are recognised in the period in which the estimated costs are charged to the income statement at a constant rate of charge on determined.
The determination of appropriate accounting policies the remaining balance of the obligation.
for recognising revenue and costs in respect of these contracts requires judgement, in particular i whether contract accounting All other leases are operating leases, and the rental charges are is the most appropriate method of recognising revenue on these taken to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the life contracts: and ii the appropriate measure of stage of completion of the lease.
Share-based compensation Goodwill impairment review The Group operates equity settled and cash settled share-based Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of compensation schemes.
the value-in-use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has For grants made under the Groups share-based compensation been allocated.
The value-in-use calculation requires the entity to schemes, the fair value of an award is measured at the date of determine such assets, to estimate the future cash ows expected grant and reects any market-based vesting conditions.
Non to arise from the cash-generating unit, and to determine a suitable market-based vesting conditions are excluded from the fair value of discount rate in order to calculate present value see note 13.
At the date of grant, the Company estimates the number reviewing the carrying value of goodwill of the Groups various of awards expected to vest as a result of non market-based vesting businesses, the Board has considered the separate plans and cash conditions, and the fair value of this estimated number of awards ows of these businesses consistent with the requirements of is recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account on a IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and is satisfied that these demonstrate Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 65 that no impairment has occurred in respect of continuing Environmental provisions operations.
The plans and cash ows of these businesses have Where the Group is liable for decontamination work or the factored in the possible impacts of the US scal cliff and the more restoration of sites to their original condition, the directors make difficult economic conditions for the defence industry in general.
their best estimate of the costs needed to complete these works, discounted back to present values where appropriate, relying upon Tax independent expert third party valuers where appropriate.
The largest category of deferred tax asset which contains significant estimation uncertainty and which requires management Restructuring provisions judgement in assessing its recoverability relates to tax losses A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has carried forward see note 26 for further details.
developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring, and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out Applicable accounting standards permit the recognition of deferred the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing tax assets only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of profits will be available to utilise the tax losses carried forward.
The a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures assessment of future taxable profits involves significant estimation arising from the restructuring and not those associated with the uncertainty, principally relating to an assessment of managements ongoing activities of the entity.
projections of future taxable income based on business plans and ongoing tax planning strategies.
These projections include Warranties assumptions about the future strategy of the Group, the economic Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations under and regulatory environment in which the Group operates, future local sale of goods legislation are recognised at the date of sale tax legislation, and customer behaviour, amongst other variables of the relevant products, at the directors best estimate of the see note 26 for details of tax losses on which deferred tax assets expenditure required to settle the Groups obligation.
Assets and liabilities acquired under business combinations Under IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations, it is necessary to separately identify and value any acquired intangible assets.
In order to ascertain the values of the separate assets, it is necessary for management to estimate the future cash ows attributable to the assets and estimate their useful economic lives see note 14.
Assets and liabilities are recognised on acquisition when relevant, which include deferred tax assets on losses see note 26.
Pensions The liability recognised in relation to retirement benefit obligations is dependent on a number of assumptions, including discount rate, mortality rate, salary increases and ination.
Any change in these assumptions would change the amount recognised see note 34.
Legal The Group is subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising in the ordinary course of business.
The Group is required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgements or outcomes, as well as potential ranges of probable losses.
A determination of the amount of reserves required for these matters is based on a careful analysis of each individual issue with the assistance of outside legal counsel.
However, actual claims incurred could differ from the original estimates.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash ows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash ows.
When some or all of the economic benets required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 66 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements 4.
Revenue All of the Groups revenue is derived from the sale of goods, revenue from long term contracts and provision of services.
The following table provides an analysis of the Groups revenue by destination.
Total Total 2012 2011 Revenue by destination m m Continuing operations: UK 112.0 128.3 USA 348.5 318.0 Europe 84.8 71.1 Australia and Far East 60.4 44.7 Middle East 120.5 138.2 Rest of the world 14.1 23.8 740.3 724.1 Discontinued operations: UK 1.0 1.1 USA 2.5 2.1 Europe 6.7 9.0 Australia and Far East 3.4 6.1 Middle East - 0.9 Rest of the world 1.5 2.0 15.1 21.2 Total 755.4 745.3 Revenue from long term contract accounting in the above gures amounted to 275.8 million 2011: 133.9 million.
The increase since 2011 reects the first full year of results for Chemring Detection Systems, as well as growth in the business of Mecar.
In addition to the revenues shown above, there was finance income of 0.1 million 2011: 0.1 million.
The directors consider the only countries that are significant in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments are the USA and the UK, as disclosed above, and Saudi Arabia, which is included within the Middle East category and which had revenue of 92.8 million 2011: 104.1 million.
5. Business segments IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identied on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Chief Executive and the Board of Directors to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
For management purposes the Group has four operating divisions Counter-IED, Countermeasures, Pyrotechnics and Munitions.
These divisions are the basis on which it reports its segmental information and the principal activities are as follows: Counter-IED: IED Improvised Explosive Device detection equipment: chemical and biological threat detection equipment: IED electronic countermeasures: explosive ordnance disposal equipment: demilitarisation services.
Countermeasures: Expendable active and passive countermeasures for naval and air platforms: land-based electronic warfare equipment.
Pyrotechnics: Signals and illumination devices and payloads: cartridge propellant actuated devices: pyrotechnic devices for satellite launch and deployment.
Munitions: Missile and ammunition components: propellants: warheads: fuzes: energetic materials: medium and large calibre ammunition.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 67 A segmental analysis of revenue and operating profit is set out below: 2012 2011 Business segments m m Revenue Counter-IED 205.3 167.6 Countermeasures 184.1 200.8 Pyrotechnics 123.0 118.7 Munitions 227.9 237.0 Revenue from continuing operations 740.3 724.1 Revenue from discontinued operations Pyrotechnics 15.1 21.2 Total revenue 755.4 745.3 2012 2011 Operating profit m m Counter-IED 43.9 31.9 Countermeasures 18.3 46.7 Pyrotechnics 12.3 26.4 Munitions 24.3 40.8 Unallocated corporate costs 10.5 10.0 Underlying operating profit from continuing operations 88.3 135.8 Underlying operating profit from discontinued operations Pyrotechnics 3.1 6.0 Total underlying operating profit 91.4 141.8 Acquisition and disposal related costs see note 32 8.2 5.7 Restructuring and incident costs 11.9 7.2 profit on disposal of business see note 33 10.3 - Impairment of goodwill see note 13 22.5 - Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations see note 14 20.9 24.3 Gain on fair value movements on derivatives see note 24 1.9 2.4 Non-underlying items see note 6 51.3 34.8 Operating profit from continuing operations see note 6 37.0 101.0 Share of post-tax results of associate 0.1 0.1 Finance income 0.1 0.1 Finance expense 18.4 15.8 profit before tax from continuing operations 18.8 85.4 Tax 5.6 15.4 profit after tax from continuing operations 13.2 70.0 profit after tax from discontinued operations 2.1 3.9 profit after tax for the year 15.3 73.9 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 68 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements 5. Business segments continued The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 3.
Segment profit represents the profit earned by each segment, without allocation of corporate costs including directors salaries, exceptional items, the share of profit of associates, finance income and expense, and income tax expense.
This is the measure reported to the Group Chief Executive for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance.
Unallocated corporate costs Unallocated corporate costs were 10.5 million, slightly up on 2011, due largely to the costs associated with the Groups London ofce, which has been vacated since the year end.
Intra-group transactions There are no material intra-group transactions included within the above gures for revenue and profit.
Restructuring and incident costs In 2012, the restructuring costs related to the closure of the Groups Marshall, Texas site 3.3 million, the restructuring of the Groups US countermeasures businesses 2.5 million, the restructuring of the Groups UK operations 2.6 million, and an additional 1.5 million relating to several smaller restructuring projects.
There were also a number of Board changes during the year, resulting in associated costs of 2.0 million.
Further details of the compensation for loss of ofce payments of 1.1 million and deferred share awards worth 0.3 million received by two of the former executive directors are set out in the directors remuneration report.
The balance of the costs relate to recruitment, and various other legal and professional fees.
There is a 1.8 million difference between the expense in the income statement and the amount appearing in the cash ow statement which relates to timing differences and non-cash movements.
Information about major customers Included in revenues arising from the segments are revenues of approximately 289.6 million 2011: 246.6 million and 89.7 million 2011: 103.6 million, which arose from sales to the Groups two largest customers respectively.
The largest customer had sales reported in all four of the Groups reporting segments, whilst sales to the second largest customer were primarily from the Munitions segment.
These were the only individual customers where direct sales account for more than 10% of the total Group revenue for the year.
The Group does not disclose assets or liabilities by segment in the monthly management accounts provided to the Executive Committee or the Board of Directors.
The Improvements to IFRSs issued in April 2009 only requires information provided to the chief operating decision maker as a key decision making tool to be disclosed.
The Group has adopted this amendment in order to clarify that the chief operational decision makers do not use this as a key decision tool.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires a geographic analysis of non-current assets, and a disclosure of non-current assets by location is therefore shown below.
Operating profit The following table shows a reconciliation of cost by function: 2012 2011 m m Revenue from continuing operations 740.3 724.1 Cost of sales 552.5 510.5 Administrative expenses 99.5 77.8 Acquisition and disposal related costs see note 32 8.2 5.7 Business restructuring and incident costs 11.9 7.2 profit on disposal of business see note 33 10.3 - Impairment of goodwill see note 13 22.5 - Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations see note 14 20.9 24.3 Gain on fair value movements on derivatives see note 24 1.9 2.4 Non-underlying items 51.3 34.8 Operating profit from continuing operations 37.0 101.0 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 69 Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2012 2011 m m Research and development costs customer-funded 34.4 38.4 internally-funded 12.3 8.8 Amortisation arising from business combinations 20.9 24.3 development costs 4.3 2.4 patents and licences 0.3 0.2 Depreciation property, plant and equipment 15.8 16.9 leased assets 0.1 0.3 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3.4 0.5 Operating lease rentals plant and machinery 1.1 1.5 other 0.8 1.0 Government grant - 0.1 Foreign exchange losses 4.1 0.3 Staff costs see note 7 189.8 179.3 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 364.8 341.7 Acquisition and disposal related costs 8.2 5.7 Restructuring and incident costs 11.9 7.2 profit on disposal of business see note 33 10.3 - Impairment of goodwill 22.5 - Auditors remuneration see below 1.2 1.3 A more detailed analysis of auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below: 2012 2011 Auditors remuneration: m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for: The audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.4 0.4 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.4 0.8 0.8 Other services: Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Tax services compliance 0.1 0.1 Tax services advisory 0.2 0.2 Corporate finance services - 0.1 0.4 0.5 1.2 1.3 Included in the Group audit fees is 0.1 million 2011: 0.1 million paid in respect of the parent company.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the statement on corporate governance on page 50, and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
During the year the Group incurred professional fees with other accountancy rms for the provision of corporate finance services of 1.0 million 2011: 0.4 million.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 70 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements 7.
Staff costs The average monthly number of employees within each category including executive directors was: 2012 2011 Number Number Production 3,332 3,445 Administration, sales and marketing 883 847 4,215 4,292 At the year end the number of employees was 4,193 2011: 4,679.
The costs incurred in respect of these employees including share-based payments were: 2012 2011 m m Wages and salaries 160.3 150.9 Social security costs 21.9 20.6 Other pension costs 7.6 7.8 189.8 179.3 There has been an increase in wages and salaries expense since 2011, despite a slight fall in average staff numbers.
This is largely due to the acquisition of Chemring Detection Systems part way through the prior year.
This company has higher than average staff costs compared to the Group as a whole, increasing average wages and salaries accordingly for the second half of 2011 and all of 2012.
Finance expense 2012 2011 m m Bank overdraft and loan interest 4.0 1.6 Loan notes interest 15.1 15.5 Medium term loan interest 1.0 0.5 Finance lease interest 0.3 0.4 Amortisation of debt finance costs 1.6 1.5 Unwinding of discount on provisions see note 25 0.2 0.3 Interest cost of retirement benefit obligations see note 34 0.8 0.7 Capitalised interest on qualifying assets see note 15 4.6 4.7 18.4 15.8 Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate of 7% 2011: 7% to expenditure on such assets.
Tax 2012 2011 m m Current tax charge 5.7 12.5 Deferred tax credit charge see note 26 0.1 2.9 Current year tax charge for continuing operations 5.6 15.4 The tax charge relating to discontinued operations amounted to 0.5 million 2011: 1.5 million.
Income tax in the UK is calculated at 24.9% 2011: 26.8% of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Tax for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 71 The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the income statement as follows: 2012 2011 m m profit before tax for the year for continuing operations 18.8 85.4 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 24.9% 2011: 26.8% 4.7 22.9 Expenses not deductable income not chargeable for tax purposes 2.5 1.0 Changes in tax rates 2.1 2.1 Research and development tax relief 1.3 1.2 Utilisation and recognition of tax losses 3.0 5.1 Non-taxable disposal of subsidiaries 5.2 - Prior period adjustment 3.5 - Overseas profits taxed at rates different to the UK standard rate 7.5 1.9 Total current year tax charge for continuing operations 5.6 15.4 In addition to the income tax expense charged to the income statement, a tax credit of 1.4 million 2011: tax credit of 1.4 million has been recognised in equity in the year.
The effective rate of tax incurred by the Group is 28.4% 2011: 18.6%, and the underlying effective rate of tax incurred by the Group is 21.5% 2011: 22.9%.
The increase in the statutory effective rate since 2011 is a result of the tax treatment of exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
Before acquisition and disposal related costs, business restructuring and incident costs, profit on disposal of business, impairment of goodwill, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and gain on fair value movements on derivatives 11.
Dividends 2012 2011 m m Dividends on ordinary shares of 1p each Final dividend for the year ended 31 October 2011 10.8p 2010: 8.4p 20.8 14.9 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 October 2012 5.3p 2011:4.0p 10.3 7.8 Total dividends 31.1 22.7 The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 October 2012 of 4.2p per share will, if approved, absorb approximately 8.1 million of shareholders funds.
The dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and accordingly has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 72 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements 12.
Earnings per share Earnings per share are based on the average number of shares in issue of 193,309,230 2011: 185,633,996 and profit on continuing ordinary activities after tax of 13.2 million 2011: 70.0 million.
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated using a diluted average number of shares in issue of 195,792,140 2011: 187,636,114 and profit on continuing ordinary activities after tax of 13.2 million 2011: 70.0 million.
The earnings and shares used in the calculations are as follows: From continuing operations 2012 2011 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted m m m m Total profit after tax 13.2 13.2 70.0 70.0 Non-underlying items see reconciliation below 41.8 41.8 22.9 22.9 Underlying profit after tax 55.0 55.0 92.9 92.9 2012 2011 Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Number Number 000s 000s 000s 000s Weighted average number of shares 193,309 193,309 185,634 185,634 Additional shares issuable other than at fair value in respect of options outstanding - 2,483 - 2,002 Weighted average number of shares used for earnings per share 193,309 195,792 185,634 187,636 2012 2011 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted Pence Pence Pence Pence Earnings per share 6.8 6.7 37.7 37.3 Underlying earnings per share 28.5 28.1 50.0 49.5 From continuing and discontinued operations 2012 2011 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted m m m m Total profit after tax 15.3 15.3 73.9 73.9 Non-underlying items see reconciliation below 41.8 41.8 22.9 22.9 Underlying profit after tax 57.1 57.1 96.8 96.8 2012 2011 Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Number Number 000s 000s 000s 000s Weighted average number of shares 193,309 193,309 185,634 185,634 Additional shares issuable other than at fair value in respect of options outstanding - 2,483 - 2,002 Weighted average number of shares used for earnings per share 193,309 195,792 185,634 187,636 2012 2011 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted Pence Pence Pence Pence Earnings per share 7.9 7.8 39.8 39.4 Underlying earnings per share 29.6 29.2 52.1 51.6 Discontinued operations contributed earnings per share of 1.1p 2011: 2.1p.
There is no difference between basic and diluted earnings per share for discontinued operations.
The number of shares in issue differs from the number held by third parties due to the fact that the Company holds its own shares in treasury.
Further information on the treasury shares holding is given in note 29.
Reconciliation from basic earnings to underlying earnings: Underlying basic earnings are dened as earnings before acquisition and disposal related costs, restructuring and incident costs, profit on disposal of business, impairment of goodwill, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and gain on fair value Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 73 movements on derivatives, net of related tax.
The directors consider this measure of earnings allows a more meaningful comparison of earnings trends.
These are set out below: 2012 2011 m m profit after tax 15.3 73.9 Acquisition and disposal related costs 8.2 5.7 Restructuring and incident costs 11.9 7.2 profit on disposal of business 10.3 - Impairment of goodwill 22.5 - Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations 20.9 24.3 Gain on fair value movements on derivatives 1.9 2.4 Tax on non-underlying items 9.5 11.9 Underlying profit after tax 57.1 96.8 13.
Goodwill m Cost At 1 November 2010 231.0 Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings as restated 13.8 Foreign exchange adjustments 1.1 At 31 October 2011 243.7 At 1 November 2011 243.7 fide-recognised on disposal of subsidiary undertakings see note 33 3.7 Foreign exchange adjustments 2.7 At 31 October 2012 237.3 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 November 2010 and 1 November 2011 - Impairment of goodwill 22.5 At 31 October 2012 22.5 Carrying amount At 31 October 2012 214.8 At 31 October 2011 243.7 Additions to goodwill since 1 November 2010 are as follows: m Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. 13.8 At 31 October 2011 and 31 October 2012 13.8 Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The carrying amount of the goodwill has been allocated to the Groups principal CGUs.
An analysis of the pre-tax discount rates used and the goodwill balance after foreign exchange as at 31 October 2012 by principal CGU is shown below: Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 74 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements 13.
Goodwill continued 2012 2011 2012 2011 % % m m Hi-Shear Technology Corporation 14.5 11.6 49.0 48.9 Simmel Difesa S. p. A.
13.8 13.7 44.9 48.2 Roke Manor Research Limited 14.0 2.9 28.3 28.3 Chemring Energetics UK Limited 12.8 11.7 18.1 18.1 Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. 15.7 11.6 15.5 15.4 Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. 16.0 11.6 13.7 13.7 Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. 11.9 11.6 12.9 28.6 Chemring Ordnance, Inc. 14.9 11.8 - 6.8 Other 32.4 35.7 Total goodwill 214.8 243.7 See note 32 The pre-tax discount rate for Roke Manor Research Limited is signicantly higher than the previous year due to the forthcoming change in the presentation of the UK tax treatment of research and development tax credits, and so brings the rate more in line with the other CGUs.
The Group tests goodwill at least annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the CGU are determined from value-in-use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value-in-use are those regarding the discount rates, the growth rates and expected changes to cash ows during the period for which management have detailed plans.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the CGU.
Pre-tax discount rates, derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital of 7.8% 2011: 9.4%, and adjusted for a premium specic to each CGU to account for differences in currency risk, country risk and other factors affecting specic CGUs, have been used to discount projected cash ows.
The calculation has used the Groups forecast gures for the next five years.
At the end of five years, it assumes the performance of the Group companies will grow at a nominal annual rate of 0.5% in perpetuity thereafter.
The growth rates are based on managements view of industry growth forecasts.
Having considered the actual or potential budget cuts in the US and UK, management have revised down forecast growth rates for these markets.
Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
The Group prepares cash ow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next five years, and extrapolates cash ows after that period based on growth as described above.
Following a detailed review, impairment losses have been recognised in relation to Chemring Ordnance, Inc. and Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. at the year end totalling 22.5 million 2011: nil.
The impairment losses recognised in the consolidated income statement, as part of non-underlying items within continuing operating profit, in respect of goodwill are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Chemring Ordnance, Inc. 6.8 - Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. 15.7 - 22.5 - The impairment losses were based on value-in-use calculations and relate only to goodwill.
The impairment charge relates to businesses operating within the Munitions and Pyrotechnics segments, but it is not possible to allocate the impairment charge by segment.
The impairment charges were primarily driven by business valuations that were negatively impacted by lower cash ows within business plans, reecting the challenging economic conditions facing the defence industry within the US.
There is significant headroom within the remaining value-in-use calculations.
Additionally, stress testing has indicated that, with the exception of Hi-Shear Technology Corporation, no reasonably possible change in the key assumptions used would result in a significant impairment charge being recorded in the financial statements.
A 25% fall in the forecast cashows of the US CGUs and a 10% fall for all other CGUs was modelled.
Hi-Shear Technology Corporation would require an impairment charge of up to 20 million in these circumstances, but no impairment would be required for any other CGU in this scenario.
A 2% addition to the discount rate for each CGU was also modelled, and under these circumstances Hi-Shear Technology Corporation would require an impairment charge of up to 12 million.
The remaining CGUs would not require any impairment.
The long term growth rates beyond the end of the forecast five years were also set to zero, but this would not result in a significant impairment charge at any of the CGUs.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 75 14.
Fair values for acquired intangible assets are assessed by reference to future estimated cash ows, discounted at an appropriate rate to present value, or by reference to the amount that would have been paid in an arms length transaction between two knowledgeable and willing parties.
Other intangible assets are recognised at cost and are amortised over their estimated useful lives see note 3.
See note 32 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 76 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements 15.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost or valuation At 1 November 2010 106.8 156.5 263.3 Additions 11.1 37.5 48.6 Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 0.6 2.9 3.5 Disposals 0.6 10.1 10.7 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.5 0.4 0.1 At 1 November 2011 118.4 186.4 304.8 Additions 10.7 23.2 33.9 Disposals 5.0 9.6 14.6 Transfer between categories 1.3 1.3 - Foreign exchange adjustments 3.0 4.3 7.3 At 31 October 2012 122.4 194.4 316.8 Accumulated depreciation At 1 November 2010 10.5 55.3 65.8 Charge for the year 3.2 14.0 17.2 Disposals 0.4 8.5 8.9 Foreign exchange adjustments - 0.4 0.4 At 1 November 2011 13.3 60.4 73.7 Charge for the year 2.7 13.2 15.9 Disposals 2.7 6.4 9.1 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.9 2.8 3.7 At 31 October 2012 12.4 64.4 76.8 Carrying amount At 31 October 2012 110.0 130.0 240.0 At 31 October 2011 105.1 126.0 231.1 The carrying amount of the Groups plant and equipment includes an amount of 6.0 million 2011: 6.1 million in respect of assets held under finance leases.
4.6 million 2011: 4.7 million of interest has been capitalised see note 9 in the year, bringing the cumulative capitalised cost to 11.9 million 2011: 7.3 million since 1 November 2008.
In the year, 0.1 million 2011: 0.1 million has been charged as depreciation on completion of the relevant projects.
This results in a net book value for capitalised interest of 11.7 million 2011: 7.2 million.
Land and buildings were revalued at 30 September 1997 by Chestertons Chartered Surveyors, independent valuers not connected with the Group, on the basis of depreciated replacement cost for two pyrotechnic sites, and on open market for the remainder.
2012 2011 m m 30 September 1997 depreciated replacement cost 5.8 5.8 Freehold at cost 116.6 112.6 122.4 118.4 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 77 If stated under historical cost principles the comparable amounts for the total of land and buildings would be: 2012 2011 m m Cost 120.4 116.4 Accumulated depreciation 11.7 12.7 Historical cost value 108.7 103.7 All other tangible xed assets are stated at historical cost.
The total amount of additions during 2012 33.9 million, as shown above is different to the gure of 30.1 million shown in the cash ow statement, due to the application of IAS 23 Borrowing Costs and the timing of payments.
At 31 October 2012, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to 6.9 million 2011: 14.6 million.
The decline since 2011 is due to two major investment programmes for new countermeasures facilities at Salisbury, UK and Lara, Australia nearing completion.
These two facilities accounted for 1.8 million of expenditure in 2012 2011: 10.5 million.
Subsidiary undertakings All subsidiary undertakings have been included in the consolidation.
The undertakings held at 31 October 2012 which, in the opinion of the directors, principally affected the results for the year or the net assets of the Group, are shown below.
Country of incorporation % of issued ordinary or registration share capital controlled Subsidiary undertaking and operation by Chemring Group PLC Activity Chemring Countermeasures Ltd England 100 Countermeasures Chemring Defence UK Ltd England 100 Counter-IED Pyrotechnics Chemring EOD Ltd England 100 Counter-IED Chemring Prime Contracts Ltd England 100 Munitions Roke Manor Research Ltd England 100 Counter-IED Countermeasures Chemring Energetics UK Ltd Scotland 100 Counter-IED Munitions Pyrotechnics Chemring Defence Germany GmbH Germany 100 Counter-IED Pyrotechnics Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. USA 100 Countermeasures Kilgore Flares Company LLC USA 100 Countermeasures Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. USA 100 Munitions Pyrotechnics Chemring Ordnance, Inc. USA 100 Munitions Pyrotechnics Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. USA 100 Counter-IED Hi-Shear Technology Corporation USA 100 Pyrotechnics Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. USA 100 Counter-IED Chemring Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 Counter-IED Countermeasures Munitions Pyrotechnics Simmel Difesa S. p. A. Italy 100 Counter-IED Munitions Pyrotechnics Chemring Nobel AS Norway 100 Munitions Mecar S. A. Belgium 100 Munitions Associated undertaking CIRRA S. A. France 49 Countermeasures Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 78 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements 17.
Interest in associate 2012 2011 m m Interest in associate 1.4 1.5 Amounts relating to associate: 2012 2011 m m Non-current assets 0.2 0.5 Current assets 1.3 1.3 Current liabilities 0.5 0.7 Net assets 1.0 1.1 Groups share of net assets 0.5 0.6 2012 2011 m m Total revenue 1.8 1.9 profit after tax 0.2 0.2 Groups share of profit of associate 0.1 0.1 The results of the associated undertaking for the year ended 30 September 2012 relate to the Groups share of CIRRA S. A. CIRRA S. A. s financial year ended on 30 September 2012 and there is no material difference between the results as reported and those that would be obtained were CIRRA S. A. to have a year ending on 31 October 2012.
Inventories 2012 2011 m m Raw materials 44.1 49.1 Work in progress 49.1 70.8 Finished goods 20.6 26.9 113.8 146.8 The decline in the value of inventories since 2011 is primarily due to the increased use of contract accounting and the corresponding increase in the value of contract receivable balances.
There are no significant differences between the replacement costs and the fair values shown above.
Trade and other receivables 2012 2011 m m Current Trade receivables 92.7 110.4 Allowance for doubtful debts 1.8 1.4 90.9 109.0 Contract receivables 87.6 55.1 Other debtors 6.1 13.4 Prepayments and accrued income 8.4 13.3 193.0 190.8 All amounts shown above are due within one year.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 79 The average credit period taken on sales of goods, based on a countback basis, is 25 days 2011: 29 days.
No interest is charged on the receivables from the date of invoice to payment.
The Groups policy is to provide in full for debtors greater than 120 days beyond agreed terms, unless extenuating circumstances exist.
Due to the nature of the customer base, the Group does not experience significant bad debt write-offs.
The decrease in the year in trade receivables is due to a lower level of sales in the final month of the year compared to 2011.
The reduction in the average credit period was due to the timing of invoicing and cash receipts at the end of the current financial year.
An ageing analysis has not been shown, as all significant overdue receivables are covered by the allowance for doubtful debts provision above.
The vast majority of the trade debtor balance was not yet due at the year end based on the average credit terms provided to customers.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair values.
Cash and cash equivalents Bank balances and cash comprise cash held by the Group and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
Included within cash is 4.5 million of restricted cash 2011: 0.4 million.
Borrowings 2012 2011 m m Bank loans and overdrafts sterling denominated 31.2 35.6 euro denominated 40.2 45.9 US dollar denominated 0.2 - Other loans due in less than one year euro denominated 2.4 4.5 Borrowings due within one year 74.0 86.0 UK medium term bank loans sterling denominated 0.7 1.0 Overseas medium term bank loans US dollar denominated 0.2 0.2 Other loans euro denominated - 0.7 Loan notes sterling denominated 12.5 12.5 US dollar denominated 248.7 247.7 Borrowings due after more than one year 262.1 262.1 Finance leases 4.6 6.4 Preference shares 0.1 0.1 340.8 354.6 Analysis of total borrowings by currency: 2012 2011 m m Sterling 49.1 54.7 US dollar 249.1 248.8 Euro 42.6 51.1 Total 340.8 354.6 The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows: 2012 2011 % % Bank overdrafts 2.5 4.6 UK medium term bank loans sterling denominated 3.2 4.6 euro denominated 5.7 5.0 other denominated - 5.5 Overseas medium term bank loans US dollar denominated 2.7 4.2 Other loans euro denominated 2.9 5.0 Loan notes sterling denominated 6.8 6.8 US dollar denominated 5.3 6.3 5.3 6.3 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 80 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements 21.
Borrowings continued 2012 2011 Bank Bank loans and Loan Other loans and Loan Other overdrafts notes loans Total overdrafts notes loans Total m m m m m m m m Borrowings falling due within: One year 71.6 - 4.1 75.7 81.5 - 6.5 88.0 Borrowings falling due within: One to two years 0.6 - 1.6 2.2 0.5 - 2.6 3.1 Two to five years 0.3 47.4 1.3 49.0 0.7 - 2.5 3.2 After five years - 213.8 0.1 213.9 - 260.2 0.1 260.3 0.9 261.2 3.0 265.1 1.2 260.2 5.2 266.6 Total borrowings 72.5 261.2 7.1 340.8 82.7 260.2 11.7 354.6 Includes finance leases and preference shares In January 2011, the Group completed a renancing of its bank facilities with a syndicate of five banks.
The new Group facilities, which are unsecured, total 230 million.
In addition, the term of the facilities was extended from April 2012 to April 2015, with an option to extend for twelve months.
This revolving credit facility provides access to committed lending and bonding line support.
None of the borrowings in the current or the prior year were secured.
Other loans represent loans held by certain Group companies to fund working capital.
The directors do not believe the fair value of the Groups borrowings to be materially different to the book values.
There have been no breaches of the terms of the loan agreements or defaults during the current or previous year.
The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities in various currencies available in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met.
These facilities are at oating interest rates.
2012 2011 m m Total undrawn borrowings 143.9 150.1 The Group is subject to two key financial covenants which are tested quarterly, relating to the ratio between underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation underlying EBITDA and debt debt ratio, and the ratio between underlying EBITDA and finance costs interest cover.
The revolving credit facility and the loan note agreements have different covenant compliance calculations and have therefore been separated out below the primary difference being that the revolving credit facility uses consolidated net debt in the calculation, whereas the loan note agreements require consolidated total debt to be used.
The Group complied with both these covenants throughout the year, and the position at the year end is detailed below: 2012 2011 Covenant ratio revolving credit facility Maximum allowed ratio of net debt to underlying EBITDA 3.0 3.0 Actual ratio of net debt to underlying EBITDA 2.1 1.6 Minimum allowed ratio of underlying EBITDA to finance costs 4.0 4.0 Actual ratio of underlying EBITDA to finance costs 6.7 9.5 Covenant ratio loan note agreements Maximum allowed ratio of consolidated total debt to underlying EBITDA 3.0 3.0 Actual ratio of consolidated total debt to underlying EBITDA 2.8 2.1 Minimum allowed ratio of underlying EBITDA to finance costs 3.5 3.5 Actual ratio of underlying EBITDA to finance costs 6.9 10.4 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 81 22.
Obligations under finance leases Minimum lease Present value of minimum payments lease payments 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 1.9 2.3 1.7 2.0 In the second to fifth years 3.2 4.7 2.9 4.4 Less future finance charges 0.5 0.6 - - Present value of lease obligations 4.6 6.4 4.6 6.4 Less amounts due within twelve months shown under current liabilities 1.7 2.0 Amount due for settlement after twelve months 2.9 4.4 Finance lease obligations attract interest rates of between 2% and 3% above base rate.
Lease obligations are denominated in sterling and US dollars.
The fair value of the Groups leases approximates to their carrying amounts.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors title to the underlying leased assets see note 15.
Trade and other payables 2012 2011 m m Current Trade payables 100.2 105.3 Other payables 38.7 33.5 Other tax and Social Security 5.3 4.0 Advance payments 11.7 48.7 Accruals and deferred income 45.6 20.9 201.5 212.4 Non-current Other payables 4.3 1.2 Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
Advance payments are amounts received from customers on larger contracts to fund working capital.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of payables approximates to their fair value.
The average credit period taken on purchases of goods is 40 days 2011: 49 days.
No interest is charged on the payables from the date of invoice to payment.
Financial instruments and risk management The Group uses financial instruments to manage financial risk wherever it is appropriate to do so.
The main risks addressed by the financial instruments of the Group are interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups policies in respect of the management of these risks, which remained unchanged throughout the year, were as follows.
The Groups multi-national activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, including: Forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange structures to manage the exchange risk arising from transactional foreign exchange exposures within the Group.
Interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of the movement in interest rates.
Foreign currency risk management The Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies.
Hence, exposures to exchange rate uctuations arise.
Foreign currency exchange risk can be subdivided into two components, transactional risk and translation risk: Transactional risk: The Group policy is to hedge significant transactional currency exposures via the use of forward foreign exchange contracts and structures.
The measurement and control of this risk is closely monitored on a Group-wide basis.
Translation risk: The Group translates overseas results and net assets in accordance with the accounting policy in note 3.
The translation risk on net assets is mitigated by the transfer of currencies between Group companies and the appropriate use of foreign currency borrowings.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 82 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements 24.
Financial instruments and risk management continued The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the year end were as follows: 2012 2011 US$ Euro NOK AUS$ US$ Euro NOK AUS$ Monetary assets million 104.4 80.0 53.3 2.6 143.9 108.3 44.6 8.4 Monetary liabilities million 484.6 128.1 30.2 5.4 466.6 106.8 11.1 3.7 Foreign currency denominated net assets are partially hedged by currency borrowings.
The borrowings detailed below were designated as hedging instruments in net investment hedges.
2012 2011 US$ Euro NOK AUS$ US$ Euro NOK AUS$ Borrowings million 405.0 50.0 - - 405.0 53.1 - - The Group uses foreign exchange contracts to hedge its currency risk, most with a maturity of less than one year from the year end.
The most significant exchange rates to manage, as far as the Group is concerned, are the US dollar and Euro exchange rates.
The following table details the forward foreign currency contracts for sales of foreign currencies outstanding as at 31 October: Average exchange rate Expiring within one year 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m US dollar 1.54 1.56 12.2 48.5 At the year end, there were four US dollar structures in place which were set up to protect the income statement from currency uctuations during 2012 and so provide an economic hedge.
The structure involves a cap and a collar, which lock in the exchange rates to give the Group the appropriate protection against transactional ows.
Hedge accounting was not adopted for this structure.
The principal amounts of the Groups Euro bank loans and loan notes have been accounted for as net investment hedges on the European and US businesses.
These hedges are effective throughout the year and the losses arising on translation have been offset against the gains on re-translation of the subsidiaries in reserves.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The following table details the Groups sensitivity to a 10 cents movement in the relevant foreign currencies against sterling with regards to its monetary assets and liabilities.
10 cents represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the year end for a 10 cents change in foreign currency rates.
10 cents - 10 cents US dollar impact Euro impact US dollar impact Euro impact 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m m m m m Gain loss 15.8 10.1 2.9 0.6 17.8 11.4 3.4 0.7 Other equity 15.8 10.1 2.9 0.6 17.8 11.4 3.4 0.7 The potential gains or losses arising from these movements in exchange rates would partly result in foreign exchange movements in the income statement and partly through movements directly through reserves.
The Groups sensitivity to foreign currency increased during the year, mainly due to the movements in working capital at the US and European subsidiaries.
Interest rate risk The Group nances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, bank and loan note borrowings, and leasing lines of credit.
The Groups policy is to be no more than 75% xed interest on a gross debt level.
The UK borrowings are denominated in sterling, Euro and US dollar, and at the shorter end are subject to oating rates of interest.
The Group has entered into a oating to xed interest rate swap for 50 million of Euro borrowings at a weighted average rate of 3.84%.
The Group has outstanding xed interest loan notes in the US, repayable in full in November 2016 $80 million, November 2017 12.5 million and $125 million and November 2019 $200 million.
This arrangement provides a natural hedge against the Groups investment structure in its US businesses.
During the year, the Group entered into a xed to oating interest rate swap for $80 million of US dollar loan notes at a weighted average rate of 4.24%.
This ensured that the Group remained within its interest rate risk policy.
As the Group has predominantly xed interest rate loans, a change in interest rates would not have an immediate significant impact on the income statement.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 83 Liquidity risk The table below details the maturity proles of the Groups derivative financial instruments and loans excluding finance leases, preference shares and capitalised facility fees as at 31 October: 2012 2011 Derivative Derivative Loans and Derivative Derivative Loans and payables receivables overdrafts Total payables receivables overdrafts Total m m m m m m m m Falling due within: One year 12.2 12.8 77.1 76.5 48.5 49.9 90.1 88.7 One to two years 11.5 12.1 0.6 - 18.7 19.5 1.3 0.5 Two to five years 9.9 10.3 49.9 49.5 - - 0.7 0.7 After five years - - 214.2 214.2 - - 263.4 263.4 33.6 35.2 341.8 340.2 67.2 69.4 355.5 353.3 The prole of the Groups financial assets and liabilities is as follows: 2012 2011 Financial assets Total Total m m Sterling 62.9 81.3 US dollar 106.6 69.7 Australian dollar 4.9 6.2 Euro 111.0 98.3 Other currencies 5.6 5.0 291.0 260.5 Overdraft offset in the UK 15.5 2.6 Financial assets 275.5 257.9 Cash at bank and in hand 96.0 91.9 Trade receivables 90.9 109.0 Contract receivables 87.6 55.1 Financial instruments 1.0 1.9 275.5 257.9 Cash balances held in the UK enjoy a right of interest offset against overdraft balances.
Overseas cash balances have a weighted average interest rate of 0.1% 2011: 0.1% and are at a oating rate.
The foreign currency balances mostly sit within overseas business units, and therefore do not result in significant exposure to transactional risks for the Group.
Included within cash is 4.5 million of restricted cash 2011: 0.4 million see note 20.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 84 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements 24.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Financial liabilities 2012 2011 Floating rate Fixed rate Total Floating rate Fixed rate Total m m m m m m Sterling 30.9 70.9 101.8 40.1 52.1 92.2 US dollar 49.9 248.5 298.4 3.7 295.7 299.4 Euro 2.4 100.3 102.7 5.2 88.0 93.2 Other currencies - 5.3 5.3 - 4.7 4.7 83.2 425.0 508.2 49.0 440.5 489.5 Overdraft offset in the UK 15.5 2.6 Financial liabilities 492.7 486.9 Bank loans and overdrafts 71.6 81.5 UK medium term loans 0.7 1.0 Loan notes 261.2 260.2 Overseas medium term loans 0.2 0.2 Other loans 2.4 5.2 336.1 348.1 Preference shares see note 27 0.1 0.1 Obligations under finance leases 4.6 6.4 340.8 354.6 Trade payables due within one year 100.2 105.3 Accruals 44.8 19.9 Financial instruments due within one year 0.1 1.5 Trade payables due after more than one year 4.3 1.2 Financial instruments due after more than one year 2.5 4.4 492.7 486.9 A right of offset exists for currency amounts held within the UK by Barclays Bank PLC.
These are used to offset the interest charged on any UK overdraft.
The weighted average interest rate of xed rate financial liabilities at 31 October 2012 was 5.4% 2011: 5.1% and the weighted average period of funding was four years 2011: five years.
Derivative financial instruments The Group has two interest rate structures, one from oating to xed rate that expires in April 2015 at a rate of 3.84%, and one from xed to oating rate that expires on 12 May 2015 at a rate of 4.04%.
The fair value of interest rate swaps recognised on the balance sheet at 31 October 2012 was a 2.4 million liability 2011: 4.2 million liability.
The Group also has two forward exchange structures with a fair value of 0.2 million liability 2011: 1.7 million liability and 1.0 million asset 2011: 1.9 million asset.
The total of these financial instruments is a 1.6 million liability 2011: 4.0 million liability.
The following table details the fair value of derivative financial instruments recognised in the balance sheet at 31 October: 2012 2011 Total Total m m Interest rate swaps 2.4 4.2 Forward exchange contracts 0.8 0.2 1.6 4.0 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 85 Analysed as: 2012 2011 Total Total m m Included in current assets 1.0 1.9 Included in current liabilities 0.1 1.5 Included in non-current liabilities 2.5 4.4 1.6 4.0 The following table details the gain on fair value movements on derivatives recognised in the income statement: 2012 2011 Total Total m m Change in fair value of currency structures 1.9 2.4 Fair value hierarchy IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires companies that carry financial instruments at fair value in the balance sheet to disclose their level of visibility, determining into which category those financial instruments fall under the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value measurement hierarchy is as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data i. e. as unobservable inputs.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value: 2012 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Total m m m m m m Assets Forward exchange contracts - 1.0 1.0 - 1.9 1.9 Total assets - 1.0 1.0 - 1.9 1.9 2012 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Total m m m m m m Liabilities Borrowings 71.4 261.2 332.6 80.8 273.8 354.6 Interest rate swaps - 2.4 2.4 - 4.2 4.2 Forward exchange contracts - 0.2 0.2 - 1.7 1.7 Total liabilities 71.4 263.8 335.2 80.8 279.7 360.5 There were no assets or liabilities that were classed under Level 3 on the fair value hierarchy.
Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, and trade and other receivables, which represent the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
Whilst the Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty, the credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is monitored on an ongoing basis using credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies, the credit default swap market and market capitalisation.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, based on prior experience and an assessment of the current economic environment.
Trade receivables are attributable to a small number of customers spread across diverse geographical areas.
Customers are mainly multi-national organisations or government agencies with whom the Group has long term business relationships.
The Group principally does business with government defence departments, such as the US Department of Defense, the UK Ministry of Defence and the KSA Ministry of Defence and Aviation, as well as US and UK defence prime contractors such as Lockheed Martin, BAE Systems and General Dynamics.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 86 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements 24.
Financial instruments and risk management continued The counterparties are monitored on an ongoing basis for credit risk, and as at the balance sheet date the risk was deemed to be low.
Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable and, when appropriate, action is taken to minimise the credit risk to the Group.
The Groups accounting policies and control procedures require letters of credit to be put in place for the majority of contracts with overseas customers.
Any departures from this policy require approval by the Group finance function.
The Groups price risk is primarily in relation to the cost of raw materials and is not considered significant.
Price risk is managed through negotiations with suppliers and, where appropriate, the agreement of xed price supply contracts.
Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Board monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on capital.
From time to time, the Group purchases its own shares on the market: the timing of these purchases depends on the market prices.
Primarily, the shares are intended to be used for satisfying awards under the Groups share-based incentive schemes.
Buy and sell decisions are made on a specic transaction basis by the Board.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Provisions Legal Environmental Warranty Restructuring Other provision provisions provisions provisions provisions Total m m m m m m At 1 November 2011 - 2.7 1.0 1.2 - 4.9 Unwinding of discount charged to interest - 0.2 - - - 0.2 Provided for in the year 1.4 0.1 2.7 2.2 1.4 7.8 Effect of foreign exchange movements - 0.3 0.1 - - 0.4 Paid released in the year - 1.2 1.6 2.0 - 4.8 At 31 October 2012 1.4 1.5 2.0 1.4 1.4 7.7 Analysed as: 2012 2011 m m Included in current liabilities 2.8 2.5 Included in non-current liabilities 4.9 2.4 7.7 4.9 The legal provision at 31 October 2012 represents managements best estimate of the legal liabilities faced by the Group as at the balance sheet date.
At the year end, a third party assessment was carried out of the provision held in respect of the environmental liabilities associated with the Chemring Energetic Devices site in Illinois, USA.
The majority of the provision is expected to be utilised within the next year, with the balance due in future years.
The warranty provisions at 31 October 2012 represent managements best estimate of the Groups liability, based on past experience for defective products.
The restructuring provisions at 31 October 2012 relate to Chemring Countermeasures Limited, Chemring EOD Limited, Chemring Energetics UK Limited and Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc..
The provisions represent managements best estimates of the costs to be incurred on the restructuring programmes during 2013.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 87 26.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the year.
Accelerated tax Retirement benefit Acquired depreciation obligations Tax losses intangibles Other Total m m m m m m At 1 November 2010 13.6 6.4 2.5 32.0 1.6 35.1 Charge credit to income 5.3 0.4 6.1 8.2 11.5 2.9 Credit to equity - 0.4 - 0.3 - 0.7 At 1 November 2011 18.9 6.4 8.6 23.5 9.9 37.3 Credit charge to income 0.9 0.9 4.5 5.9 1.3 0.1 Credit charge to equity 0.3 0.7 - 0.7 0.3 1.4 At 31 October 2012 17.7 6.2 4.1 16.9 11.5 35.8 The Finance Act 2012, which provides for a reduction in the main rate of corporation tax from 25% to 23%, effective from 1 April 2013, was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012.
The impact of the rate reduction has been reected in the calculation of the UK deferred tax liability provided at 31 October 2012.
Therefore, a credit of 2.1 million has been included within the deferred tax charge for the year.
The UK Government has also indicated that it intends to enact a future reduction in the main tax rate of 2% down to 21% on 1 April 2014.
The future 2% main tax rate reduction is expected to have a similar impact on the Groups financial statements as outlined above, subject to the impact of other developments in the Groups tax position which may reduce the beneficial effect of this in the tax rate.
As this reduction in the UK corporate tax rate has not been substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, this is considered a non-adjusting event in accordance with IAS 10 Events After the Reporting Period and no adjustments have been made.
The impact of this and any further reduction will be taken into account at subsequent reporting dates, once the change has been substantively enacted.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
Deferred tax balances after offset, for balance sheet purposes, are analysed as follows: 2012 2011 m m Deferred tax liabilities 52.7 59.0 Deferred tax assets 16.9 21.7 35.8 37.3 At the balance sheet date, the Group had unrecognised tax losses of 43.1 million 2011: 53.0 million potentially available for offset against future profits in certain circumstances, with the majority arising from recent acquisitions.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this amount because of the unpredictability of short term future taxable qualifying profit streams.
Share capital 2012 2011 m m Issued and fully paid 195,491,341 2011: 195,476,434 ordinary shares of 1p each 2.0 2.0 14,907 ordinary shares 2011: 127,996 were issued under the Groups savings-related share schemes during the year.
The Companys share capital also includes 62,500 7% cumulative preference shares of 1 each, which are all issued and fully paid-up, and are classied for accounting purposes within non-current liabilities.
The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement to a dividend at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable in equal instalments on 30 April and 31 October each year.
Holders of the preference shares have the right on winding-up to receive, in priority to any other classes of shares, the sum of 1 per share together with any arrears of dividends.
Reserves The share premium account, the special capital reserve and the revaluation reserve are not distributable.
Included within retained earnings are 1.3 million of retained profits 2011: 1.2 million relating to the associated undertaking and 0.8 million 2011: 0.1 million of the Companys own shares held by the Groups ESOP trustee.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 88 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements 29.
Own shares 2012 2011 m m Balance at 1 November 2011 6.6 7.2 Acquired in the year 4.8 1.5 Issued in the year to satisfy employee share awards 1.8 2.1 Balance at 31 October 2012 9.6 6.6 The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Chemring Group PLC purchased in the market and held by the Group to satisfy awards under the Groups share-based incentive schemes see note 31.
During the year, 1,215,000 2011: 300,000 ordinary shares were acquired, and 359,331 2011: 456,855 ordinary shares were distributed following the vesting of awards under the Chemring Group Performance Share Plan.
The total number of ordinary shares held in treasury at 31 October 2012 was 2,198,814 2011: 1,343,145, with an average cost of 4.39 2011: 4.89 per share.
This represents 1.1% of the total issued and fully-paid ordinary share capital.
Obligations under non-cancellable operating leases 2012 2011 m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in the income statement in the year 1.9 2.5 At the balance sheet date the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2012 2011 m m Within one year 3.7 4.0 Two to five years 7.0 10.8 10.7 14.8 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group.
Leases are negotiated for an average term of three years and rentals are xed for the lease period, with an option to extend for a further period at the then prevailing market rate.
Share-based payments The Group operates share-based compensation arrangements to provide incentives to the Groups senior management and other eligible employees.
The Group recognised a net charge of 0.1 million 2011: 0.2 million in respect of share-based payment transactions during the year.
Details of the three schemes which operated during the year are as follows: The Chemring Group Performance Share Plan the PSP Under the PSP, conditional awards of ordinary shares are made at nil cost.
Awards ordinarily vest on the third anniversary of the award date.
The scheme commenced in March 2006.
Number of conditional shares awarded 2012 2011 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,792,977 1,741,095 Awarded during the year 1,785,720 711,212 Vested during the year 359,331 456,855 Lapsed during the year 987,973 202,475 Outstanding at the end of the year 2,231,393 1,792,977 Subject to vesting at the end of the year - - Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 89 The following awards were outstanding at 31 October 2012: Date of award Number of ordinary shares Vesting price Date when awards under award per share will vest 20 Jan 2010 318,380 Nil 20 Jan 2013 19 Jan 2011 453,360 Nil 19 Jan 2014 24 Oct 2011 17,492 Nil 24 Oct 2014 27 Jan 2012 1,442,161 Nil 27 Jan 2015 The Group has applied a discount to the share-based payment, to reect the anticipated achievement of the stipulated targets for each PSP award, based on the predicted gures within the Groups five year plan as well as the expected number of leavers over the life of the PSP awards.
As there is no option element the share price is discounted based on the following assumptions: dividend growth at 2p per annum 2011: growth at 2p per annum : weighted average cost of capital 7.8% 2011: 9.4%.
The weighted average fair value of awards made during the year was 333p 2011: 607p.
The closing share prices on the dates of vesting of awards in the year were 368.5p, 274.4p and 289.3p 2011: 666.6p.
The compensation expense recognised in respect of share options is based on their fair value at the grant date.
The Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan the UK Sharesave Plan Options were granted during the year on 30 July 2012.
The weighted average fair value of options exercised in the year was 83p 2011: 85p.
The weighted average share price on exercise of the options during the year was 365p 2011: 610p.
The fair values of the share options in the UK Sharesave Plan are based on the difference between the exercise price and the share price on the grant date of the option.
The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase Plan the US Stock Purchase Plan Options were granted during the year on 30 July 2012.
This plan provides US employees with the opportunity to share in the future success of the Group and mirrors the UK Sharesave Plan, subject to certain legal and tax differences due to the differing jurisdictions.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 90 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements 31.
Share-based payments continued 2012 2011 Number of Weighted average Number of Weighted average share options exercise price share options exercise price Pence Pence Outstanding at the beginning of the year 92,790 491 114,355 423 Granted during the year 82,738 244 40,635 481 Exercised during the year 792 499 42,111 348 Lapsed during the year 59,130 496 20,089 385 Outstanding at the end of the year 115,606 311 92,790 491 Subject to exercise at the end of the year -- -- The following options were outstanding at 31 October 2012: Date of grant Number of ordinary shares Exercise price Dates between which under option per share options may be exercised 29 Jul 2011 32,868 4.81 29 Jul 2013 28 Oct 2013 30 Jul 2012 82,738 2.44 30 Jul 2014 29 Oct 2014 The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year was 46p 2011: 69p.
The weighted average fair value of options exercised in the year was 79p 2011: 80p.
The weighted average share price on exercise of the options during the year was 365p 2011: 610p The fair values of the share options in the US Stock Purchase Plan are based on the difference between the exercise price and the share price on the date of grant of the option.
Acquisitions No acquisitions were made during the year.
At the start of the year, the initial measurement period was incomplete for the acquisition of Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. which was completed during the previous year.
During the twelve months following purchase, a reassessment to reduce the value of acquired intangible non-current assets by 0.3 million was made, with a corresponding increase in the value of goodwill.
The balance sheet as at 31 October 2011 has been restated to reect this change in accordance with IFRS 3 revised 2008.
Acquisition and disposal related costs No acquisitions were made during the year but as a result of ongoing mergers, disposals and acquisitions activity and acquisitions in prior years, acquisition and disposal related costs of 8.2 million 2011: 5.7 million have been recognised in the income statement as non-underlying items, in accordance with IFRS 3 revised 2008.
0.1 0.2 Roke Manor Research Limited - 0.2 Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. 0.8 2.5 Aborted acquisitions 0.6 0.9 Fees related to a third party approach for the Group 3.7 - Joint ventures and other acquisition related costs 3.0 1.9 Total acquisition and disposal related costs 8.2 5.7 This gure differs from the cash ow gure arising from acquisition related costs of 5.5 million, due to 2.7 million of acquisition related costs remaining within creditors at the year end.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 91 33.
Discontinued operations The results of the discontinued operations for the year, or to the date of disposal, which have been included in the consolidated income statement, were as follows: 2012 2011 m m Revenue 15.1 21.2 Operating profit 3.1 6.0 Finance expense 0.5 0.6 Tax 0.5 1.5 profit after tax for the year 2.1 3.9 Cash ows from discontinued operations 2012 2011 m m Net cash received from operating activities 3.3 5.2 Net cash used on nancing activities 0.5 0.6 Total 2.8 4.6 On 31 July 2012, the Group completed the disposal of its marine interests to Drew Marine for 30.4 million.
This gure is less than the 32.0 million previously reported, due to a working capital adjustment determined at the completion date.
The marine business included operations in four jurisdictions, and restructuring of each individual business was required in order to facilitate a sale.
This involved separating the German manufacturing facility into two for the retained defence business and the marine business, together with a carve-out from the Groups defence businesses in Spain and Australia.
The profit on disposal of the marine interests was 10.3 million see note 5.
The net assets of the marine interests at the date of disposal were as follows: m Property, plant and equipment 1.2 Inventories 4.5 Trade receivables 6.0 Bank balances and cash 3.5 Trade payables 2.7 Other payables 1.7 Provisions 0.7 Remove bank balances and cash 3.5 Attributable goodwill 3.7 Attributable disposal costs 9.8 20.1 profit on disposal 10.3 Total consideration 30.4 satisfied by: Cash and cash equivalents 32.0 Deferred working capital adjustment 1.6 30.4 Net cash inow arising on disposal: Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 32.0 Less: Cash and cash equivalents disposed of 3.5 Payments for attributable disposal costs 6.7 21.8 The deferred working capital adjustment was settled in cash by the Group in December 2012.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 92 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements 34.
Pensions Within the UK, the Group operates a dened benefit scheme the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme.
In Germany, Chemring Defence Germany GmbH operates a dened benefit scheme the Chemring Defence Germany Scheme and in Norway, Chemring Nobel AS operates a dened benefit scheme the Chemring Nobel Scheme.
The other UK and overseas arrangements are all dened contribution schemes with a combined cost of 6.6 million 2011: 6.6 million.
The Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme is a funded scheme and the assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee administered fund.
The scheme was closed to future accrual on 6 April 2012.
A full actuarial valuation for the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme as at 6 April 2009 has been prepared and updated to 31 October 2012 by a qualied actuary, using the projected unit credit method.
The main assumptions for the scheme are detailed below.
Under the funding plan agreed with the trustees following the 2009 actuarial valuation, the Company agreed to eliminate the deficit calculated at that time over a period of 9.75 years.
The Company and the trustees monitor funding levels annually, and a new funding plan is agreed with the trustees every three years, based on actuarial valuations.
The scheme triennial valuation at 6 April 2012 is currently being progressed and is expected to be signed-off in the coming months.
The Group considers that the current contribution rates agreed with the trustees are sufficient to eliminate the calculated deficit over the agreed period.
The Group has provided a bank guarantee and letters of credit totalling 27.2 million 2011: 27.2 million to the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme.
A 20 million letter of credit may be drawn by the scheme trustees in June 2014, subject to the size of the deficit of the scheme at April 2014.
The remaining 7.2 million bank guarantee may only be drawn upon certain events of default by the Company.
On 31 July 2012, the disposal of the UK marine business triggered a statutory debt of 1.6 million to the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme under Sections 75 and 75A of the Pensions Act 1995.
The debt was settled in full by the Group on 22 August 2012.
The Chemring Defence Germany Scheme is an unfunded scheme.
The actuarial liability has been calculated at 31 October 2012 by a qualied actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The main assumptions used were a discount rate of 5.07%, ination rate of 1.8% and rate of increase in deferred pensions of nil%.
The net deficit of the Chemring Defence Germany Scheme was 0.8 million at 31 October 2012 2011: 1.3 million.
The Chemring Nobel Scheme is an unfunded scheme.
The main assumptions used were a discount rate of 2.2%, ination rate of 2.75% and rate of increase in deferred pensions of 2.25%.
The net deficit of the Chemring Nobel Scheme was 0.3 million at 31 October 2012 2011: 0.2 million.
The amount recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Groups dened benefit schemes is as follows: 2012 2011 2010 m m m Present value of funded and unfunded obligations 71.6 65.2 61.9 Fair value of scheme assets 44.6 40.0 38.9 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 27.0 25.2 23.0 An analysis of the net liabilities recognised is as follows: 2012 2011 2010 m m m Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme 25.9 23.7 2.2 Chemring Defence Germany Pension Scheme 0.8 1.3 0.5 Chemring Nobel AS Pension Scheme 0.3 0.2 0.1 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 27.0 25.2 1.8 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 93 Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the Groups dened benefit schemes are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Amounts included within operating profit: Current service cost 1.0 1.2 Curtailment gain 1.4 - 0.4 1.2 Amounts included as other finance costs: Expected return on scheme assets 2.4 2.5 Discount on scheme liabilities 3.2 3.2 0.8 0.7 Net charge 0.4 1.9 Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are as follows: 2012 2011 m m i Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 3.0 1.3 ii Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities 5.7 0.5 Actuarial loss recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 2.7 1.8 i scheme assets at the balance sheet date: ii present value of the scheme liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Changes in the present value of the dened benefit obligations are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Opening dened benefit obligations 65.2 61.9 Service cost 1.0 1.2 Interest cost 3.2 3.2 Contributions from scheme members 0.3 0.6 Actuarial losses 5.7 0.5 Benets paid 2.4 2.2 Curtailment gain 1.4 - Closing dened benefit obligations 71.6 65.2 Movements in the fair value of the schemes assets were as follows: 2012 2011 m m Opening fair value of schemes assets 40.0 38.9 Expected return on scheme assets 2.4 2.5 Actuarial gains losses 1.4 1.3 Contributions from scheme members 0.3 0.6 Contributions from sponsoring companies 1.3 1.5 Additional contributions in respect of the Section 75 debt on the disposal of the UK marine business 1.6 - Benets paid 2.4 2.2 44.6 40.0 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 94 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements 34.
Pensions continued The total scheme assets updated to 31 October along with the expected rates of return on assets were as follows: 2012 2011 2010 Long term rate of Long term rate of Long term rate of return expected return expected return expected m m m Equities 6.8% 31.2 6.8% 27.7 7.65% 27.7 Bonds 3.2% 13.4 3.4% 12.3 4.2% 11.2 Total fair value of assets 44.6 40.0 38.9 The analysis of pension assets at 31 October 2012 is as follows: 2012 2011 2010 % % % Equities 70.0 69.3 71.2 Bonds 30.0 30.7 28.8 100.0 100.0 100.0 The expected rates of return are determined by reference to relevant published indices.
The overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the schemes investment portfolio.
History of experience gains and losses: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m Present value of funded and unfunded obligations 71.6 65.2 61.9 63.0 42.0 Fair value of scheme assets 44.6 40.0 38.9 34.9 28.4 deficit in the schemes 27.0 25.2 23.0 28.1 13.6 Experience gains on scheme liabilities - - 3.8-- Percentage of scheme liabilities - - 6.1% - - Experience gains losses on scheme assets 1.4 1.3 1.4 4.2 9.9 Percentage of scheme assets 3.1% 3.3 % 3.6% 12.0% 34.9 % Analysis of movement in the deficit in the schemes during the year: 2012 2011 m m Opening deficit in schemes 25.2 23.0 Current service cost 1.0 1.2 Curtailment gain 1.4 - Contributions 1.3 1.5 Other finance costs 0.8 0.7 Actuarial loss 2.7 1.8 Closing deficit in the schemes 27.0 25.2 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 95 The principal assumptions used in the actuarial valuation of the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme were as follows: 2012 2011 Discount rate 4.4% 5.0% Rate of increase in salaries n a 4.1% Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.8% 3.0% Rate of increase in pensions in payment where applicable 2.8% 3.0% Ination assumption RPI 2.9% 3.1% CPI 2.2% 2.4% Expected return on scheme assets 5.8% 5.7% In determining the pension liabilities, the Group uses mortality assumptions which are based on published mortality tables.
For the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme, the actuarial table currently used is SAPS Year of Birth Tables with a medium cohort and 1% underpin.
Life expectancy at 65: 2012 2011 Future pensioners male 88.2 88.2 female 91.0 91.0 Current pensioners male 86.3 86.3 female 89.1 89.1 The assumption considered to be the most significant is the discount rate adopted.
If the discount rate in the scheme were to change by 0.1% then it is predicted that the deficit in the scheme would change by approximately 1.4 million.
A change in the rate of ination by 0.1% is predicted to change the deficit by approximately 1.1 million and a one year change to the longevity assumption would change the deficit by approximately 1.9 million.
The Group anticipates contributions to the dened benefit schemes for the year ending 31 October 2013 will be 0.8 million 2012: 2.2 million.
Contingent liabilities The Group enters into contracts which sometimes have offset commitments.
These requirements are valued at the time of the contract being awarded.
The cost of the offsets are reviewed throughout the contract life and provided for within the contract costings to the extent of the potential liability.
At 31 October 2012, the Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and contractual performance guarantees and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business.
Where it is expected that a material liability will arise in respect of these matters, appropriate provision is made within the group financial statements.
As the conditions of these guarantees are currently being met, no obligating event is foreseeable and therefore no provision has been made at the year end.
The Group is, from time to time, party to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business.
The directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings, actions and claims, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
A provision of 1.4 million was created during the year to cover potential legal costs for the Group with regards to several pending and probable legal actions.
This provision is detailed in note 25.
Since 1 November 2010, the Group has taken a 2.5 million deductible for its material damage and business interruption cover, subject to a maximum liability of 3.5 million in any one year.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 96 Financial statements Notes to the group financial statements 36.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Trading transactions There are no trading activities between the Group and its associate.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information on the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the directors remuneration report on pages 43 to 47.
The directors of the Company had no material transactions with the Company during the year, other than in connection with their service agreements.
The remuneration of the executive directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee, having regard to the performance of the individuals and market trends.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the Board, having regard to the practice of other companies and the particular demands of the Group.
2012 2011 m m Remuneration of the executive and non-executive directors 2.7 1.5 Included within the 2012 charge is 1.1 million 2011: nil relating to compensation for loss of ofce for Dr Price and Mr Rayner.
Further detail can be found in the directors remuneration report.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012
