Directors Report The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the audited financial statements and auditors report for the year ended 31 March 2012.
The Report on Corporate Governance on pages 24 to 29 forms part of this report.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiaries is the provision of self storage and related services.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profit and net assets of the Group in the year are listed in note 29 of the financial statements.
Review of business A detailed account of the Groups progress during the year and its future prospects is set out in the Chairmans statement on pages 6 to 8.
A detailed Business Review and Financial Review have been prepared and are set out on pages 9 and 16, and more specifically as follows: the business objectives and strategy are set out in the Chairmans Statement on pages 6 to 8: the financing objectives are set out on page 28: the Groups going concern review as set out on page 29: the principal risks and uncertainties within the business are set out in the Risk Management section from page 27: and the key quantitative and qualitative performance indicators are included within the Highlights see page 4, Portfolio Summary see page 22 and Financial Review see page 16.
The Chairmans statement, the Business Review, the Financial Review, the Report on Corporate Governance and the Corporate Social Responsibility Report are incorporated by reference into the Directors Report.
Financial instruments The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, along with any details of exposure to any liquidity and cash flow risk are set out in the Business Review on page 9, and notes 2 and 18 to the financial statements.
Results and dividends The consolidated statement of comprehensive income is set out on page 59 of the financial statements.
The Directors are recommending the payment of a final dividend of 5.5 pence per share for the year 2011: 5 per ordinary share.
An interim dividend of 4.5 pence per share was paid in the year 2011: 4 per share.
A property income dividend of 9 pence is payable for the year, of which 4.5 pence per share was paid with the interim dividend, and 4.5 pence per share was proposed for the final dividend.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 July 2012, the final dividend will be paid on 20 July 2012 to shareholders on the Register on 8 June 2012.
Share capital Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Company's issued share capital during the year are shown in note 22.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Company's shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 23, and details of shares held in treasury and by the Companys Employee Benefit Trust are set out in note 22.
No person has any special rights of control over the Company's share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are described in the Report on Corporate Governance on page 24.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employees' share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
During the year the Company issued 332,519 shares to satisfy the exercise of share options 2011: 69,685.
