Directors Report continued Employees Adrian Lee, Operations Director, has responsibility to the Board for all employee matters.
The Group seeks to ensure employee commitment to its objectives in a number of ways.
Strategic changes are communicated directly to all staff who are encouraged to address queries to the Executive Directors.
The Directors Executive meetings are frequently held in stores and in addition Directors and senior management visit the stores on a regular basis.
Furthermore, there are regular team briefings at store level to provide employees with information about the performance of and initiatives in their store.
A wide range of information is also communicated across the Groups Intranet, including the e-publication of the Groups financial results and all press releases, the publication of a quarterly newsletter, and the publication of a weekly operations bulletin.
The Group carries out annual surveys of employee satisfaction.
Employees are encouraged to participate in the Groups performance through Employee Share Schemes and performance related bonuses.
Customer service is a key priority of the Group and this is achieved through recruiting good people and investing in training and development leading to high levels of retention.
The Groups recruitment policy is committed to promote equality, judging neither by race, nationality, religion, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation, nor political opinion and to treat all stakeholders fairly.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Health and safety The Board recognises the importance of maintaining high standards of health and safety for everyone who may be affected by our business.
The Groups Health and Safety policy is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
It is applied in two distinct areas construction and operations.
The policy states that all employees have a responsibility for health and safety but that managers have special responsibilities.
Additional duties are placed on Adrian Lee, Operations Director, to keep the Board advised on health and safety issues, compliance with the policy in respect of construction activity and store operations respectively.
The Group has a Health and Safety Committee, which meets quarterly and comprises Adrian Lee and appointed managers.
They meet to discuss any issues that have been reported from meetings held at head office and the stores, and any construction sites.
In addition, the Group has appointed an external consultant to review policy and perform audits of stores on a rolling programme to ensure the implementation of the Groups Health and Safety policies.
Health and Safety audits are also carried out by external consultants on each construction site prior to the opening of a store.
A review of health and safety for the year is included within the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 34 to 41.
Annual General Meeting The notice for the 2012 Annual General Meeting is distributed as a separate document.
The meeting will be held at Holborn Bars, 138-142 Holborn, EC1N 2NQ on 10 July 2012.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors In respect of each Director of the Company, at the date when this report was approved, to the best of their knowledge and belief: so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he might have reasonably been expected to take as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditors The auditors, Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board Shauna Beavis Secretary 21 May 2012 46
