Directors and their interests The Directors of the Company who served throughout the year and to the date of approval of the financial statements were as follows: Philip Burks Tim Clark James Gibson Steve Johnson Adrian Lee Mark Richardson Jonathan Short John Trotman Nicholas Vetch Details of the interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company including share options are set out in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 47 to 55.
No changes took place in the interests of the Directors between 31 March 2012 and 23 May 2012.
Biographical details of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors are set out on page 57.
Reappointment of Directors The Directors listed above constituted the Board during the year.
Following a performance appraisal process, the Board has concluded that the Directors retiring by rotation are effective, committed to their roles and should continue in office.
All of the Directors will retire in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and with the exception of Jonathan Short, will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The biographies of all Directors standing for re-election are included on page 57.
Directors and officers liability insurance The Company purchases liability insurance covering the Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Payment of suppliers The policy of the Group is to settle supplier invoices within the terms of trade agreed with individual suppliers.
Trade creditor days of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2012 were 21 days 2011: 24 days.
This represents the ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts invoiced to the Group by its suppliers in the year and the amounts due, at the year end to trade creditors within one year.
Properties The changes in investment and development property during the year and details of property valuations at 31 March 2012 are shown in notes 13a and 14 to the financial statements.
Further commentary on our investment property portfolio is contained in the Business Review and Financial Review.
Donations Charitable donations totalling 20,000 2011: 25,000 were made to UK resident charities in the year.
The Group also provided free storage to charities during the year worth 526,000 2011: 400,000.
No political donations were made in either year.
The Group encourages employee involvement in charitable giving and frequently matches any amounts raised by individuals.
Key management have been allocated budgets to support local charitable causes and the community.
Substantial shareholdings On 21 May 2012, the Company had been notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company.
