OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS Annualised rent is the gross rent receivable on a cash basis as at the EPRA NNNAV is the EPRA NAV adjusted to reflect the fair value of debt reporting date.
Additionally where rent reviews are outstanding, any and derivatives and to include deferred taxation on revaluations.
increases to applicable estimated rental value as determined by the Groups EPRA topped-up Net Initial Yield is the annualised rents generated external valuers, less any ground rents payable under head leases.
by the portfolio, after the deduction of an estimate of annual recurring BREEAM Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment irrecoverable property outgoings, plus rent contracted from expiry of Method assesses the sustainability of buildings against a range of criteria.
rent-free periods and uplifts agreed at the balance sheet date which are not intended to compensate for future inflation, expressed as a percentage CACI Ltd is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Consolidated Analysis Center of the portfolio valuation adding notional purchasers costs, excluding Incorporated CACI providing marketing solutions and informational systems development properties.
to local and central Government and to business from most industry sectors including retail.
EPRA vacancy rate is the estimated market rental value ERV of vacant space divided by ERV of the whole portfolio, excluding developments.
Capital return is calculated as the change in capital value of the UK This is the inverse of the occupancy rate.
portfolio, less any capital expenditure incurred, expressed as a percentage of capital employed over the period, as calculated by IPD.
Capital returns are Estimated rental value ERV is the external valuers opinion as to the open calculated monthly and indexed to provide a return over the relevant period.
market rent which, on the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of a property.
Capped rents are subject to a maximum level of uplift at the specified rent reviews as agreed at the time of letting.
Estimated Net Development Value is the estimated end value of a development project as determined by the external valuers for when the Collar rents are subject to a minimum level of uplift at the specified rent building is completed and fully let taking into account tenant incentives and reviews as agreed at the time of letting.
It is based on the valuers view on ERVs, yields, letting voids and rent-frees.
CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme previously known as the Carbon Reduction Commitment is the UK Governments new mandatory scheme for carbon Fair value is the estimated amount for which a property should exchange emissions reporting and pricing.
on the valuation date between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing and where parties had each acted Credit rating A rating from an independent institution that assess credit knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
worthiness or the credit risk, and provides publicly available credit ratings used by investors as well as analysts as a guide for investment Fair value movement An accounting adjustment to change the book value decisions in regard to relative credit standing or strength.
British Land of an asset or liability to its market value.
is assessed by the credit rating agency Fitch.
Other examples of credit rating agencies are Standard & Poors and Moodys Investor Service.
Gearing see Loan to Value LTV.
Developers profit is the profit on cost estimated by the valuers.
The Gross rental income is the gross accounting rent receivable quoted either developers profit is typically calculated by the valuers to be a percentage for the period or on an annualised basis prepared under IFRS which of the estimated total development costs, including land and notional requires that rental income from fixed minimum guaranteed rent reviews finance costs.
and tenant incentives is spread on a straight-line basis over the entire lease to first break.
This can result in income being recognised ahead of cash flow.
Development uplift is the total increase in the value after taking account of capital expenditure and capitalised interest of properties held for Gross Value Added GVA provides a snapshot of a companys overall development during the period.
It also includes any developers profit contribution to the UK economy, both directly through activities and indirectly recognised by valuers in the period.
Development construction cost is the total cost of construction of a project Group is The British Land Company PLC and its subsidiaries and excludes to completion, excluding site values and finance costs finance costs are its share of joint ventures and funds on a line-by-line basis i. e. not assumed by the valuers at a notional rate of 6% per annum.
EPRA is the European Public Real Estate Association, the industry body Headline rent is the contracted gross rent receivable which becomes for European REITs.
payable after all the tenant incentives in the letting have expired.
EPRA Net Initial Yield is the annualised rents generated by the portfolio, IFRS are the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted after the deduction of an estimate of annual recurring irrecoverable by the European Union.
property outgoings, expressed as a percentage of the portfolio valuation Income return is calculated as net income expressed as a percentage adding notional purchasers costs, excluding development properties.
of capital employed over the period, as calculated by IPD.
EPRA earnings is the profit after taxation excluding investment property Interest cover is the number of times net interest payable is covered revaluations and gains losses on disposals, intangible asset movements by underlying profit before net interest payable and taxation.
IPD is Investment Property Databank Ltd which produces an independent EPRA NAV per share is EPRA NAV divided by the diluted number of shares benchmark of property returns.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs Activities and behaviours, aligned to both EPRA net assets EPRA NAV are the balance sheet net assets excluding business objectives and individual goals, against which the performance the mark-to-market on effective cash flow hedges and related debt of Land Securities employees is annually assessed.
Performance measured adjustments, deferred taxation on revaluations and diluting for the effect against them is referenced in the Annual Report.
of those shares potentially issuable under employee share schemes.
Financial statements and other information The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 150 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Lettings and lease renewals are divided between short-term less Planning than two years lease length and long-term over two years lease length.
The 1947 Town and Country Planning Act requires all proposals, with Lettings and renewals are compared both to the previous passing a few exclusions, to secure planning permission from the local authority.
rent as at the start of the financial year and the ERV immediately prior It extends not only to new construction, but also to substantive changes to letting.
Both comparisons are made on a net effective basis.
There are various use classes.
Change of use to a different use class generally requires planning consent.
Like-for-like ERV growth is the change in ERV over a period on the standing investment properties expressed as a percentage of the ERV Planning consent gives consent for a development and covers matters at the start of the period.
Like-for-like ERV growth is calculated monthly such as use and design.
Full details of the development scheme must and compounded for the period subject to measurement.
be provided in an application for full planning consent, including detailed design, external appearance and landscaping before a project can proceed.
Like-for-like rental income growth is the growth in gross rental income Outline planning consent establishes the broad outline of the scheme on properties owned throughout the current and previous periods under and is subject to the later approval of the details of the design.
This growth rate includes revenue recognition and lease accounting adjustments but excludes properties held for development in either period, Portfolio valuation movement is the increase in value of the portfolio properties with guaranteed rent reviews, asset management determinations after taking account of capital expenditure and capitalised interest and surrender premiums.
of properties held at the balance sheet date and sales during the period, expressed as a percentage of the capital value at the start of the period Loan to value LTV is the ratio of principal value of gross debt less cash, plus net capital expenditure.
short-term deposits and liquid investments to the aggregate value of properties and investments.
Property Income Distributions PIDs Profits distributed as PIDs are subject to tax in the hands of the shareholders as property income.
Mark-to-market is the difference between the book value of an asset PIDs are normally paid net of withholding tax currently at 20% which or liability and its market value.
the REIT pays to the tax authorities on behalf of the shareholder.
Certain types of shareholder i. e. pension funds are tax exempt and receive Net effective rent is the contracted gross rent receivable taking into account PIDs without withholding tax.
Property companies also pay out normal any rent-free period or other tenant incentive.
The incentives are treated dividends, called non-PIDs, which are treated as normal dividends and as a cost-to-rent and spread over the lease to the earliest termination date.
not subject to withholding tax.
Net Equivalent Yield is the weighted average income return after allowing Property valuation In accordance with usual practice, the Groups external for notional purchasers costs a property will produce based upon the timing valuers report valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective of the income received.
In accordance with usual practice, the equivalent purchasers costs, including stamp duty land tax, agent and legal fees.
yields as determined by the external valuers assume rent is received annually in arrears.
Rack rented is the term used to describe when the contracted rent is in line with the estimated rental value ERV, implying a nil reversion.
Net operating costs are property operating expenses and administrative expenses net of fees and other income.
REIT Real Estate Investment Trust The Government established REIT status in the UK in 2007 to remove tax Net rental income is the rental income receivable in the period after payment inequalities between different real estate investors and aimed to improve of direct property outgoings which typically comprise ground rents payable overall investor access to real estate.
REITs are companies which are under head leases, void costs, net service charge expenses and other exempt from corporate taxation on profits from property rental income direct irrecoverable property expenses.
Net rental income is quoted on an and capital gains on the sale of investment properties.
Net rental income will differ from annualised net cash rents and passing rent due to the effects of income from rent reviews, net REITs must distribute 90% of UK rental income in the form of property property outgoings and accounting adjustments for fixed and minimum income dividends PIDs.
This makes the tax implications of investing contracted rent reviews and lease incentives.
in REITs equivalent to investing directly in property.
REITs are also required to meet certain conditions including the proportion of total profits and Net reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial yield will assets accounted for by their property rental businesses.
They remain rise to once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
liable to corporation tax on non-property investment businesses e. g. management fees and interest receivable.
Occupancy rate is the estimated rental value of let units as a percentage of the total estimated rental value of the portfolio, excluding development The UK has had a tax exempt real estate regime since 1 January 2007. properties.
It includes accommodation under offer or subject to asset A number of other countries, notably the US, Australia and France also management where they have been taken back for refurbishment and have tax exempt REIT regimes.
British Land has been a REIT since are not available to let as at the balance sheet date.
The Government is looking to encourage the growth of the REIT sector.
The 2011 budget proposals are looking to relax Over rented is the inverse of this.
qualifying conditions to encourage new entrants.
Overall topped-up Net Initial Yield is the EPRA Net topped-up Initial Yield, Rent-free period see Tenant or lease incentives.
adding all contracted uplifts to the annualised rents.
Rent reviews take place at intervals agreed in the lease typically every five Passing rent is the gross rent, less any ground rent payable under head years and their purpose is usually to adjust the rent to the current market leases.
For upwards only rent reviews, the rent will either remain at the same level or increase if market rents have increased at the review date.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements and other information 151 OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS continued Rent roll see Annualised rent.
Turnover rents is where all or a portion of the rent is linked to the sales or turnover of the occupier.
Rents with fixed and minimum uplifts are either where rents are subject to contracted uplifts at a level agreed at the time of letting: or where the rent Under rented is the term used to describe when the contracted rent is below is subject to an agreed minimum level of uplift at the specified rent review.
the estimated rental value ERV, implying a positive reversion.
Retail planning consents are separated between A1, A2 and A3 as set Underlying earnings per share EPS consists of underlying profit after out in The Town and Country Planning Use Classes Order 2005.
Within the tax divided by the diluted weighted average number of shares in issue during A1 consent category, Open A1 consent grants planning for any type of retail, the period.
while Restricted A1 consent places limits on the types of retail that can Underlying profit before tax is the pre-tax EPRA earnings measure with operate this is typically a restriction that only bulky goods operators are additional company adjustments, including realisation of cash flow hedges allowed to trade at that site.
Class Description Use for all any of the following purposes Virtual freehold represents a long leasehold tenure for a period up to 999 A1 Shops Retail sale of goods other than hot food: post office: years.
A peppercorn, or nominal, rent is paid annually.
sale of tickets or as a travel agency: sale of sandwiches Weighted average debt maturity each tranche of Group debt is multiplied or other cold food off the premises: hairdressing: direction of funerals: display of goods for sale: hiring by the remaining period to its maturity and the result is divided by total out of domestic or personal goods articles: the Group debt in issue at the period end.
reception of goods to be washed, cleaned or repaired: Weighted average interest rate is the Group loan interest and derivative a retail warehouse club being a retail club where costs per annum at the period end, divided by total Group debt in issue goods are sold, or displayed for sale, only to persons at the period end.
who are members of that club: or as a night club.
A2 Financial and Financial services: professional services other than Weighted average lease term is the average lease term remaining to first professional health or medical : or other services including betting break, or expiry, across the portfolio weighted by contracted rental income services appropriate for a shopping area.
The calculation excludes short-term lettings, A3 Restaurants Sale of food drink and cafs i. e. restaurants.
residential leases and properties allocated as developments.
A4 Drinking Pub, wine bar or other drinking establishment.
Yield shift is a movement usually expressed in bps in the yield of a property establishments asset, or like-for-like portfolio, over a given period.
Yield compression is a A5 Hot food Sale of hot food for consumption off premises.
commonly-used term for a reduction in yields.
take-aways Reversion is the increase in rent estimated by the external valuers, where the passing rent is below the estimated rental value.
The increases to rent arise on rent reviews and lettings.
Tenant or lease incentives are incentives offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically this will be an initial rent-free period, or a cash contribution to fit-out.
Under accounting rules the value of lease incentives is amortised through the income statement on a straight-line basis to the earliest lease termination date.
The residual site value of a development is calculated as the estimated net development value, less development profit, all development construction costs, finance costs assumed at a notional rate of a project to completion and notional site acquisition costs.
The residual is determined to be the current site value.
Total occupancy rate is the occupancy rate excluding accommodation under offer or subject to asset management.
Total Property Return is calculated as the change in capital value, less any capital expenditure incurred, plus net income, expressed as a percentage of capital employed over the period, as calculated by IPD.
Total return total accounting return is the growth in EPRA NAV plus dividends paid, and this can be expressed as a percentage of EPRA NAV per share at the beginning of the period.
Total Shareholder Return is the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of stock.
Total Tax Contribution is a more comprehensive view of tax contributions that the accountancy-defined tax figure quoted in most financial statements.
It comprises taxes and levies paid directly, as well as taxes collected from others which we administered.
Financial statements and other information The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 152 Head Office and Registered Office Design Bostock and Pollitt Limited, London Photography Barry Willis and Iain Crockart York House Cover photograph Iain Crockart 45 Seymour Street Print Royle Print Limited London Printed on think4 bright, a carbon balanced W1H 7LX paper made from 50% recycled fibre and 50% Telephone 44 0 20 7486 4466 fibre from FSC certified sustainable forests.
Fax 44 0 20 7935 5552 Produced by a mill certified to the ISO 14001 environmental management standard.
com The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Head Office and Registered Office York House 45 Seymour Street London W1H 7LX Telephone 44 0 20 7486 4466 Fax 44 0 20 7935 5552 www.
