Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2012 118 3FQPSU PG UIF EJSFDUPST Creditor payment policy It is the Companys policy that suppliers be paid in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the Company and the supplier, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
For the year ended 31 March 2012, the average payment period for trade creditors was 28 days 2011: 36 days.
Essential contracts The Company has no contractual or other arrangements which are considered essential to the business.
Charitable and other donations Charitable donations for the year supporting organisations involved in health, the homeless and the community amounted to 52,339 2011: 48,036 : no contributions for political purposes were made.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors affecting its performance, position and future development are set out in the Annual review on pages 2 to 61.
The nances of the Group, its liquidity position and borrowing facilities are set out in Our financial position on pages 36 to 39 and in note 16 of the accounts on pages 80 to 83.
The Group has completed significant bank renancing during the year and has recently agreed to issue 127.7 million of bonds through private placement.
As a result, the Group has strong liquidity, a favourable debt maturity prole and significant headroom against covenants.
The directors have reviewed the current and projected financial position of the Group, making reasonable assumptions about future trading performance.
As part of the review the Group has considered the Groups cash balances, its debt maturity prole, including undrawn facilities, and the long-term nature of tenant leases.
On the basis of this review, and after making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Statement as to disclosure of information to the auditor So far as the directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Directors Report are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditor is unaware and each director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Notice of Meeting on pages 122 and 123 sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting and gives details of the voting record date and proxy appointment deadline for that meeting.
Resolutions 1 to 12 comprise ordinary business and resolutions 13 to 16 special business.
Authority to allot shares and grant rights At the Annual General Meeting held on 7 July 2011, shareholders authorised the directors, under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot ordinary shares without the prior consent of shareholders for a period expiring at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2012 or, if earlier, on 1 October 2012.
Resolution 13 will seek to renew this authority and to authorise the directors under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into shares for a period expiring no later than 1 October 2013.
Paragraph a i of Resolution 13 will allow the directors to allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 13,028,172 representing approximately one-third of the Companys existing issued share capital and calculated as at 22 May 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Report.
In accordance with the latest institutional guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers, paragraph a ii of Resolution 13 will allow directors to allot, including the ordinary shares referred to in paragraph a i of Resolution 13, further of the Companys ordinary shares in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of a Rights Issue to ordinary shareholders up to a maximum nominal amount of 26,056,344, representing approximately two-thirds of the Companys existing issued share capital and calculated as at 22 May 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Report.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
However, if they do exercise the authority, the directors intend to follow best practice as regards its use as recommended by the ABI.
Resolution 13 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to renew this authority until the conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, the close of business on 1 October 2013.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights Also at last years meeting, a special resolution was passed, under sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006, empowering the directors to allot equity securities for cash without first being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders.
Resolution 14 will seek to renew this authority.
If approved, the resolution will authorise directors in accordance with the Articles of Association to issue
