Annual review Financials Governance 119 shares in connection with a rights issue and otherwise to issue shares for cash up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,954,225 which includes the sale on a non pre-emptive basis of any shares held in treasury.
The maximum nominal amount of equity securities to which this authority relates represents approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 22 May 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Report.
The directors do not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company for cash on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three year period without prior consultation with the shareholders and the Investment Committees of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
Resolution 14 will be proposed as a special resolution to renew this authority until the conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, the close of business on 1 October 2013.
Authority to purchase own shares A special resolution was also passed at last years meeting enabling the Company to purchase its own shares in the market.
Resolution 15 will seek to renew this authority.
The maximum number of shares to which the authority relates is 46,870,154.
This represents 14.99% of the share capital of the Company in issue as at 22 May 2012.
The directors intend only to exercise this authority if to do so would, in their opinion, enhance shareholder value.
If Resolution 15 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, the Company will have the option of holding as treasury shares any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution.
This would give the Company the ability to sell treasury shares, providing the Company with additional exibility in the management of its capital base.
No dividends will be paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to the treasury shares.
Any shares purchased by the Company under this authority would be cancelled unless the shares are being purchased by the Company to hold and resell as treasury shares.
The price paid for ordinary shares will not be less than the nominal value of 12.5 pence per share and not more than the higher of 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the Companys ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days preceding the day on which the ordinary shares are purchased and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003.
There were no purchases of shares by the Company during the year.
At 31 March 2012, the number of shares which may be purchased under the shareholders authority given at the 2011 Annual General Meeting was 46,870,154 based on shares in issue of 312,676,149.
At 22 May 2012, the Company held no shares in treasury.
Resolution 15 will be proposed as a special resolution to renew this authority until the conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, the close of business on 1 October 2013.
Notice of general meetings The notice period required by the Companies Act 2006 for general meetings of the Company is 21 days, unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
Annual General Meetings must always be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
At last years Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised the calling of general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on not less than 14 clear days notice and Resolution 16 seeks to renew this authority.
The authority granted by this resolution, if passed, will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Note that in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the Company must make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
The exibility offered by this resolution will be used where, taking into account the circumstances, the directors consider this appropriate in relation to the business to be considered at the meeting and in the interests of the Company and shareholders as a whole.
Recommendation The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Your Board will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommends that you do so as well.
By order of the Board Desna Martin Company Secretary Great Portland Estates plc Company number: 596137 23 May 2012
