That, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 of the Companies Act 2006 of its shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors may determine, provided that: a the maximum number of shares which may be purchased is 46,870,154: b the maximum price at which shares may be purchased shall not be more than the higher of an amount equal to 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for the shares as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days, preceding the date of purchase and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 and the minimum price shall be 12.5 pence, being the nominal value of the shares, in each case exclusive of expenses: c the authority conferred by this Resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution or at the close of business on1 October 2013 whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may before such expiry enter into a contract or contracts for purchase under which such purchase may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of this authority and may make a purchase of shares in pursuance of any such contracts: and d all existing authorities for the Company to make market purchases of its shares are revoked, except in relation to the purchase of shares under a contract or contracts concluded before the date of this Resolution and which has or have not yet been executed.
That, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Registered ofce: 33 Cavendish Square London W1G 0PW By order of the Board Desna Martin Company Secretary 23 May 2012 specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time Notes to notice of meeting as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting to the appointee through other means.
provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must c The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 be returned by one of the following methods: a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001. in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys Registrar at the address shown on the form d CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that of proxy: or Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member with the procedures set out below, is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure and in each case must be received by the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time that their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that of the meeting.
a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, 2.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
paragraph 8 below will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
A shareholder must inform the Companys Registrar in writing of any termination of the 9.
The Company species that only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company as authority of a proxy.
at 6.00pm on 3 July 2012 or in the event of any adjournment, at 6.00pm on the date which is two days before the date of the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number 3.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 of shares registered in their name at that time and changes to the Register after that time shall be disregarded to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to 10.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that 4.
The statement of rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraph 1 above does section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in this paragraph can only be exercised by shareholders to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be of the Company.
laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold ofce since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 5.
Nominated persons are reminded that they should contact the registered holder of their shares and not the 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the members requesting such website publication Company on matters relating to their investments in the Company.
to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006, and it must forward the statement to the Companys auditors not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
As at 22 May 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company share capital consists of 312,676,149 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
A member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any 7.
Copies of all directors contracts are available for inspection at 33 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0PW during such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do normal business hours on any weekday English public holidays excepted and will be available at the place of the so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of condential information, Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable 8. a CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual on the Euroclear website 13.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 can be found www.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those at www.
co. uk investors agm CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Meeting or any related documents including the form of proxy to communicate with the Company for any other purposes other than those expressly b In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message stated.
a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in 15.
Voting on all resolutions will be conducted by way of a poll rather than on a show of hands.
This will result in a more the CREST Manual.
The message regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an accurate reection of the views of shareholders by ensuring that every vote is recognised, including all votes of amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted shareholders who are unable to attend the meeting but who appoint a proxy for the meeting.
On a poll, each so as to be received by the issuers agent ID: RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments shareholder has one vote for every share held.
