Strategic review Governance Financial statements Directors responsibilities Other information Directors responsibilities The Directors have elected to prepare the Directors responsibilities in Responsibility Statement parent company financial statements in We confirm to the best of our knowledge: respect of the preparation of the accordance with United Kingdom Generally financial statements 1.
The financial statements, prepared in Accepted Accounting Practice United The Directors are responsible for preparing accordance with the applicable set of Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable the Annual Report, Directors Remuneration accounting standards, give a true and fair law.
The parent company financial statements Report and the financial statements view of the assets, liabilities, financial position are required by law to give a true and fair in accordance with applicable law and profit and loss of the Company and the view of the state of affairs of the Company.
undertakings included in the consolidation In preparing these financial statements, the taken as a whole: and Directors are required to: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial 2.
The Business and financial review, which is select suitable accounting policies and then year.
The Directors are required by the IAS incorporated into the Directors Report, apply them consistently: regulation to prepare the Group financial includes a fair review of the development make judgements and estimates that are statements under International Financial and performance of the business and reasonable and prudent: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the position of the Company and the the European Union.
The Group financial undertakings included in the consolidation state whether applicable UK Accounting statements are also required by law to be taken as a whole, together with a description Standards have been followed, subject to any properly prepared in accordance with the of the principal risks and uncertainties material departures disclosed and explained Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the they face.
in the financial statements: and IAS regulation.
Signed on behalf of the Board on prepare the financial statements on the going International Accounting Standard 1 requires concern basis unless it is inappropriate to 28 February 2013 that financial statements present fairly for presume that the Company will continue each financial year the Groups financial in business.
position, financial performance and cash David Atkins The Directors are responsible for keeping flows.
This requires the faithful representation Director proper accounting records that disclose with of the effects of transactions, other events reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Timon Drakesmith and conditions in accordance with the position of the Company and enable them Director definition and recognition criteria for assets, to ensure that the parent company financial liabilities, income and expenses set out in statements comply with the Companies the International Accounting Standards Act 2006.
They are also responsible for Boards Framework for the preparation safeguarding the assets of the Company and and presentation of financial statements.
In hence for taking reasonable steps for the virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation prevention and detection of fraud and other will be achieved by compliance with all irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the However, Directors are also required to: maintenance and integrity of the corporate properly select and apply accounting policies: and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United present information, including accounting Kingdom governing the preparation and policies, in a manner that provides relevant, dissemination of the financial statements may reliable, comparable and understandable differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
