Other information continued Glossary Interest cover ABC1 customers Underlying operating profit excluding trading property related Proportion of customers within UK social groups A, B and C1, defined as items divided by the net finance cost plus interest on convertible members of households whose chief earners occupation is professional, bonds recognised in equity excluding the change in fair value of higher or intermediate management or supervisory.
derivatives, exceptional finance costs and amortisation of compound financial instruments.
Annual property income The Groups share of passing rent plus the external valuers estimate Interest rate swap of annual excess turnover rent, additional rent in respect of unsettled A derivative financial instrument enabling parties to exchange interest rent reviews and sundry income such as that from car parks and rate obligations for a predetermined period.
These are used by the mall commercialisation.
Group to convert floating rate debt to fixed rates.
Debt to assets ratio IPD Net external debt divided by the market value of investment and Investment Property Databank Ltd, producer of an independent development property.
Diluted figures Like-for-like property Reported amounts adjusted to include the effects of dilutive potential Investment property which has been owned throughout both periods shares issuable under convertible bonds and employee incentive without significant capital expenditure in either period, so that income arrangements.
can be compared on a like-for-like basis.
For the purposes of comparison of capital values, this will also include assets owned at the previous Earnings per share reporting period end but not throughout the prior period.
Profit for the period attributable to owners of Intu divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Loan-to-value LTV LTV is the ratio of attributable debt to the market value of an EPRA investment property.
European Public Real Estate Association, the publisher of Best Practice Recommendations intended to make financial statements of public real NAV per share diluted, adjusted estate companies in Europe clearer, more transparent and comparable.
NAV per share calculated on a diluted basis and adjusted to reflect any unrecognised surplus on trading properties net of tax, to remove ERV estimated rental value the fair value of derivatives net of tax and to remove deferred tax The external valuers estimate of the Groups share of the current on investment and development property and other investments.
annual market rent of all lettable space net of any non-recoverable charges, before bad debt provision and adjustments required under IFRS Net asset value NAV per share regarding tenant lease incentives.
Net assets attributable to owners of Intu Properties plc divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the period end.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those items that in the Directors view are Net external debt required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence to Net debt after removing the Metrocentre compound financial instrument.
enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Headline rent ITZA Annual contracted rent per square foot after expiry of concessionary periods in terms of zone A.
148 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Net initial yield EPRA Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Annualised net rent on investment property after deduction of revenue A tax regime which exempts from corporation tax the rental profits costs such as head rent, running void, service charge after shortfalls, and capital gains of the REITs qualifying investment property activities.
empty rates and merchant association contribution expressed as a In the UK, the regime must be elected into and the REIT must meet percentage of the gross market value before deduction of theoretical certain ongoing qualifications, including the requirement to distribute acquisition costs, consistent with EPRAs net initial yield.
at least 90 per cent of qualifying rental profits to shareholders.
The Group elected for REIT status with effect from 1 January 2007.
Net rental income The Groups share of net rents receivable as shown in the income Scrip Dividend Scheme statement, having taken due account of non-recoverable costs, bad The Group offers shareholders the opportunity to participate in debt provisions and adjustments to comply with IFRS including those the Scrip Dividend Scheme.
This enables participating shareholders regarding tenant lease incentives.
to receive shares instead of cash when a Scrip Alternative is offered for a particular dividend.
For more information, please visit Nominal equivalent yield intugroup.
co. uk investors  dividends Effective annual yield to a purchaser from the assets individually at market value after taking account of notional acquisition costs Tenant or lease incentives assuming rent is receivable annually in arrears, reflecting estimated Any incentives offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically rental values ERV but disregarding potential changes in market rents.
incentives are in the form of an initial rent free period and or a cash contribution to fit-out the premises.
Under IFRS the value of incentives Occupancy granted to tenants is amortised through the income statement on a The passing rent of let and under offer units expressed as a percentage straight-line basis over the lease term.
of the passing rent of let and under offer units plus ERV of un-let units, excluding development and recently completed properties.
Units let to Topped-up NIY EPRA tenants in administration and still trading are treated as let and those Net initial yield adjusted for the expiration of rent free periods and other no longer trading are treated as un-let.
Passing rent Total financial return The Groups share of contracted annual rents receivable at the balance The change in NAV per share diluted, adjusted plus dividends per share sheet date.
This takes no account of accounting adjustments made in paid in the period expressed as a percentage of opening NAV per share respect of rent free periods or tenant incentives, the reclassification of diluted, adjusted.
certain lease payments as finance charges or any irrecoverable costs Trading property and expenses, and does not include excess turnover rent, additional Property held for trading purposes rather than to earn rentals or for rent in respect of unsettled rent reviews or sundry income such as capital appreciation and shown as current assets in the balance sheet.
Contracted annual rents in respect of tenants in administration are excluded.
Underlying earnings per share EPS Earnings per share adjusted to exclude valuation movements, Property Income Distribution PID exceptional items and related tax.
A dividend, generally subject to UK withholding tax at the basic rate of income tax, that a UK REIT is required to pay to its shareholders Underlying figures from its qualifying rental profits.
Certain classes of shareholder Amounts described as underlying exclude valuation movements, may qualify to receive a PID gross, shareholders should refer to exceptional items and related tax.
co. uk for further information.
The Group can also pay non-PID dividends which are not subject to UK withholding tax.
Vacancy rate EPRA The ERV of vacant space divided by total ERV.
Yield shift A movement usually expressed in basis points in the yield of a property asset.
Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 149
