Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Shareholder information Registrars Web-based enquiry service for shareholders All enquiries concerning shares or shareholdings, including notification of change of address, queries regarding loss of a share certificate and Shareholders registered in the UK can go to www.
com dividend payments should be addressed to: to obtain details of their shareholdings and dividends.
The shareholders surname, Investor Code found on any correspondence from registrars For shareholders registered in the UK and postcode are required to use this service.
Shareholders may also Capita Registrars use this service to amend or change their address and dividend The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU mandate details.
Telephone within UK 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus Shareholders registered in South Africa can go to network extras: lines are open 8.30 am 5.30 pm Monday Friday www.
com investor to obtain details of their Telephone outside UK 44 20 8639 3399 shareholdings.
Shareholders will need to follow a registration process in Facsimile 44 20 8639 2342 order to access such information.
Unfortunately, due to South African Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com legal requirements, shareholders may not update records, but will be www.
com able to view their entire holding of shares globally.
Please note that the Computershare company code for Intu Properties plc is ITUZ.
For shareholders registered in South Africa Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001 Share dealing South Africa Postal address: Existing UK shareholders may trade Intu Properties plc shares through PO Box 61051 Capita Share Dealing Services who provide an easy to use, real-time Marshalltown 2107, South Africa online, telephone and postal dealing service.
Telephone 27 11 370 5000 Contact details are: Facsimile 27 11 688 5221 Email: web.
com Telephone within UK 0871 664 0364 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: lines are open 8.00 am 4.30 pm Monday Friday Ireland Lo-call 1 890 946 375 outside UK 44 20 3367 2686 Payment of dividends Existing South African shareholders whose shares are held in electronic Shareholders who wish to have their dividends paid directly into a bank format through Computershare CSDP may trade Intu Properties plc or building society account should complete a mandate form available shares through Computershares low cost telephone share dealing from the appropriate registrars.
Share price information Electronic communication The latest information on the Intu Properties plc share price is available The Company supplies information such as the Annual and Interim on the website intugroup.
co. uk Report via its website to shareholders who have consented to such communication.
Shareholders will be notified by email or post when new information is available on the website.
Shareholders can at any time revoke a previous instruction in order to receive hard copies of shareholder information.
UK shareholders may register to receive email alerts by logging on to the website of the UK Registrars www.
com and following the instructions given to register an email address.
SA shareholders may register to receive email alerts by written instruction to the SA Registrar, Computershare, sent either by email ecomms@computershare.
Once registered, shareholders are sent a Notice of Availability email highlighting that the Annual Report, Interim Report or other information is available for viewing on the website.
Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 151 This report contains forward-looking statements regarding the belief or current expectations of Intu Properties plc, its Directors and other members of its senior management about Intu Properties plcs businesses, financial performance and results of operations.
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
Rather, they are based on current views and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the control of Intu Properties plc and are difficult to predict, that may cause actual results, performance or developments to differ materially from any future results, performance or developments expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this report.
Except as required by applicable law, Intu Properties plc makes no representation or warranty in relation to them and expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements contained herein to reect any change in Intu Properties plcs expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Any information contained in this report on the price at which shares or other securities in Intu Properties plc have been bought or sold in the past, or on the yield on such shares or other securities, should not be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
152 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
co. uk Intu Properties plc 40 Broadway, London SW1H 0BT
