Definitions KPI Definitions Core businesses organic revenue growth Revenue growth in core businesses stated at constant translation exchange rates, excluding the incremental effect of acquisitions and disposals.
Underlying EPS growth at constant The year on year increase of the underlying profit after taxation stated at constant translation translation exchange rates exchange rates divided by the average number of Ordinary Shares.
Operating cash conversion Operating cash flow as a percentage of trading profit, excluding profit from joint ventures.
Core businesses PV investment Private Venture or company funded Research and Development R&D excluding Aviation Services, where there is no R&D activity.
Staff safety major accident incident rate The number of accidents resulting in more than 3 days absence per 100,000 employees.
Voluntary staff turnover The number of voluntary leavers divided by the average number of employees over the period, excluding employees who became redundant, were dismissed, or retired.
Further financial definitions other direct costs associated with business combinations, adjustments The following notes apply throughout the Annual Report and Accounts: to contingent consideration related to previously acquired businesses and direct costs from terminated divestments.
All numbers referring to core businesses exclude Analytic Solutions, which was divested in November 2011 and Commercial Systems which Business restructuring costs comprise exceptional items associated with was substantially divested in July 2012. the restructuring of the Groups portfolio.
It also includes the costs of re-engineering operations as part of EiD including the costs of integrating To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included sites into principal locations and the additional streamlining under the two within its published statements trading profit and underlying earnings results.
year extension of the EiD programme to the end of 2015.
Trading profit has been defined as operating profit from continuing A reconciliation of operating profit and profit before taxation to the operations excluding the impacts of certain M&A related costs and business respective underlying numbers is shown on page 26. restructuring costs as detailed below.
Also excluded are changes in the marking to market of non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments, Operating cash flow is defined as cash generated from operations after impairments of intangible assets and items deemed by the Directors to be cash flows from the purchase or disposal of property, plant, equipment of an exceptional nature.
Free cash flow is operating cash flow after net interest, taxation, dividends received from joint ventures and the cash Underlying earnings are defined as trading profit less net underlying finance cost of business restructuring.
costs, which excludes the unwinding of acquisition related discounting, and after deducting taxation and non-controlling interests.
Net debt is defined as the net of cash and cash equivalents less borrowings at the balance sheet date.
M&A related costs excluded from trading profit and underlying earnings include the amortisation of intangible assets recognised on business A Group-wide brand charge of up to 1% is charged to the Divisions combinations and the writing off of the pre-acquisition profit element from Head Office.
The allocation of 2011 comparative profit between of inventory written up on acquisition.
M&A related costs also include the Divisions and Head Office has been restated accordingly.
Designed and produced by Addison www.
co. uk This document is printed on Amadeus coated 50 silk, Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
a paper containing 50% recycled fibre 25% post consumer and 25% pre consumer and 50% virgin fibre Park is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral company sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified and its Environmental Management System is certified forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using to ISO14001.
an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% When you have finished with this report, please pass it of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on to other interestedparties or remove the cover and on average 99% of any waste associated with dispose of it in your recycled paperwaste.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 129 The most important thing we build is trust Cobham plc Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 2BJ, England www.
