What we do We offer a technically diverse and innovative range of technologies and services that help to protect lives and livelihoods, responding to customer needs with agility that differentiates us High level of company funded development Leveraging a customer base spanning or private venture PV work.
Partnerships 100 countries to provide a broader range with universities, colleges and consortia of products and services to each customer.
Positions on a diverse range of air, land High technology content in specialist markets and marine platforms reduces risk and present significant barriers to entry.
increases potential returns on investment.
Potential to adapt technologies for multiple Long term nature of programmes and applications across defence security and Aviation Services contracts foster close commercial markets.
customer relationships and forward revenue visibility.
Cost of materials 575m Employees Market driven Global sales & 10,000 PV investment distribution R&D investment 156m Investment target 6% of revenue, plus Predominantly Business to Business sales.
Focus is on development of critical Critical focus on cost and price, coupled components and subsystems, predominantly with continual reductions in size, weight Tier 3 capabilities with some Tier 2. and power consumption.
Tier 1 System of Systems Platforms Smaller Tier 2 Platform Systems & Signal Processing Subsystems Tier 3 Lighter Circuits Components More power efficient 4 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Cobham has three Divisions focused Aftermarket opportunity varies with type on manufacturing and an Aviation and complexity of product and represented Services Division.
Excellence in Delivery EiD is improving Cobhams capabilities also present significant operational performance and customer opportunities for technology upgrades.
The Group is able to expand and adapt the Manufacturing is being consolidated into scope of service provision as customer 14 Principal Locations, reducing costs needs evolve.
Cobham products are being utilised in the provision of critical services.
Operational Global excellence and Customers in 100 countries aftermarket consolidated support production Original equipment manufacturers Prime contractors Airlines Distributors Technology Service flexibility Government agencies related services EiD establishing a Cobham way of doing Platforms, particularly aircraft and ships, business across 14 Principal Locations can be in service for decades.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5
