Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Glossary Acronym Full Name Description A330 MRTT Airbus A330 Multi-Role A multi-role aircraft with air-to-air refuelling and passenger or cargo transport capabilities.
Tanker Transport AARGM Advanced Anti-Radiation A supersonic, medium-range, air-launched tactical missile compatible with US and allied Guided Missile strike aircraft and designed to home in on electronic transmissions from radar installations.
AEGIS BMD Aegis Ballistic Missile Defence The sea-based component of the US Missile Defense Agencys system for missile defence.
AMRAAM Advanced Medium-Range A new generation of air-to-air missile with an all-weather, beyond-visual-range capability.
Air-to-Air Missile Apache Boeing AH-64 Apache An advanced multi-role combat attack helicopter with over 1,800 delivered to twelve armed forces around the world, including the US Army.
C-130 Lockheed Martin C-130 Hercules A multi-role aircraft with air-to-air refuelling, cargo transport, and special mission capabilities.
CH-47 Boeing CH-47 Chinook A multi-mission, heavy-lift transport helicopter.
ERP Enterprise Resource Planning A software system which integrates all business processes including, manufacturing, finance and accounting, human resources, sales and marketing, purchasing and distribution, and inventory and warehouse into one central cohesive repository.
It allows businesses to run more efficiently, with real time access to data across many business functions.
F-# USAF designated fighter aircraft Designation given by the US Air Force to aircraft designed for air-to-air combat or for multiple roles, including ground support missions.
FSTA Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft A UK Private Finance Initiative funded project to replace the UKs air-to-air refuelling AAR Fleets, and elements of the Air Transport work currently undertaken by RAF VC10 and TriStar fleets.
Global Xpress Inmarsat Global Xpress A satellite service, scheduled to begin in 2013, which will be the world's first to offer global mobile broadband coverage.
Global Xpress will provide increased data speeds and bandwidth to customers in the government, maritime and aeronautical sectors.
Hawk BAE Systems Hawk advanced A versatile jet trainer aircraft with a fully integrated training system.
jet trainer IED Improvised Explosive Device Homemade bombs thought to be the weapon of choice for terrorists due to their availability and destructiveness.
KC-390 Embraer KC-390 Refuelling Tanker A medium-lift military transport and tanker aircraft currently being developed by Embraer.
Production is scheduled to commence in 2015.
KC-46 Boeing KC-46 Refuelling Tanker A refuelling tanker, currently being developed for the US Air Force to replace its ageing fleet of KC-135 Stratotankers.
The KC-46, with initial flights scheduled for 2014, offers improved cargo and passenger capability.
Patriot Patriot anti-air missile system A surface-to-air missile system used for aircraft and ballistic missile defence.
SATCOM Satellite Communication Enables voice and data communications such as telephone calls, TV pictures or internet connections, using an orbiting satellite to transfer data around the earth.
SEWIP Surface Electronic Warfare An upgrade programme to a family of passive and active shipboard electronic Improvement Programme warfare systems.
SM-# Raytheon Standard Missile Family An air and ballistic missile defence family of missiles.
SwiftBroadband Inmarsat SwiftBroadband A service that provides voice and high-speed data simultaneously on-board an aircraft for key cockpit and cabin applications.
These include in-flight telephony, Voice over IP, text messaging, email and internet.
UAV UAS Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Unmanned aircraft that generally carry cameras, sensors, communications equipment or Unmanned Aerial System other payloads.
They are currently used in reconnaissance and intelligence gathering roles with more challenging roles envisioned, including combat missions.
V-22 Bell Boeing V-22 A multi-mission tiltrotor, vertical takeoff and landing aircraft manufactured by Bell Boeing, a team of Bell Helicopter and Boeing, that is currently in service with the US Marines and the US Air Force Special Operations Command.
WGS Wideband Global Satellite A constellation of satellites providing worldwide communication coverage.
The WGS system is expected to consist of ten satellites, eight US funded, and two funded via international partnerships.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 12 7
