Accounting policies General information In establishing the fair value for intangible assets recognised on acquisition These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements of and their estimated useful lives, the Group takes account of the individual Cobham plc the Company, a public company limited by shares, registered circumstances of the entity acquired.
Factors considered include trading and domiciled in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries the Group.
The data, the value and duration of contracts acquired and the strength, address of the registered office is Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, England duration and degree of exclusivity of relationships with customers.
estimates are also used, including the estimation of likely external royalty rates that could be associated with technology and branding assets and Basis of preparation attributable future cash flows.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the Impairment of goodwill EU, International Financial Reporting Interpretation Council IFRIC The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least once a year.
interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable This requires estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to companies reporting under IFRS.
CGUs to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern from the CGUs and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation calculate the present value of those cash flows.
Further details are given of derivative financial instruments which are held at fair value.
The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations Taxation have been adopted with effect from 1 January 2012.
No changes to The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant previously published accounting policies or other adjustments were judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for tax.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Transfers Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on of Assets.
estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax Amendments to IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS: Severe Hyperinflation outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-Time Adopters.
recorded, such differences will impact the current tax provision, deferred tax provisions and income statement in the period in which such determination Management judgement and estimation uncertainty is made.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of estimates and judgements that affect the application of accounting Retirement benefits policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
The Group financial statements include costs and liabilities in relation to retirement benefit obligations.
A number of assumptions are made in These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based assessing the costs and present value of the pension assets and liabilities on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future which include the long-term rate of increase of salary costs, discount rate, events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The inflation, the expected return on plan assets and mortality rates.
The Group current economic conditions have been considered when evaluating uses published indices and independent actuarial advice to select the values accounting estimates and judgements, including the application of the of critical assumptions, which are disclosed in note 23. going concern basis of preparation.
Although estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual Provisions results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The consolidated financial statements include appropriate provisions for the estimated outcome of commercial disputes.
No such provision is The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of included for contingent liabilities.
The Directors take account of the advice estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant of experts in quantifying the expected costs of future adverse judgements.
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets Due to the inherent uncertainty associated with such claims and legal and liabilities in the next financial year, are as follows: proceedings, the timing and amount of the actual claims could differ from the amount provided.
Intangible assets recognised on acquisition On completion of a business combination, the cost is allocated by Principal accounting policies recognising the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, acquired at fair value.
Intangible assets are recognised where they are are as set out below.
separable or arise from contractual or legal rights, and have a fair value that can be measured reliably.
For the Group these intangible assets usually Underlying measures comprise contractual arrangements, customer relationships and technology In addition to the information required by IFRS and to assist with the based assets, but can also include acquired patents, software rights and understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included within its licences and development costs.
published financial statements non-GAAP measures including trading profit and underlying earnings results.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 62 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Trading profit has been defined as operating profit from continuing Foreign currencies operations excluding the impacts of certain M&A related costs and The presentation currency of the Group is sterling.
Most Group companies, business restructuring costs as detailed below.
Also excluded are changes including the parent company, use their local currency as their functional in the marking to market of non-hedge accounted derivative financial currency.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency instruments, impairments of intangible assets, and items deemed by the are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Directors to be of an exceptional nature such as the settlement of a Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies long-standing commercial dispute.
Underlying earnings are defined as are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and trading profit less net underlying finance costs, which excludes the any exchange differences arising are taken to the income statement.
unwinding of acquisition related discounting, and after deducting taxation and non-controlling interests.
For consolidation purposes the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at the closing exchange rates.
Income statements of such M&A related costs excluded from trading profit and underlying earnings undertakings are consolidated at the average rates of exchange as an include the amortisation of intangible assets recognised on acquisition approximation for actual rates during the year.
Exchange differences arising and the writing off of the pre-acquisition profit element of inventory on these translations are accounted for in other comprehensive income written up on acquisition.
M&A related costs also include other direct OCI and the translation reserve.
costs associated with business combinations, adjustments to contingent consideration related to previously acquired businesses and direct costs Business combinations from terminated divestments.
Businesses acquired are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting with effect from the date control passes.
The cost of an Business restructuring costs comprise exceptional items associated with acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration transferred.
the restructuring of the Groups portfolio.
It also includes the costs of This is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and re-engineering operations as part of Excellence in Delivery including the equity interests issued by the Group.
Where a business combination the costs of integrating sites into principal locations and the additional is completed in stages, any previously held interests are re-measured to streamlining under the two year extension of the EiD programme to the fair value at the date at which control is achieved.
Any resulting gain or end of 2015. loss is recognised in the income statement.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and All underlying measures include the revenue and operational results of contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured all operations including those being sold until the point of sale.
initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the Groups share of Net debt is defined as the net of cash and cash equivalents less the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
borrowings at the balance sheet date.
Contingent consideration not in the form of equity instruments is Basis of consolidation accounted for as a financial liability and adjustments are accounted for The Group financial statements include the financial statements of the as gains or losses recognised through profit or loss and excluded from parent company, Cobham plc, and of all its subsidiaries made up to trading profit and underlying earnings.
the end of the financial period.
Operating segments Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company has control, which The chief operating decision making body for the Group has been identified is defined as the power to govern the financial and operating policies of as the Board.
It reviews the Groups internal reporting in order to assess an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are fully performance and allocate resources.
The internal reporting structure forms consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Company the basis of the Groups segmental reporting and the segments are disclosed until the date that control ceases.
On derecognition, any amounts previously in note 1.
All operating segments meet the definition of reportable recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are segments.
Details of the composition and purpose of the Board can be accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets found on pages 37 and 38. or liabilities.
This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
The Board assesses the performance of operating segments based on revenue, trading profit as defined above and operating cash generation.
Joint ventures are entities where control is shared with one or more third Finance income, finance costs and taxation are not segmented and parties.
Associates are entities where the Group has significant influence but are reviewed by the Board on a Group basis.
do not meet the definition of a subsidiary or joint venture.
Joint ventures and associates are not consolidated but are accounted for using the equity The Board does not review any information on segment assets and liabilities.
The Group financial statements include the Groups share of the Segment assets as disclosed in note 1 have been defined to include post acquisition change in net assets and the post-tax profit or loss of jointly intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment properties, controlled entities and associates from the date that joint control or inventory and trade and other receivables.
They do not include tax significant influence commences until the date this ceases.
receivables, cash and bank balances and derivative financial assets.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63 Accounting policies continued The Group accounting policies are applied consistently across all segments Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that and activities.
Trading between segments is contracted and priced at arms taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary length commercial terms.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it Revenue recognition is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to Revenue is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration, net allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
of returns, rebates and other similar allowances.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments Revenue from the sale of goods not under a long term contract is in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership and difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary effective control of the goods have been passed to the customer, recovery difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
of the consideration is probable, and the amount of revenue and costs can be measured reliably.
In the case of contracts with a long duration, including Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to contracts with a funded development phase, revenue is recognised based offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred upon the fair value of work performed to date assessed with reference to taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
completed contract milestones which have been accepted by the customer.
Dividends Long term contract accounting as described in IAS 11 Construction Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are Contracts is not generally applicable to the longer term contracts for fully authorised.
sales of goods entered into by Group companies.
Where long term contract accounting is applicable, revenue is recognised on a percentage Intangible assets of completion basis whereby a portion of the contract revenue is recognised Goodwill based on contract costs incurred to date compared with total estimated Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups costs at completion.
interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a business at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill acquired is allocated at acquisition to the Revenue for services is recognised as the services are rendered with CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
CGUs reference to the proportion of the service delivered to date.
For cost-plus represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is contracts typically with government departments and agencies, revenue monitored for internal management purposes.
is recognised to the extent of reimbursable costs incurred, plus a proportionate amount of the estimated fee earned.
For contracts where Goodwill arising on business combinations is capitalised and reviewed for revenue is determined on a unit activity basis, revenue is recognised on impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately the basis of activity undertaken in the period.
in the income statement and cannot be subsequently reversed.
Revenue excludes inter-company sales, value added tax and other On divestment of a business the attributable amount of goodwill is included sales taxes.
in the determination of the profit or loss on divestment.
This includes any exchange differences reclassified to the income statement from the Taxation including deferred taxation translation reserve.
The tax expense relates to the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Research and development Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs from Research expenditure not chargeable to customers is written off as incurred.
profit before taxation as reported in the income statement.
Taxable profit Development costs not chargeable to customers are written off as incurred excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in until it can be demonstrated that the conditions for capitalisation as other years and also excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
described in IAS 38 Intangible Assets are met.
At that point further costs are The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using rates that have been capitalised as an intangible asset until the intangible asset is readily available enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
for use and it is then amortised on a straight-line basis over the assets estimated useful life.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences arising between the tax bases of Other intangible assets assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated Intangible assets other than goodwill which are acquired by the Group financial statements.
are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
These include customer relationships, technology and software, trademarks, Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates and laws that have been licences and patents.
The only internally generated intangible assets are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and that are development costs which are capitalised as described above and internally expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability developed software where asset recognition criteria are met.
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement except when developed software is included within other intangible assets.
it relates to items recognised in OCI or directly in equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in OCI or in equity respectively.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 64 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information All other intangible assets are amortised over the assets estimated useful life Impairment losses on a straight-line basis as follows: The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets are reviewed at least annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
Customer relationships 2 to 15 years In addition, intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, Technology based assets 2 to 10 years are tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that Development costs 2 to 10 years the asset may be impaired.
Other intangible assets 6 months to 10 years Where there is an indication of impairment, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs Useful lives are assessed for each asset on an individual basis taking into to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash account the specific characteristics of the asset.
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the Property, plant and equipment risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have Freehold land is not depreciated, but is reviewed for impairment at not been adjusted.
Freehold and leasehold buildings, plant and machinery, and fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment are held at historic cost less An impairment loss is recognised where the recoverable amount of an asset accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment losses.
Cost is lower than its carrying amount.
All impairment losses are recognised in the comprises the purchase price and any costs directly attributable to the asset.
All property, plant and equipment other than land is depreciated on a An impairment loss other than arising on goodwill is reversed only after straight-line basis to the estimated residual values over the estimated a change in the estimates used to assess recoverable amount and only to useful lives.
These lives are as follows: the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or Freehold buildings 50 years amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Any reversal Leasehold properties The period of the lease is recognised in the income statement.
Plant and machinery 3 to 15 years Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 3 to 15 years Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease Estimated residual values and the estimated useful lives are reviewed transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
annually and adjusted where necessary.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease relevant lease.
payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement.
Assets under construction are held at cost and transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment once construction Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income is complete and they enter into service.
They are depreciated from this statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
point in accordance with the policies described above.
Benefits receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are Aircraft overhaul expenditure also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Major overhaul expenditure on owned aircraft is capitalised when incurred and the resultant property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its Inventories useful economic life.
Major overhaul costs that are contractually required Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost on aircraft held under operating leases are provided for over the period comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and between the scheduled maintenance events.
those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the first-in, first-out Investment properties method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all Investment properties, which are properties held to earn rentals or for estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling capital appreciation, are stated at cost in the balance sheet.
Provision is made where necessary for obsolete, slow depreciated on a straight-line basis to their estimated residual value moving and defective items.
over their estimated useful lives of up to 50 years.
Rental income is recognised as revenue on a straight-line basis.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65 Accounting policies continued Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale The fair value of financial liabilities held at cost not at fair value through Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are profit or loss is adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
to the acquisition or issue of the liability.
Financial liabilities at fair value No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value: financial liabilities as held for sale.
not at fair value through profit or loss are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than Trade and other receivables through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost, reduced by sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within a year of the appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Allowances for balance sheet date.
The asset or disposal group should be available for irrecoverable amounts are made when there is evidence that the Group may immediate sale in its present condition and actively marketed at a price not be able to collect the amount due.
All trade receivables which are more that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value.
than six months overdue are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience.
Amounts Financial instruments which are less than six months overdue are provided where recovery of the Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance balance due is considered to be doubtful.
The impairment recorded is the sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the difference between the carrying value of the receivables and the present instrument.
Financial assets are recognised at trade date.
When initially value of the estimated future cash flows.
Any impairment required is recognised, financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value.
recorded in the income statement in administrative expenses.
The balance may be written off in full generally where receivables are in excess of 12 Financial assets months old.
At that time any amounts previously provided for impairment The classification of financial assets depends on the purpose for which the are released.
Management determines the classification of an asset at initial recognition and re-evaluates the designation at each reporting date.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and bank deposits Financial assets are categorised and subsequently valued as follows: with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that Assets held at fair value through profit or loss are those categorised as held are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash for trading under IAS 39 and are classified as current assets or non-current management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents assets dependent upon maturity.
Such financial assets are subsequently for the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or Bank borrowings determinable payments which are not quoted in an active market.
These Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the amount are classified as current or non-current assets dependent upon maturity of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Borrowing costs, net of and included within trade and other receivables.
Loans and receivables amounts capitalised, including premiums payable on settlement or also includes cash and cash equivalents.
The fair value of these financial redemption and direct issue costs, are charged to the income statement and assets is adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable to are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they the acquisition or issue of the asset.
Subsequent to initial recognition, are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Borrowing costs that are loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective directly attributable to relevant property, plant and equipment are interest method.
capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
None of the Groups material financial assets fall into the held to maturity Trade payables or available for sale categories which are defined as follows: Trade payables do not carry any interest and are stated at their Held to maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with nominal value.
fixed maturity dates which the Group intends to hold to maturity.
Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting either designated by management as available for sale or not falling into As explained in note 24, the Groups activities expose it primarily to the any of the above categories.
financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts Financial liabilities to reduce these exposures and does not use derivative financial instruments Financial liabilities are categorised on initial recognition as held for trading for speculative purposes.
Other derivative financial instruments may be used under IAS 39 and are held at fair value through profit or loss, or other from time to time to hedge other exposures such as inflation risks.
liabilities, which are held at amortised cost.
All financial liabilities are classified as current or non-current liabilities dependent upon the The Group has documented its risk management objectives and strategy maturity date of the instruments.
for undertaking various hedge transactions, and utilises hedge accounting principles in relation to interest rate swaps.
These are designated as cash Derivative financial instruments are categorised as held for trading flow hedges which mitigate the Groups exposure to changes in interest unless they are designated as hedges.
rates arising on floating rate debt.
From time to time, the Group may also use interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to changes in the fair value Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 66 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information of fixed rate borrowings: however, there are no such contracts outstanding Provisions at the present time.
A provision is required when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that settlement will Foreign exchange contracts entered into to mitigate foreign exchange be required at an amount that can be reliably estimated.
impacts of trading in non-functional currencies, and inflation swaps entered into to mitigate inflation risks, are not accounted for using hedge accounting.
Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of sale of the Foreign currency borrowings are used to hedge the effects of changes in relevant products, at managements best estimates of the expenditure the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
These borrowings either required to settle the Groups liabilities, based on past experience and provide a natural economic hedge through the use of intercompany debt or industry averages for defective products.
are designated as fair value hedges of the foreign currency risk attributable to the foreign equity investment and are treated as net investment hedges.
Contract loss provisions are recognised for onerous contracts when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
date the contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on Aircraft maintenance provisions are established in respect of significant whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the periodic maintenance costs, where maintenance activity is required on nature of the item being hedged.
leased operational aircraft or engines on a cycle greater than 12 months.
Costs are charged to the income statement on the basis of utilisation of the Where hedge accounting is applied, the relationship between hedging aircraft and are credited to the provision.
The provision is then utilised by instruments and hedged items is documented at the inception of the absorbing the actual costs incurred in carrying out the maintenance activity.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge Maintenance carried out on a cycle of 12 months or less is charged to the inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives used in income statement as incurred.
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows or fair values if appropriate of hedged items.
Provisions also arise in connection with leased aircraft, where contracts contain specific conditions regarding the configuration of the aircraft Where interest rate swaps are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, on its return to the lessor at the end of the lease.
The estimated cost the effective portion of changes in fair value is recognised in OCI through associated with fulfilling these requirements is charged to the income the hedging reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is statement on an aircraft utilisation basis.
The provision is utilised on actual recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated return of the aircraft or on incurring the expenditure required to return the in equity are reclassified to finance income and finance costs in the income aircraft to the state of maintenance required by the lease before return of statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
the aircraft to the lessor.
When a cash flow hedging derivative expires or is sold, or when a hedge no Provisions for claims made against the Group and commitments made under longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss performance guarantees are recognised at managements best estimates of existing in the hedging reserve in equity at that time remains in equity and the expenditure required to settle the Groups liabilities.
is recognised in the income statement when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
If a hedged transaction is Provisions are discounted at an appropriate risk-free rate when the impact no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in is material.
the hedging reserve in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement in that period.
Pensions The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined Where net investment hedging applies, the exchange differences arising contribution schemes.
on the borrowings designated as fair value hedges are recognised in OCI and through profit and loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
For defined benefit schemes the amounts charged to operating profit are the current service costs.
Gains and losses on settlements and curtailments The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a current asset or arising on a business divestment are included in profit on divestment.
Past liability except when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement if the than 12 months.
If the benefits have not vested, the costs are recognised over the period until vesting occurs.
The expected return on Where hedge accounting is not applied, the movements in fair value of assets and interest cost are shown within finance income and finance costs.
the derivative instruments are included in the income statement as part Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in OCI.
The fair value of such derivatives is classified as a current or non-current asset or liability dependent upon the expected Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held realisation of the assets or settlement of the liabilities.
separately from those of the Group, in separate trustee administered funds.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities.
The actuarial Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 67 Accounting policies continued valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance Accounting standards not yet effective sheet date.
The resulting net defined benefit asset or liability is presented A number of new standards, amendments to existing standards and separately on the face of the balance sheet.
interpretations have been published that are mandatory for future accounting periods, subject to EU endorsement.
From 1 January 2013 For defined contribution schemes the amounts charged to the income these are as follows: statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits are the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement payable in the year and contributions actually paid are recorded as either Amendment to IAS 12 Deferred tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits Amendment to IAS 1 Financial Statement Presentation Share capital Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures offsetting Ordinary share capital is classified as equity.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual Amendment to IFRS 1 First time adoption Government loans arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that Annual Improvements 2011 evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase on a Surface Mine all of its liabilities.
IAS 27 revised 2011 Separate financial statements IAS 28 revised 2011 Associates and joint ventures Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entities a specific date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary.
Dividends on preference share None of these have been adopted early by the Group.
capital classified as liabilities are recognised in the income statement as finance costs.
The implementation of IFRS 13 will require some amendments to disclosures on financial instruments but is not anticipated to affect the fair Treasury shares value measurements used.
The amendment to IAS 19 will change the basis When ordinary share capital recognised as equity is acquired by the of calculating the expected return on assets held in pension schemes from Company, the shares are held as treasury shares.
The consideration paid, a market yield basis to a government bond yield basis.
Administrative costs including commissions and taxes, is deducted from retained earnings and and finance costs in the income statement will increase by approximately total equity.
The proceeds of any treasury shares subsequently sold or 1m each and the comparative results will be re-presented in the financial re-issued, net of commission and taxes, are recognised as an increase in statements for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The amendment to IAS 1 retained earnings and total equity.
will impact the presentation of items within OCI, grouping items on the basis of whether they can, or cannot, be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss.
Share-based payments For grants made under the Groups equity settled share-based payment None of the other amendments or interpretations are expected to have an schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of options awarded as at impact on the Groups financial reporting.
the time of grant are charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
There are also a number of new standards and amendments to existing standards which, once endorsed by the EU, will be effective from 1 January The valuation methodology for all schemes is based on the Black-Scholes 2014 and 2015.
Management continue model, modified where required to allow for the impact of market related to assess the impact of these changes on the future reporting of the performance criteria and taking into account all non-vesting conditions.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 68
