Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors A copy of the financial statements of the Group is placed on the Companys website.
Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of statutory and and regulations.
audited information on the Companys website at www.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different financial year.
The Directors have prepared the Group and parent company financial legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other as adopted by the European Union.
Directors must not approve the financial jurisdictions.
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of The Directors of Land Securities Group PLC as at the date of this announcement affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit and loss of the Group and are as set out below: Company for that period.
Alison Carnwath, Chairman In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required to: Robert Noel, Chief Executive select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Martin Greenslade, Chief Financial Officer make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Richard Akers, Executive Director state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Union have been David Rough followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Sir Stuart Rose financial statements: and Kevin OByrne prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it is Chris Bartram inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
Simon Palley Stacey Rauch appointed 1 January 2012 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with By order of the Board reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group Adrian fide Souza and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 15 May 2012 Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors responsibility statement Each of the Directors, whose names are listed below, confirm to the best of their knowledge that: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the management reports which are incorporated into the Report of the Directors contained in the Annual Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
