INVESTOR RESOURCE Glossary Adjusted earnings per share EPS Joint venture required to distribute at least 90% of those profits to shareholders.
Corporation Earnings per share based on revenue profit after related tax.
An entity in which the Group holds an interest and is jointly controlled by the tax is payable on non-qualifying activities in the normal way.
Group and one or more partners under a contractual arrangement.
Decisions on Adjusted net asset value NAV per share Rental value change financial and operating policies essential to the operation, performance and NAV per share adjusted to remove the effect of the fide-recognition of the 2004 Increase or decrease in the current rental value, as determined by the Groups financial position of the venture require each partners consent.
bond exchange and cumulative fair value movements on interest-rate swaps and external valuers, over the reporting period on a like-for-like basis.
Lease incentives Rental income Any incentive offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically the incentive will Adjusted net debt Rental income is as reported in the income statement, on an accruals basis, and be an initial rent-free period, or a cash contribution to t-out or similar costs.
For Net debt excluding cumulative fair value movements on interest-rate swaps, and adjusted for the spreading of lease incentives over the term certain of the lease in accounting purposes the value of the incentive is spread over the non-cancellable the adjustment arising from the fide-recognition of the bond exchange and accordance with SIC 15.
It is stated gross, prior to the deduction of ground rents life of the lease.
amounts payable under finance leases.
and without deduction for operational outgoings on car park and LIBOR commercialisation activities.
Average unexpired lease term The London Interbank Offered Rate, the interest rate charged by one bank to The weighted average of the unexpired term of all leases other than short-term Retail Portfolio another for lending money, often used as a reference rate in bank facilities.
lettings such as car parks and advertising hoardings, temporary lettings of less This business segment includes our shopping centres, shops, retail warehouse than one year, residential leases and long ground leases.
Like-for-like portfolio properties, the Accor portfolio and assets held in retail joint ventures but not The like-for-like portfolio includes all properties which have been in the portfolio central London shops.
Book value since 1 April 2010, but excluding those which are acquired, sold or included in the The amount at which assets and liabilities are reported in the financial statements.
Retail warehouse park development pipeline at any time during the period.
2 A scheme of three or more retail warehouse units aggregating over 5,000m with BREEAM Like-for-like managed properties shared parking.
Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Method.
Properties in the like-for-like portfolio other than those in our joint ventures which Return on average capital employed Combined portfolio we do not manage operationally.
Group profit before interest, plus joint venture profit before interest, divided by The combined portfolio is our wholly-owned investment property portfolio Loan-to-value LTV the average capital employed dened as shareholders funds plus adjusted net combined with our share of the properties held in joint ventures.
Unless stated Group LTV is the ratio of adjusted net debt, including joint ventures, to the sum debt.
otherwise, references are to the combined portfolio when the investment of the market value of investment properties and the book value of trading property business is discussed.
Return on average equity properties of both the Group and joint ventures, expressed as a percentage.
For Group profit before tax plus joint venture tax divided by the average equity Completed developments the Security Group, LTV is the ratio of net debt lent to the Security Group divided shareholders funds.
Completed developments consist of those properties previously included in the by the value of secured assets.
development programme, which have been transferred from the development Revenue profit London Portfolio programme since 1 April 2010. profit before tax, excluding profits on the sale of non-current assets and trading This business segment includes all London ofces, central London shops and properties, profits on long-term development contracts, valuation surpluses, fair Development pipeline assets held in London joint ventures.
value movements on interest-rate swaps and similar instruments used for hedging The development programme together with proposed developments.
Market value purposes, the adjustment to interest payable resulting from the amortisation of Development programme Market value is determined by the Groups external valuers, in accordance with the bond exchange fide-recognition, debt restructuring charges and any items of an The development programme consists of committed developments Board the RICS Valuation Standards, as an opinion of the estimated amount for which unusual nature.
approved projects with the building contract let, authorised developments a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and Reversionary or under-rented Board approved, projects under construction and developments which have a willing seller in an arms-length transaction after proper marketing.
Space where the passing rent is below the ERV.
reached practical completion within the last two years but are not yet 95% let.
Mark-to-market adjustment Reversionary yield Diluted gures An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset or liability to its The anticipated yield to which the initial yield will rise or fall once the rent Reported results adjusted to include the effects of potential dilutive shares market value.
issuable under employee share schemes.
Net asset value NAV per share Scrip dividend Earnings per share EPS Equity attributable to owners of the Parent divided by the number of ordinary Land Securities offers its shareholders the opportunity to receive dividends in the profit after taxation attributable to owners of the Parent divided by the weighted shares in issue at the period end.
form of shares instead of cash.
This is known as a Scrip dividend.
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Net initial yield Security Group EPRA Net initial yield is a calculation by the Groups external valuers of the yield that Security Group is the principal funding vehicle for Land Securities and properties European Public Real Estate Association.
would be received by a purchaser, based on the Estimated Net Rental Income held in the Security Group are mortgaged for the benefit of lenders.
It has the expressed as a percentage of the acquisition cost, being the market value plus exibility to raise a variety of different forms of finance.
EPRA net initial yield assumed usual purchasers costs at the reporting date.
The calculation is in line EPRA net initial yield is dened within EPRAs Best Practice Recommendations as with EPRA guidance.
Temporary lettings the annualised rental income based on the cash rents passing at the balance sheet Estimated Net Rental Income is the passing cash rent less ground rent at Lettings for a period of one year or less.
These are included within voids.
date, less non-recoverable property operating expenses, divided by the gross the balance sheet date, estimated non-recoverable outgoings and void costs market value of the property.
It is consistent with the net initial yield calculated Topped-up net initial yield including service charges, insurance costs and void rates.
by the Groups external valuers.
Topped-up net initial yield is a calculation by the Groups external valuers.
It is Outline planning consent calculated by making an adjustment to net initial yield in respect of the annualised Equivalent yield This gives consent in principle for a development, and covers matters such as use cash rent foregone through unexpired rent-free periods and other lease incentives.
Calculated by the Groups external valuers, equivalent yield is the internal rate of The calculation is consistent with EPRA guidance.
Full details of the development scheme must be provided in return from an investment property, based on the gross outlays for the purchase of an application for reserved matters approval, including detailed layout, scale, a property including purchase costs, reecting reversions to current market rent, Total business return appearance, access and landscaping, before a project can proceed.
An outline and such items as voids and non-recoverable expenditure ignoring future changes Dividend paid per share, plus the change in adjusted diluted net asset value per planning permission will lapse if the submission of reserved matters have not in capital value.
The calculation assumes rent is received annually in arrears.
share, divided by the adjusted diluted net asset value per share at the beginning been made within three years, or if it has not been implemented within three years of the year.
Gross estimated rental value ERV or within two years of the final approval of reserved matters, unless otherwise The estimated market rental value of lettable space as determined biannually expressly stated within conditions attached to the permission itself or, for any Total development cost TDC by the Groups external valuers.
permissions granted on or before 1 October 2009, a successful application has Total development cost refers to the book value of the land at the commencement been made to extend the time within which reserved matters application can of the project, the estimated capital expenditure required to develop the scheme Fair value movement be submitted, or the overall limit for commencement of development.
from the start of the financial year in which the property is added to our An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset or liability to its development programme, together with capitalised interest.
Over-rented Space where the passing rent is above the ERV.
Total property return Finance lease Valuation surplus, profit loss on property sales and net rental income in respect A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership from the Passing cash rent of investment properties expressed as a percentage of opening book value, lessor to the lessee.
The estimated annual rent receivable as at the reporting date which includes together with the time weighted value for capital expenditure incurred during the estimates of turnover rent and estimates of rent to be agreed in respect of Gearing current year, on the combined property portfolio.
outstanding rent review or lease renewal negotiations.
Passing cash rent may be Total borrowings, including bank overdrafts, less short-term deposits, corporate more or less than the ERV see over-rented, reversionary and ERV.
Passing cash Total Shareholder Return TSR bonds and cash, at book value, plus cumulative fair value movements on financial rent excludes annual rent receivable from units in administration save to the The growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that derivatives as a percentage of total equity.
For adjusted gearing, see note 29 in the extent that rents are expected to be received.
Void units and units that are in a dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of the stock.
rent-free period at the reporting date are deemed to have no passing cash rent.
Trading properties Gross market value Although temporary lets of less than 12 months are treated as void, income from Properties held for trading purposes and shown as current assets in the balance Market value plus assumed usual purchasers costs at the reporting date.
temporary lets is included in passing cash rents.
Head lease Pre-let Turnover rent A lease under which the Group holds an investment property.
A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of a development.
Rental income which is related to an occupiers turnover.
Interest Cover Ratio ICR Property income distribution PID Voids A calculation of a companys ability to meet its interest payments on outstanding A PID is a distribution by a REIT to its shareholders paid out of qualifying profits.
Voids are expressed as a percentage of ERV and represent all unlet space, including debt.
It is calculated using revenue profit before interest, divided by net interest A REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of its qualifying profits as a PID to its voids where refurbishment work is being carried out and voids in respect of excluding the mark-to-market movement on interest-rate swaps, bond exchange shareholders.
Temporary lettings for a period of one year or less fide-recognition, capitalised interest and interest on the pension scheme assets and Proposed developments are also treated as voids.
The calculation excludes joint ventures.
Proposed developments are properties which have not yet received final Board Weighted average cost of capital WACC Interest-rate swap approval or are still subject to main planning conditions being satisfied, but which Weighted average cost of debt and notional cost of equity, used as a benchmark A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange an interest rate are more likely to proceed than not.
obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
These are generally used by the Qualifying activities Qualifying assets Group to convert oating-rate debt or investments to xed rates.
Yield shift The ownership activity of property assets which is held to earn rental income A movement negative or positive in the equivalent yield of a property asset.
Investment portfolio and qualies for tax-exempt treatment income and capital gains under UK REIT The investment portfolio comprises the Groups wholly-owned investment legislation.
Zone A properties together with the properties held for development.
A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of retail space by dividing it Real Estate Investment Trust REIT into zones parallel with the main frontage.
The most valuable zone, Zone A, is at A REIT must be a publicly quoted company with at least three-quarters of its the front of the unit.
Each successive zone is valued at half the rate of the zone in profits and assets derived from a qualifying property rental business.
capital gains from the property rental business are exempt from tax but the REIT is Land Securities Annual Report 2012 171 Forward-looking statements These Annual Results, our Annual Report and the Land Securities website may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to Land Securities Group PLC and the Groups financial condition, results of operations and business, and certain of Land Securities Group PLC and the Groups plans, objectives, goals and expectations with respect to these items.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identied by their use of a date in the future or such words as anticipates, aims, due, could, may, should, expects, believes, intends, plans, targets, goal or estimates.
By their very nature forward-looking statements are inherently unpredictable, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Many of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond the Groups ability to control or estimate precisely.
There are a number of such factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the economies and markets in which the Group operates: changes in the legal, regulatory and competition frameworks in which the Group operates: changes in the markets from which the Group raises finance: the impact of legal or other proceedings against or which affect the Group: changes in accounting practices and interpretation of accounting standards under IFRS, and changes in interest and exchange rates.
Any written or verbal forward-looking statements, made in these Annual Results, our Annual Report, or the Land Securities website or made subsequently, which are attributable to Land Securities Group PLC or any other member of the Group or persons acting on their behalf are expressly qualied in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of these Annual Results, our Annual Report, or on the date the forwardlooking statement is made.
Land Securities Group PLC does not intend to update any forward-looking statements.
172 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 Design by saslondon.
com Land Securities Group PLC Words by Tim Rich Copyright and trade mark notices Photography by Luke Hayes All rights reserved.
Board portrait by Philip Gatward Copyright 2012 Land Securities Group PLC.
Illustrations by Tom Jennings Hand lettering by Charles Stewart Land Securities, LandSecurities stylised, the Cornerstones logo and Making Property Work, are trade marks of Land Securities Group PLC.
All other trade marks and registered trade marks are the property of their respective owners.
This Report is printed on Hello Fat Matt and Naturalis paper and has been independently certied on behalf of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
Printed by Quadracolor, ISO9001, ISO14001, FSC certied and CarbonNeutral Land Securities Group PLC 5 Strand, London WC2N 5AF T 44 0 20 7413 9000 E investor.
