London & Stamford Property Plc 09 Report and Accounts 2012 Income statement Our confidence in the Central London residential market has profit for the year ended 31 March 2012 was 5.3 million ledus to agree a new joint venture with Green Park and another 2011:43.3 million.
Thejoint venture will be owned 40% by London & An important focus for management is the underlying profit Stamford, withthe two partners owning 30% each.
which this year has increased to 25.4 million 2011: 15.9 million.
Despite such a large part of our asset base being held in cash The joint venture will be primed with 200 million of equity, during the year, this represents an increase of60% in the year, funded by 80 million from by London & Stamford and the detail of which is set out on page 7.
The underlying protis 120million from the joint venture partners.
We are working, identied as the sustainable net rent after net finance costs and through our solicitors, to acquire over 150 million of residential overheads, inclusive of realised surpluses on sales.
Itexcludes, assets for the joint venture and we are in advanced discussions inparticular, the accounting impact of the internalisation of the with a number of banks to provide gearing.
management of London & Stamford in2010and property We continue to explore the possibility that ultimately our Central andderivative valuations which are not expected torecur, London residential joint venture can become a residential REIT.
unlessdebt arrangements are repaid early.
Notwithstanding the changes in the draft Finance Bill 2012, which The increase in the underlying profit is a result of the full year we consider to be helpful, discussions continue with HMRC on impact of investment undertaken during 2010 and 2011 and changes which we believe are still required to the legislation to provides increasing evidence to support the dividend policy.
allow us toinvest efficiently, without adverse tax implications, Thedividend policy continues to be progressive, nothwithstanding asone REIT investing inanother REIT.
the Companys decision to hold significant cash balances in We have undertaken a small number of sales of units in the year, anticipation of improving investment opportunities.
The increasing selling 8 apartments in total, all at or ahead of book value.
cover providedby the underlying profit is evidence of the sustainability of income from the current investments we do make.
Meadowhall We consider the opportunity in the market of having significant cash fully compensates for the lack of short term returns.
Our 15.7% investment in the Meadowhall Shopping Centre, alongside Green Park and British Land, remains our only The component parts of underlying profit have changed during retailasset.
During the year we completed the 2.2 million the year.
As a result of the transfer of our AEW and Lojix acquisition into our joint venture of the surrounding lands.
distribution assets intojoint venture with Green Park early in the Together with our partners we have submitted an initial planning year, ournetrents suffered an annualised 9.2 million fall but with application for the development of the first 11.6 acres of the a corresponding annualised increase of 1.3 million in advisory 74acre site.
feeincome and 3.9 million in the share of profit of joint ventures.
We are delighted with progress at Meadowhall, where sales are The transfer into the joint venture generated a 41.8 million marginally increasing and although footfall in the year was steady, increase in our cash resources.
there was a 10% increase in April 2012 compared with a 2% Corporate overheads have fallen by 1.2 million 11% in the year, fallnationally.
due primarily to the advisory costs of REIT conversion, listing on the Main List of the London Stock Exchange and purchase of During the year the refurbishment of the Oasis food court LSIManagement LLP, the former Management Company having hascompleted and has been the catalyst for the introduction been incurred in the previous financial year.
Likefor like, ofanumber of new brands to the Centre, including Giraffe, overheads have remained broadly in line.
Harvester, Chao Baby and Rice.
Carluccios is currently tting outfor opening later in the year.
Capital growth in the portfolio has been weak this year, with net uplifts being only c. 1% of the portfolio.
The impact of weak Meadowhall has not been able to avoid entirely the impacts upliftsin theyear alongside the adverse accounting adjustments oftheeconomic downturn and has suffered a number of for internalisation of 17.4 million and mark to market hedging administrations and liquidations, although on a positive note, derivatives have brought profit for the year down from there have been a number of very notable relets and assignments 43.3million in 2011 to 5.3 million this year.
of units falling into administration.
The tax charge of 1.1 million comprises a deferred tax charge In total, during the year 33 new leases were completed for of1.8 million offset by a corporation tax credit of 0.7 million.
Notable new store openings included Boux Avenue, Last year the tax charge was significant 12.3 million, Bose, Internationale, Vans and TK Maxx.
Urban Outtters opens representing, in large part, REIT entry charges.
its new agship store in June.
In addition, 14existing tenants have signed lease renewals.
Net finance costs and interest rate management Careful consideration is given to the management of our interest exposure across the various debt arrangements we have.
Currently our hedging arrangements are a combination of interest rate swaps, caps, oating rate debt and xed interest borrowings.
Our current cost of borrowing is 4.12%.
Although there has been an 8.9 million charge in respect of the change in the fair value of derivatives all of the adverse movement was in respect of the first half of the year 10.2million, with an improvement of 1.3 million in the secondhalf of the year.
In managing our interest rate risk, we take independent advice, details of which are regularly discussed at Board meetings.
Financial statements Governance Operating and financial review Ov Ove er rv vie iew w
