London & Stamford Property Plc 49 Report and Accounts 2012 Independent auditors report to the members of London & Stamford Property Plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed of London & Stamford Property Plc for the year ended 31 March by the Companies Act 2006 2012 which comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet and In our opinion: the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted 2006: and Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors report for the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, period for which the financial statements are prepared is in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required Matters on which we are required to report by exception to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the in our opinion: Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the Parent Company financial statements and the part of responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not of the Parent Company financial statements and for being in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those we have not received all the information and explanations standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices we require for our audit.
Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the Group financial A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements of London & Stamford Property Plc for the year statements is provided on the APBs website at ended 31 March 2012. www.
Russell Field Opinion on financial statements Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: London give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as United Kingdom 30 May 2012 at 31 March 2012: BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales have been properly prepared in accordance with United with registered number OC305127.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Financial statements Governance Operating and financial review Overview
