London & Stamford Property Plc 20 Report and Accounts 2012 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Website publication and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law The Directors are responsible for ensuring the annual report and regulations.
andthe financial statements are made available on a website.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Financial statements are published on the Companys website in statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing the are required to prepare the Group financial statements in preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and have elected to integrity of the companys website is the responsibility of the prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with Directors.
The Directors responsibility also extends to the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
UnitedKingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Directors responsibilities pursuant to DTR4 Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the the Group financial statements have been prepared in profit or loss for the Group for that period.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of requiredto: theIAS Regulation and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Group: and s elect suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the financial position of m ake judgements and accounting estimates that are the Group and the Parent Company, together with a reasonable and prudent: description or the principal risks and uncertainties that they state whether they have been prepared in accordance with face.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any Approved by the Board on 30 May 2012 and signed on its material departures disclosed and explained in the financial behalfby statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Martin McGann unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Finance Director continue in business: prepare a Directors report and Directors remuneration reportwhich comply with the requirements of the CompaniesAct 2006.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 ofthe IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
