Shareholder information Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 133 I Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the twelfth Annual General Meeting of Compass Group PLC the Company will be held in the This document is important and Churchill Auditorium at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE requires your immediate attention.
on Thursday, 7 February 2013 at 12 noon in order to transact If you are in any doubt as to the action the following business: you should take, you should immediately To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions, of consult your stockbroker, bank manager, which Resolutions 19 to 21 will be proposed as special resolutions solicitor, accountant or other independent and all other Resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
financial advisor authorised under the 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Annual Report and Accounts Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. and the Auditors Report thereon for the financial year ended If you have sold or otherwise transferred 30 September 2012. all your shares in Compass Group PLC, 2.
T o receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report please send this Notice and the contained within the Annual Report and Accounts for the accompanying documents to the financial year ended 30 September 2012. purchaser or transferee, or to the 3.
To declare a final dividend of 14.1 pence per ordinary share stockbroker, bank or other agent through in respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2012. whom the sale or transfer was effected for 4.
To re-elect Sir Roy Gardner as a Director of the Company.
transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
To elect Dominic Blakemore as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Richard Cousins as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Gary Green as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Andrew Martin as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect John Bason as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Sir James Crosby as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Susan Murray as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Don Robert as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Sir Ian Robinson as a Director of the Company.
T o re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys Auditor until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
To authorise the Directors to agree the Auditors remuneration.
To authorise the Company and any company which is, or becomes, a subsidiary of the Company during the period to which this Resolution relates to: 16.1 make donations to political parties or independent election candidates: 1 6.2 ma ke donations to political organisations other than political parties: and 16.3 incur political expenditure, during the period commencing on the date of this Resolution and ending on the date of the Companys next Annual General Meeting, provided that any such donations and expenditure made by the Company, or by any such subsidiary, shall not exceed 125,000 per company and, together with those made by any such subsidiary and the Company, shall not exceed in aggregate 125,000.
See this Report and our full Corporate Any terms used in this Resolution which are defined in Part 14 Responsibility Report online at of the Companies Act 2006 shall bear the same meaning for the www.
com ar12 purposes of this Resolution 16.
