Shareholder information Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 137 I iii Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Important information Regulations 2001 and section 360B 2 of the CA 2006, the Proxies Company specifies that only those Shareholders registered in i A S hareholder entitled to attend and vote at the 2013 AGM may the Register of Members of the Company as at 6.00 p. m. on appoint a proxy or proxies who need not be a shareholder of Tuesday, 5 February 2013 or, in the event that the Meeting is the Company to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend, adjourned, in the Register of Members 48 hours before the time speak and vote at the AGM.
Where more than one proxy is of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at appointed, each proxy must be appointed for different shares.
the Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at the relevant time.
Changes to entries on the Register of Proxies may only be appointed by: Members after 6.00 p. m. on 5 February 2013 or, in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, less than 48 hours before the time of completing and returning the Form of Proxy enclosed with any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the this Notice to PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
com and following the Nominated Persons instructions for electronic submission provided there: or Any person to whom a copy of this Notice is sent who is a person by having an appropriate CREST message transmitted, if you nominated under section 146 of the CA 2006 to enjoy information are a user of the CREST system including CREST personal rights Nominated Person may, under an agreement between members.
Please refer to the CREST manual on the Euroclear him or her and the Shareholder by whom he or she was nominated, website www.
com CREST for further information.
have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy Return of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a Shareholder appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he or she may, from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
However, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the if you do attend the Meeting, any proxy appointment will be Shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of Shareholders in relation to the The electronic addresses provided in this Notice are provided appointment of proxies in note i above does not apply to solely for the purpose of enabling Shareholders to register the Nominated Persons.
The rights described in that note can only appointment of a proxy or proxies for the Meeting or to submit be exercised by Shareholders of the Company.
You may not use any electronic address provided in the Notice of this Meeting to Shareholder rights and AGM business communicate with the Company for any purposes other than Under section 338 and section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, those expressly stated.
Shareholders meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company i to give to Shareholders of ii T o be effective the Form of Proxy must be completed in the Company entitled to receive notice of the AGM, notice of a accordance with the instructions and received by the Registrars resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be of the Company by 12 noon on Tuesday, 5 February 2013. moved at the AGM and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the AGM any matter other than a proposed resolution which To appoint a proxy or to give an instruction to a previously may be properly included in the business.
A resolution may properly appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business must be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 12 noon on unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be Tuesday, 5 February 2013.
Please note, however, that proxy ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment messages cannot be sent through CREST on weekends, bank or the Companys constitution or otherwise, b it is defamatory, or holidays or after 8.00 p. m. on any other day.
For the purpose of c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy this deadline, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as or electronic form and must identify the resolution of which notice determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received to retrieve the message.
CREST personal members or other by the Company not later than 27 December 2012, being the date CREST sponsored members and those CREST members that six clear weeks before the AGM, and in the case of a matter to be have appointed voting service provider s should contact their included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with setting out the grounds for the request.
Right to ask questions For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and Under section 319A of the CA 2006, Shareholders have the right system timings, please refer to the CREST manual.
We may to ask questions at the AGM relating to the business of the Meeting treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the and for these to be answered, unless such answer would interfere circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated unduly with the business of the Meeting, involve the disclosure of Securities Regulations 2001, as amended.
confidential information, if the answer has already been published on the Companys website or if it is not in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting that the question be answered.
Great College Street Queen Annes Gate.
Old Queen Street 138 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Notice of meeting Website publication of audit concerns Information available on website Under section 527 of the CA 2006, Shareholders have a right to The following information is available on the Companys website at request publication of any concerns that they propose to raise at www.
com: the AGM relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be i T he matters set out in this Notice of Meeting: submitted to the Meeting or any circumstances connected to the ii T he total voting rights and number of shares of each class in Companys Auditor who ceased to hold office since the last AGM.
The respect of which Shareholders a re entitled to exercise voting Company will publish the statement if sufficient requests have been rights at the AGM: received in accordance with section 527 2 of the CA 2006 which, iii Sha reholders rights to include business to be dealt with at the broadly, requires a minimum of 100 Shareholders holding an average AGM: and of 1,000 ordinary shares each or Shareholders holding at least 5% of iv Shareholders statements, resolutions and matters of business the Companys issued ordinary share capital to make the request.
The received by the Company after 20 December 2012.
Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with such request.
Where Time of the AGM a statement is published, the Company will forward the statement to The doors of The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre will be the Companys Auditor not later than the time when it makes the open at 10.30 a. m. and the AGM will start promptly at 12 noon.
statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been If you are planning to attend the AGM, The Queen Elizabeth II required under section 527 of the CA 2006 to publish on its website.
Conference Centre is located in the City of Westminster.
Documents available for inspection Copies of the service agreements of the Executive Directors, the Attending the AGM letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors, the Directors If you are coming to the AGM, please bring your attendance card deeds of indemnity, the Register of Directors Interests and the with you.
It authenticates your right to attend, speak and vote at the proposed amended LTIP rules will be available for inspection during AGM and will speed your admission.
You may also find it useful to normal business hours from the date of dispatch of this Notice until bring this Notice of AGM and the Annual Report 2012 so that you the date of the AGM Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays can refer to them at the AGM.
All joint Shareholders may attend and excepted at the registered office of the Company and will also be speak at the AGM.
However, only the first Shareholder listed on the made available at the Meeting for a period of 15 minutes prior to and Register of Members is entitled to vote.
At the discretion of the during the continuance of the Meeting.
Company, and subject to sufficient seating capacity, a Shareholder may enter with one guest, provided that the Shareholder and their Total voting rights guest register to enter the AGM at the same time.
As at 1 December 2012 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital Questions comprised 1,843,055,378 ordinary shares.
The holders of ordinary All Shareholders or their proxies will have the opportunity to ask shares are entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the questions at the AGM.
When invited by the Chairman, if you wish to Company.
On a vote by show of hands, every ordinary Shareholder ask a question, please wait for a Company representative to bring who is present has one vote and every proxy present who has been you a microphone.
It would be helpful if you could state your name duly appointed by a Shareholder entitled to vote has one vote.
On a before you ask your question.
A question may not be answered at vote by poll every ordinary Shareholder who is present in person or by the Meeting if it is not considered to be in the interests of the proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held.
It is proposed that all Company or the good order of the Meeting or if it would involve the votes on the Resolutions at the AGM will be taken by way of a poll.
The Chairman may also nominate a representative to answer a specific question after the Meeting or The total voting rights in the Company as at 1 December 2012 refer the question to the Companys website.
St. Jamess Park Queen Elizabeth II Main entrance Westminster Conference Centre Birdcage Walk Parliament Square Lewisham Street St. Margarets Houses of Parliament Westminster Abbey St. Jamess Park New Scotland Yard Old Pye Street King Charles Street Great George Street Westminster Bridge Parker St. Tothill Street Broadway To Victoria Station Broad Sanctuary Victoria Street Broadway Dartmouth Street Horse Guards Rd.
Matthew Great Smith Street Storeys Gate Tufton Street St. Margaret Street Parliament Street Victoria Embankment Abingdon Street Shareholder information Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 139 I Voting at the AGM Security The Company proposes that all Resolutions to be proposed at Security staff will be on duty to assist Shareholders.
The Company the AGM will be put to the vote on a poll.
This will result in a more will not permit behaviour that may interfere with another persons accurate reflection of the views of all of the Companys Shareholders security, safety or the good order of the AGM.
by ensuring that every vote is recognised, including the votes of Shareholders who are unable to attend the Meeting but who have Shareholder enquiries appointed a proxy for the Meeting.
On a poll, each Shareholder has Capita Registrars maintain the Companys share register.
If you one vote for each share held.
have any enquiries about the AGM or about your shareholding, you should contact Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham After each Resolution is put to the Meeting, you will be asked to cast Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
All of the votes of the Shareholders present will be counted, and added to those received by proxy, and the provisional final votes American Depositary Receipt enquiries will be displayed on a screen at the front of the Meeting.
BNY Mellon maintains the Companys American Depositary Receipt register.
If you have any enquiries about your holding The voting results, which will include all votes cast for and against of Compass American Depositary shares, you should contact each Resolution at the Meeting, and all proxies lodged prior to the BNY Mellon, Shareowner Services, PO Box 358516, Pittsburgh, Meeting, will be announced at the Meeting and published on the PA 15252-8516, USA.
Companys website as soon as practicable after the Meeting.
The Company will also disclose the number of votes withheld.
Data protection statement Your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on your If you have already voted by proxy, you will still be able to vote at the behalf, which relates to you as a Shareholder, including your name Meeting and your vote on the day will replace your previously lodged and contact details, the votes you cast and your Reference Number proxy vote.
attributed to you by the Company.
The Company determines the purposes for which and the manner in which your personal data is to be processed.
The Company and any third party to which it Not attending the AGM discloses the data including the Companys Registrar may process Whomever you appoint as a proxy can vote or abstain from voting your personal data for the purposes of compiling and updating the as he or she decides on any other business, which may validly come Companys records, fulfilling its legal obligations and processing the before the AGM.
This includes proxies appointed using the CREST Shareholder rights you exercise.
Details of how to complete the appointment of a proxy either electronically or on paper are given in the notes to this Notice.
Published information If you would like to receive this Notice and or a copy of the Annual Venue arrangements Report 2012 in an appropriate alternative format, such as large print, For security reasons, all hand baggage may be subject to Braille or an audio version on CD, please contact the Group Company examination.
Please note that laptop computers, recording equipment, Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, Compass House, Guildford cameras and similar such equipment may not be brought into the Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ.
Briefcases, umbrellas and other bulky items should be deposited in the cloakroom, situated on the ground floor.
Please ensure that all electronic equipment is switched off throughout the AGM.
Tea and coffee will be available before the Meeting and light refreshments will be served afterwards.
The following facilities will be available at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre: sound amplification hearing loop: wheelchair access: and sign language interpreters.
Anyone accompanying a Shareholder in need of assistance will be admitted to the AGM.
If any Shareholder with a disability has any question regarding attendance at the AGM, please contact the Group Company Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ by 31 January 2013.
See this Report and our full Corporate Responsibility Report online at www.
com ar12 140 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Index to the consolidated financial statements Note Page Forward-looking statements Certain information included in this Annual Report and Accounts Directors responsibilities 66 is forward-looking and involves risks, assumptions and uncertainties Independent auditors report 67 that could cause actual results to differ materially from those Consolidated income statement 68 expressed or implied by forward-looking statements.
Analysis of operating profit 68 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 69 Forward-looking statements cover all matters which are not historical Consolidated statement of changes in equity 70 facts and include, without limitation, projections relating to results Consolidated balance sheet 72 of operations and financial conditions and the Companys plans Consolidated cash flow statement 73 and objectives for future operations, including, without limitation, Reconciliation of free cash flow from continuing operations 73 discussions of expected future revenues, financing plans, expected Accounting policies 74 expenditures and divestments, risks associated with changes in 1 Segmental reporting 79 economic conditions, the strength of the food and support services 2 Operating costs 83 markets in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, fluctuations 3 Employees 84 in food and other product costs and prices and changes in exchange 4 Financing income, costs and related gains losses 85 and interest rates.
Forward-looking statements can be identified by 5 Gain on disposal of US Corrections business 86 the use of forward-looking terminology, including terms such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, forecasts, intends, 6 Gain on remeasurement of joint venture interest plans, projects, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could on acquisition of control 86 or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or 7 Tax 86 comparable terminology.
Forward-looking statements in this Annual 8 Discontinued operations 88 Report and Accounts are not guarantees of future performance.
All 9 Earnings per share 89 forward-looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are 10 Dividends 90 based upon information known to the Company on the date of this 11 Goodwill 91 Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, no assurance can be 12 Other intangible assets 92 given that any particular expectation will be met and readers are 13 Property, plant and equipment 93 cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, 14 Interests in associates 94 which speak only at their respective dates.
15 Other investments 94 16 Joint ventures 95 Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past trends or 17 Trade and other receivables 95 activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or 18 Inventories 97 activities will continue in the future.
Other than in accordance with its 19 Cash and cash equivalents 97 legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules 20 Short and long-term borrowings 97 and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update 21 Derivative financial instruments 99 or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new 22 Trade and other payables 105 information, future events or otherwise.
23 Provisions 105 24 Post-employment benefit obligations 106 Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts shall exclude any liability 25 Called up share capital 110 under applicable laws that cannot be excluded in accordance with 26 Share-based payments 112 such laws.
27 Business combinations 116 28 Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated by operations 117 29 Cash flow from discontinued operations 118 30 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 118 31 Contingent liabilities 119 32 Capital commitments 120 33 Operating lease and concessions commitments 120 34 Related party transactions 120 35 Post balance sheet events 120 36 Exchange rates 121 37 Details of principal subsidiary companies 122 Index to the Parent Company financial statements Note Page Directors responsibilities 123 Independent auditors report 124 Parent Company balance sheet 125 Parent Company accounting policies 126 1 Profit and loss account disclosures 127 This Report is printed on a combination of Revive 100 White Silk and Revive 100 Premium White Uncoated.
Revive 100 White Silk is produced using 100% recycled 2 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 127 waste, the pulp is bleached using a Totally Chlorine Free TCF process.
Revive 100 3 Debtors 127 Premium White Uncoated is produced using 100% post-consumer waste, the pulp 4 Creditors 128 is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free ECF process.
Both materials are 5 Provisions for liabilities and charges 129 Forest Stewardship Council FSC certified and are produced at mills that hold the ISO 14001 environmental management standard.
6 Maturity of financial liabilities, other creditors and derivative financial instruments 129 Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using vegetable inks and their and 7 Derivative financial instruments 129 printing technology.
Pureprint Group is ISO 9001:2000, ISO 14001, EMAS 8 Share capital 129 and FSC certified.
9 Capital and reserves 130 10 Contingent liabilities 130
