76 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2012 Fixed price contracts combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction Revenue from fixed price contracts is recognised in proportion that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
to the volume of services that the Group is contracted to supply in each period.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, Inter-segment transactions and interest in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to There is little or no intra-group trading between the reported business control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that segments.
Where such trading does take place it is on similar terms the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
and conditions to those available to third parties.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer H Rebates and other amounts received probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all from suppliers or part of the asset to be recovered.
Rebates and other amounts received from suppliers include agreed discounts from suppliers list prices, value and volume-related rebates.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
Income from value and volume-related rebates is recognised based on actual purchases in the period as a proportion of total purchases Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when made or forecast to be made over the rebate period.
they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on Agreed discounts relating to inventories are credited to the income a net basis.
statement as the goods are consumed.
M Intangible assets Rebates relating to items purchased but still held at the balance sheet Goodwill date are deducted from the carrying value of these items so that the Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of inventories is recorded net of applicable rebates.
cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, associate Rebates received in respect of plant and equipment are deducted or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually from the costs capitalised.
for impairment and is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
I Borrowing costs Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, Goodwill is allocated to each cash-generating unit CGU for the construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised as purpose of impairment testing.
A CGU is identified at the lowest part of the cost of that asset.
aggregation of assets that generate largely independent cash inflows, and that which is looked at by management for monitoring and managing the business.
This is generally the total business J Operating profit for a country.
However, in some instances, where there are distinct Operating profit is stated before the share of results of associates, separately managed business activities within a country, particularly investment revenue and finance costs.
if they fall within different secondary business segments, the CGU is identified at this lower level.
K Exceptional items If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying Exceptional items are disclosed and described separately in the amount, an impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
They are assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of material items of income or expense that have been shown separately each asset in the unit.
Any impairment is immediately recognised due to the significance of their nature or amount.
in the income statement and an impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
L Tax Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is On disposal, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the recognised in the income statement except where it relates to items determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
taken directly to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income or equity, in which case it is recognised in the consolidated statement Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to of comprehensive income or equity as appropriate.
IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated the period, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively and is not included in determining any subsequent gain or loss enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, Other intangible assets providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost or, if assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts acquired as part of a business combination, are capitalised at fair used for tax purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for value as at the date of the acquisition.
Internally generated intangible all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised assets are not capitalised.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available basis over the expected useful lives of the assets.
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business
