Governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 65 I Remuneration of other Senior Executives Shareholder vote on 2011 and Management Directors Remuneration Report A number of Senior Executives and the Executive Directors comprise The table below shows the voting outcome at the 3 February 2012 the Executive Committee.
These key management roles influence AGM for the 2011 Directors Remuneration Report.
the ability of the Group to meet its strategic targets.
The Committee Number of % of Number % of Total Number has regard to the remuneration level and structure of this group votes For & votes of votes votes number of of votes 1 whose total remuneration including salary and other short-term Discretionary cast Against cast votes cast Withheld benefits, target or par bonus and the expected value of long-term 1,307,140,437 93.40% 92,369,743 6.60% 1,399,510,180 21,294,395 incentives is summarised in note 3 on page 84 of the consolidated financial statements.
1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law.
Remuneration advice 93.40% of the votes cast were for the approval of the Directors The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive, together with Remuneration Report, with 6.60% against with 1.5% of the Jane Kingston Group Human Resources Director and Harriet Kemp total number of votes cast abstaining.
A vote withheld is not Director of Group Reward, are normally invited to attend each a vote in law.. Extensive consultation with shareholder bodies Committee meeting and provide advice and guidance to the and a number of large institutional investors was conducted Committee other than in respect of their own remuneration for during the year in connection with the proposed changes to the which they are not paid a fee in addition to their salaries from the performance measures under the LTIP.
The Committee welcomed Company under their service contracts.
the endorsement shown by Shareholders for the Directors Remuneration Report and took steps, wherever practicable, to understand Shareholders concerns when withholding their support.
The Committee also has access to detailed external information and research on market data and trends from independent consultants.
During the year, the Company retained  LLP On behalf of the Board PWC to advise on compensation-related matters, and specifically to undertake a benchmarking exercise in respect of the fees paid to its Non-Executive Directors, the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive, and to provide advice in relation to the proposed amendment to the performance conditions of the Companys LTIP, for which they received total fees of 172,000.
Sir James Crosby Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Alithos Limited Alithos provided information for the testing of the 21 November 2012 TSR performance conditions for the Companys long-term incentive plan awards, for which they received fees of 24,000.
They also provided the TSR performance graphs for the Directors Remuneration Report, for which they received a fee of 1,000.
Alithos was appointed by the Company in 2002 and PWC was appointed in 2007 renewed in 2011.
Both appointments were made with the approval of the Committee following a selection exercise.
Alithos did not provide any other advice or services to the Company during the year.
PWC provided services globally which comprised pension, expatriate, internal audit, merger and acquisition, due diligence, tax and other consultancy advice, for which they received total fees of 688,000 in addition to the fee they received for advising the Committee.
