Governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 55 I Andrew Martin in respect of his new role, percentage increases to Remuneration strategy and policy basic salary awards for Executive Directors and other members of Remuneration policy and components the Executive Committee during the year ended 30 September 2012 The Committee reviews the Companys remuneration philosophy were in line with those awarded to other employees in the Group and structure each year to ensure that the remuneration framework working in the same country in that period.
remains effective in supporting the Companys business objectives, is in line with best practice, and fairly rewards individuals for the The total remuneration package links corporate and individual contribution that they make to the business, having regard to the size performance with an appropriate balance between short and longand complexity of the Groups operations and the need to motivate term elements, and fixed and variable components.
The policy is and attract employees of the highest calibre.
designed to incentivise Executives to meet the Companys key objectives, such that a significant portion of total remuneration is The Committee intends that base salary and total remuneration of performance related, based on a mixture of internal targets linked Executive Directors should be in line with the market.
Remuneration to the Companys key business drivers which can be measured, is benchmarked against rewards available for equivalent roles in a understood and accepted by both Executives and Shareholders suitable comparator group with the aim of paying neither significantly and appropriate external comparator groups.
above nor below the median for each element of remuneration at par performance levels.
The Committee also considers general pay and The Committee considers that the targets set for the different employment conditions of all employees within the Group and is elements of performance related remuneration are both appropriate sensitive to these, to prevailing market and economic conditions, and demanding in the context of the business environment and the and to governance trends when assessing the level of salaries and challenges with which the Group is faced as well as complying with remuneration packages of Executive Directors and other members of the provisions of the Code.
Save for a promotional increase awarded to Elements of package The key elements of Executive Directors remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2012 and the year ending 30 September 2013 are summarised below: Element Reason Mechanics Base Salary The provision of a Base salaries are reviewed annually, appropriately benchmarked and reflect the role, job size and competitive core responsibility as well as performance and effectiveness of the individual.
package of base The Group Chief Executives base salary is reviewed annually by the Committee with any increase salary and other taking effect on 1 July of each year.
Other Executive Directors base salaries are subject to an benefits enables the annual review with any increases taking effect on 1 January of each year.
Company to attract Pay awards for Senior Executives take account of prevailing market and economic conditions, and retain skilled, governance trends and the approach to employee pay throughout the organisation.
For example, high calibre in the year ended 30 September 2012, the UK-based Executive Directors received percentage Executives to deliver increases in line with the average UK-wide pay review, outside of those set by collective bargaining its strategy.
The annual base salaries of the Executive Directors for the year ended 30 September 2012 were: Director Base Salary Effective Date Increase Dominic Blakemore 480,000 27 February 2012 N A Richard Cousins 965,500 1 July 2012 2.99% Gary Green US$1,170,080 1 January 2012 3.00% Andrew Martin 650,000 2 April 2012 Andrew Martin received a 2.00% increase effective 1 January 2012.
On 2 April 2012 he was appointed as Group Chief Operating Officer Europe & Japan, for which he received an additional increase equal to 12.28% to reflect the change in his role and responsibilities.
56 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Directors Remuneration Report Element Reason Mechanics Benefits Benefits are offered These comprise healthcare insurance for Executive Directors and their dependents, limited to Executive financial advice, life assurance and car benefit.
Directors as part of a competitive remuneration package.
Annual The annual bonus The target award for the year ended 30 September 2012 was 75% of base salary, with a further Bonus rewards superior maximum of 75% of base salary available for enhanced performance.
It For the year ended 30 September 2012, the Committee agreed that bonus measures be is earned by the comprised of: Personal Targets 15% : Profit Before Interest and Tax PBIT 55% : Organic achievement of oneRevenue Growth ORG 15% : and 15% based on either Group Free Cash Flow GFCF or year performance 12 Month Average Working Capital Balance AWCB depending upon whether a Director has targets set by the Group-wide or regional responsibilities respectively.
Committee at the The PBIT and ORG targets are subject to adjustments for acquisitions and disposals, and bonus start of each financial measures dependent on GFCF are subject to the caveat that GFCF should not be affected by year and is delivered Board approved capital expenditure or other unusual or irregular timing differences.
A supplementary financial underpin also applies such that the amount payable pursuant to the The annual bonus achievement of the non-PBIT measures may not exceed the on-target payment unless the has been the primary threshold Group PBIT measure has been achieved.
form of short-term The PBIT and ORG targets are two of our key performance indicators and have a direct impact on cash based incentive Shareholder value.
The use of GFCF and AWCB more closely align remuneration metrics with the for the year ended Groups trading results and GFCF is a key measure of performance in reported results.
In setting the 30 September 2012, actual level of targets each year, the Committee has regard to investors expectations, budgets and and this will continue longer term business plans.
to be the policy for the year ending 30 The Committee is satisfied that the performance targets continue to be sufficiently stretching and September 2013. promote the Companys business strategy and Shareholder value.
In the case of intended fraud or misconduct by a participant which contributes to an error in financial information, the Company will be entitled to claw back the value of any amount paid under the annual bonus.
The bonus measures for each Executive Director are set out in the table below.
Targets for the year ended 30 September 2012 and achieved performance are shown on page 61.
It has been agreed that, for the year ending 30 September 2013, Personal Targets will no longer be set and will be replaced by a Health, Safety and Environment improvement target which will represent 5% of an Executive Directors annual bonus plan opportunity, with the remaining 95% being set by reference to financial performance.
The annual bonus elements for Executive Directors for the year ended 30 September 2012 were: Dominic Richard Gary Andrew Measure Blakemore Cousins Green Martin 1 1 2 1 Profit Before Interest and Tax PBIT 55% 55% 55% 55% Group Free Cash Flow GFCF 15% 15% 15% 3 12 Month Average Working Capital Balance AWCB 15% 4 4 5 4 Organic Revenue Growth ORG 15% 15% 15% 15% Personal Targets 15% 15% 15% 15% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% For the year ended 30 September 2012, Andrew Martin was subject to Group-wide targets.
2 PBIT split between Group PBIT 15% and PBIT for region of responsibility 40%.
3 12 Month AWCB for region of responsibility.
5 ORG for region of responsibility.
Governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 57 I Element Reason Mechanics Long Term The LTIP aligns the Under the LTIP, Executive Directors and Senior Executives may receive a conditional award of Incentive interests of Executive shares which may vest after a single three-year performance period, based on the achievement Plan Directors and of stretching performance conditions.
Shareholders through Awards of up to 200% of base salary are made by reference to the share price at the date of building a long-term award.
Awards may be settled in shares or cash, if required for example, because of securities shareholding in the laws, subject to the discretion of the Committee, determined at any time up to their release.
For awards made in the year ended 30 September 2012, 50% of any award was based on GFCF The LTIP has been over the three-year performance period and 50% on the Companys TSR over the same period the primary form relative to the companies comprising the TSR comparator group at the start of the period.
The of equity-based precise GFCF target for each award is linked to the Groups wider business targets and is set by the incentive for the year Committee at the time of award based on Group projections and market expectations.
The GFCF ended 30 September measure is set by the Committee subject to the caveat that GFCF should not be affected by Board 2012, and this approved capital expenditure or other unusual or irregular timing differences.
will continue to No shares may vest unless the Group achieves threshold performance.
25% of the portion of the be the policy for award based on GFCF vests on the achievement of threshold performance.
Awards vest on a straightthe year ending line basis between 25% and 100% where GFCF is between threshold and maximum performance.
30 September TSR is the aggregate of share price growth and dividends paid assuming reinvestment of those 2013 albeit that the dividends in the Companys shares during the three-year performance period and an averaging specific performance period of three months is used.
The portion of the award based on TSR will vest in full for top quartile targets are expected performance achievement and 25% of the award will vest if performance is at the median.
Awards to be changed, will vest on a straight-line basis between median and top quartile performance achievement.
No subject to shares will be released if the Companys TSR performance is below the median.
Shareholder approval at the AGM.
The Committee must also be satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Group justifies the vesting of an award.
Calculations of the achievement of the targets are independently performed and are approved by the Committee.
If a participant retires, any unvested LTIP award will continue until the normal vesting date and will be satisfied, subject to achievement of the performance conditions.
If a participant ceases to be an employee for any other reason other than death, unvested awards will normally lapse unless the Committee determines in its absolute discretion, in which case it can permit awards to continue and be satisfied, subject to the achievement of the performance conditions.
In both these circumstances, any shares vesting will be prorated based on the period of service unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
In the event of a change of control, any unvested awards will vest immediately, subject to satisfaction of performance conditions and reduction on a time-apportioned basis.
Similar treatment applies in the event of death of a participant.
The Committees policy with regard to the exercise of discretion is set out on page 59.
In the case of intended fraud or misconduct by a participant which contributes to an error in financial information that materially affects the Companys share value, the Company will be entitled to claw back the value of any shares released or the payment of cash equivalents under the LTIP.
Benefits under the LTIP are not pensionable.
The Committee is recommending to Shareholders at the forthcoming AGM that, going forward, Return on Capital Employed ROCE be included as an additional performance target under the LTIP and that the three measures of GFCF, ROCE and TSR should each carry an equal weighting of one third.
If approved by Shareholders, these targets will apply to awards made in the year ending 30 September 2013 and thereafter.
In order to ensure continued alignment between Executive Directors and Shareholders interests, in determining final vesting under the LTIP, the Committee will continue to review the underlying financial performance of the Company at the end of each performance period and retain its discretion to adjust vesting if it considers that performance is unsatisfactory.
Pension Rewards sustained Incoming Executive Directors are invited to participate in the Companys money purchase pension or Cash contribution and arrangement or to take a fixed salary supplement calculated as a percentage of base salary, which Allowance encourages is excluded from any bonus calculation, in lieu of pension entitlement.
The Groups policy is not to offer defined benefit arrangements to new employees at any level save where required by applicable legislation.
At 30 September 2012 there were no Executive Directors actively participating in any Compass Group defined benefit pension arrangements and none of the Executive Directors are accruing additional entitlement to benefit under any arrangements that existed prior to their appointment as Executive Directors.
Dominic Blakemore, Richard Cousins and Gary Green each receive a salary supplement equal to 35% of their basic salaries in lieu of pension.
As reported in 2006, Andrew Martin has, since 6 April 2006, received a salary supplement equal to 35% of basic salary and has waived all rights to his final salary pension, money purchase pension and unfunded unapproved pension relating to his employment prior to that date.
