Consolidated financial statements Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 119 I 30 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt continued 2012 2011 Other non-cash movements in net debt m m Amortisation of fees and discount on issuance 2 Accrual for issuance fees 2 Amortisation of the fair value adjustment in respect of the 250 million Sterling Eurobond redeemable in 2014 4 4 Swap monetisation credit 2 2 Changes in the fair value of bank and other borrowings in a designated fair value hedge 17 1 Bank and other borrowings 13 9 Changes in the value of derivative financial instruments including accrued interest 15 9 Other non-cash movements 2 31 Contingent liabilities 2012 2011 1 Performance bonds, guarantees and indemnities m m 1 Performance bonds, guarantees and indemnities including those of associated undertakings 383 371 1 Excludes bonds, guarantees and indemnities in respect of self-insurance liabilities, post-employment obligations and borrowings including finance and operating leases recorded on the balance sheet or disclosed in note 33.
Performance bonds, guarantees and indemnities The Company and certain subsidiary undertakings have, in the normal course of business, given guarantees and entered into counterindemnities in respect of such guarantees relating to the Groups own contracts and or the Groups share of certain contractual obligations of joint ventures and associates.
Where the Group enters into such arrangements, it does so in order to provide assurance to the beneficiary that it will fulfil its existing contractual obligations.
The issue of such guarantees and indemnities does not therefore increase the Groups overall exposure and the disclosure of such performance bonds, guarantees and indemnities is given for information purposes only.
Eurest Support Services On 21 October 2005, the Company announced that it had instructed Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer to conduct an investigation into the relationships between Eurest Support Services ESS a member of the Group, IHC Services Inc. IHC and the United Nations UN.
Ernst & Young assisted Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer in this investigation.
On 1 February 2006, it was announced that the investigation had concluded.
The investigation established serious irregularities in connection with contracts awarded to ESS by the UN.
The work undertaken by Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer and Ernst & Young gave no reason to believe that these issues extended beyond a few individuals within ESS to other parts of ESS or the wider Compass Group of companies.
The Group settled all outstanding civil litigation against it in relation to this matter in October 2006, but litigation continues between competitors of ESS, IHC and other parties involved in UN procurement.
IHCs relationship with the UN and ESS was part of a wider investigation into UN procurement activity being conducted by the United States Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York, and with which the Group co-operated fully.
The current status of that investigation is uncertain and a matter for the US authorities.
Those investigators could have had access to sources unavailable to the Group, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer or Ernst & Young, and further information may yet emerge which is inconsistent with, or additional to, the findings of the Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer investigation, which could have an adverse impact on the Group.
The Group has, however, not been contacted by, or received further requests for information from, the United States Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York in connection with these matters since January 2006.
The Group has co-operated fully with the UN throughout.
Other litigation and claims The Group is also involved in various other legal proceedings incidental to the nature of its business and maintains insurance cover to reduce financial risk associated with claims related to these proceedings.
Where appropriate, provisions are made to cover any potential uninsured losses.
In addition, the Group is subject to periodic tax audits covering corporate, employee and sales taxes in the various jurisdictions in which it operates.
None of these are currently expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial position.
Outcome Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of these proceedings, or any claim against the Group related thereto, in the opinion of the Directors, any uninsured losses resulting from the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material effect on the financial position of the Group.
