Consolidated financial statements Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 75 I Goodwill E Acquisitions The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase impairment in accordance with the accounting policy set out in method.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the section M below.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred have been determined based on value in use calculations.
These or assumed, and equity instruments issued.
calculations require the use of estimates and assumptions consistent with the most up-to-date budgets and plans that have been formally Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities approved by management.
The key assumptions used for the value assumed are recognised at the fair values at the acquisition date, in use calculations are set out in note 11 to the financial statements.
except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale which are recognised and measured at fair value less Post-employment benefits costs to sell.
Defined benefit schemes are reappraised annually by independent actuaries based on actuarial assumptions.
Significant judgment The cost of the acquisition in excess of the Groups interest in the is required in determining these actuarial assumptions.
The principal net fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as assumptions used are described in note 24 to the financial statements.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised C Basis of consolidation directly in the income statement.
The consolidated financial statements consist of the financial statements of the Company, entities controlled by the Company F Foreign currency its subsidiaries and the Groups share of interests in joint ventures The consolidated financial statements are prepared in pounds and associates made up to 30 September each year.
Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company.
D Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures In preparing the financial statements of individual companies within the Group, transactions in currencies other than pounds Sterling are Subsidiaries recorded at the rates of exchange on the dates of the transaction.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are govern the financial and operating policies.
The existence and effect denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates on of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are considered when assessing control.
are included in the income statement for the period, except for where they arise on items taken directly to other comprehensive income, Joint ventures in which case they are also recognised in the consolidated statement Joint ventures are entities in which the Group holds an interest on of comprehensive income.
a long-term basis and which are jointly controlled by the Group and other venturers under a contractual agreement.
The Groups share In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks is accounted for using the proportionate consolidation method.
the Group enters into forward currency contracts see section Q The consolidated income statement and balance sheet include the below for the Groups accounting policies in respect of derivative Groups share of the income, expenses, assets and liabilities.
Associates On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas Associates are undertakings that are not subsidiaries or joint ventures operations expressed in their functional currencies, being the over which the Group has significant influence and can participate currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity in financial and operating policy decisions.
Investments in associated operates are translated at the exchange rates on the balance sheet undertakings are accounted for using the equity method.
Income and expense items are translated at the average consolidated income statement includes the Groups share of the exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, profit after tax of the associated undertakings.
Investments in associates are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation include goodwill identified on acquisition and are carried in the Group balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in value.
or expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Adjustments Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the accounting entity and translated at the closing rate.
policies used in line with those used by the Group.
G Revenue Acquisitions and disposals Revenue is recognised in the period in which services are provided The results of subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures acquired or in accordance with the terms of the contractual relationships with disposed of during the period are included in the consolidated income third parties.
Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective received or receivable for goods and services provided in the normal date of disposal, as appropriate.
course of business, excluding trade discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes.
Intra-group transactions All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are Management fee contracts eliminated on consolidation.
Where a Group subsidiary transacts Revenue from management fee contracts comprises the total of sales with a joint venture of the Group, profits or losses are eliminated made to consumers, the subsidy charged to clients, together with the to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant joint venture.
management fee charged to clients.
