126 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Parent Company accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2012 Introduction G Derivatives and other financial instruments The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its separate financial statements of the Company are set out below: exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative instruments utilised include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts.
The Company A Accounting convention and basis and Group policy is disclosed in the accounting policies to the of preparation consolidated financial statements.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP H Dividends and the Companies Act 2006 using the historical cost convention Dividends are recognised in the Companys financial statements modified for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
in the year in which they are approved in general meeting by the Companys Shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern when paid.
This is discussed in the Finance Directors Report on page 42.
I Deferred tax B Exemptions Deferred tax is provided at the anticipated rates on timing The Companys financial statements are included in the Compass differences arising from the inclusion of items of income and Group PLC consolidated financial statements for the year ended expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those 30 September 2012.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more account.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption likely than not that they will be recovered.
from presenting a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements.
The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures from disclosing J Share-based payments transactions with other members of Compass Group.
The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based The Compass Group PLC consolidated financial statements for payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non the year ended 30 September 2012 contain financial instrument market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair disclosures which comply with FRS 29 Financial Instruments: value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based Disclosures.
Consequently, the Company has taken advantage payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting of the exemption in FRS 29 not to present separate financial period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will instrument disclosures for the Company.
eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
C Change in accounting policies Fair value is measured using either the binomial distribution or The Company has not applied any accounting standards for the Black-Scholes pricing models as is most appropriate for each first time in the year ended 30 September 2012. scheme.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise D Investments in subsidiary undertakings restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Investments are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
In the opinion of the Directors the value of such investments are For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the not less than shown at the balance sheet date.
portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
E Foreign currency The issue of share incentives by the Company to employees of its Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling subsidiaries represents additional capital contributions.
An addition at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Gains and losses to the Companys investment in Group undertakings is reported with arising on retranslation are included in the profit and loss account a corresponding increase in Shareholders funds.
For details of the for the period.
charge see note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
F Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost unless they are part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship.
Borrowings that are part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship are measured at amortised cost plus or minus the fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
