74 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2012 IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities not yet adopted by Introduction the European Union requires enhanced disclosures of the nature, The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the risks and financial effects associated with the Groups interests in Groups financial statements are set out below: subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
A Accounting convention and basis of preparation IFRS 13 Fair value measurement not yet adopted by the European The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Union explains how to measure fair value and aims to enhance fair International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International value disclosures.
The standard does not change the measurement Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations of fair value but codifies it in one place.
as adopted by the European Union that are effective for the year ended 30 September 2012.
They have been prepared under the Amendments to IAS 19 Employee benefits changes a number of historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain disclosure requirements for post-employment arrangements and financial instruments.
restricts the options currently available on how to account for defined benefit pension plans.
The most significant change that will impact The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern the Group is that the amendment requires expected returns on basis.
This is discussed in the Finance Directors Report on page 42. pension plan assets, currently calculated based on managements expectation of expected returns, to be replaced by a credit on the pension plan assets calculated at the liability discount rate.
The There have been only minor improvements to existing International Group does not expect that this change will have a material impact Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations that are effective on either finance costs or the Groups net assets.
These amendments for the first time in the current financial year which have been adopted will be effective for the Group in the year ending 30 September 2014. by the Group with no impact on its consolidated results or financial position.
In the current financial year, the Group has adopted Improvements to IFRS issued May 2010, Amendments to IAS 24 Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements State-controlled entities and the definition of a related party, presentation of items of Other Comprehensive Income.
These Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments on a minimum funding amendments will be effective for the Group in the year ending requirement and IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with 30 September 2013. equity instruments.
Amendments to IAS 12 Income taxes: Deferred tax recovery Accounting standards, amendments and interpretations of underlying assets to existing standards that are not yet effective Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations of existing IAS 27 revised Separate financial statements standards have been published that, once they have been endorsed by the European Union, will be mandatory for the Groups accounting IAS 28 revised Associates and joint ventures period beginning on 1 October 2012 or for later periods.
The Group has not yet adopted these pronouncements and does not currently Amendments to IAS 32 Financial instruments believe that the adoption of these standards, amendments or interpretations would have a material effect on the consolidated Amendment to IAS 34 Interim financial reporting results or financial position of the Group unless stated otherwise.
Amendments to IFRS 7 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities IFRS 9 Financial instruments not yet endorsed by the European Union removes the multiple classification and measurement models Improvements to IFRS 2009-2011 Cycle for financial assets required by IAS 39 and introduces a model that has only two classification categories: amortised cost and fair value.
B Critical accounting policies and use of Classification is driven by the business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of those assumptions and estimates assets.
The accounting and presentation for financial liabilities and The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires for derecognising financial instruments is relocated from IAS 39 management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that without any significant changes.
The Group is currently assessing affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and the impact this standard would have on its consolidated results and liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and assumptions financial position.
are based on historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements not yet endorsed by the may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and assumptions European Union replaces the guidance of control and consolidation that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the in IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements and carrying value of assets and liabilities in the next financial year are SIC 12 Consolidation special purpose entities.
The core principle discussed below.
that a consolidated entity presents a parent and its subsidiaries as if they were a single entity remains unchanged, as do the mechanics Income taxes of consolidation.
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgment is required in determining the worldwide IFRS 11 Joint arrangements not yet endorsed by the European provision for income taxes as there are many transactions and Union requires joint arrangements to be accounted for as a joint calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain operation or as a joint venture depending upon the rights and during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises obligations of each party to the arrangement.
Proportionate liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
consolidation for joint ventures will be eliminated and equity Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the accounting will be compulsory.
It is anticipated that the application amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact of the standard which is expected to be effective for the Group the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred in the year ending 30 September 2015 will result in a decrease tax provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
to Group revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities but will have no impact on the Groups net profit or net assets.
Details of the Groups joint venture arrangements are set out in note 16.
