Consolidated financial statements Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 77 I The following rates applied for the Group: Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised Contract-related intangible assets: the life of the contract cost: any difference between the proceeds net of direct issue costs Computer software: 6% to 33% per annum and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method, The typical life of contract-related intangibles is 2 to 20 years.
unless included in a fair value hedge.
Contract-related intangible assets arising on acquisition of a business Equity instruments are recognised at fair value and amortised over the life of the contract.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the Underlying operating profit and underlying earnings per share exclude proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
the amortisation of contract-related intangible assets arising on acquisition of a business as it is not considered to be relevant to the underlying trading performance of the Group.
Liabilities in respect of option agreements Option agreements that allow minority Shareholders to require the Group to purchase the minority interest are treated as derivatives N Property, plant and equipment over equity instruments.
These are recorded in the balance sheet All tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when there are at fair value which is re-evaluated at each period end.
Fair value indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Freehold is based on the present value of expected cash outflows.
The land is not depreciated.
All other property, plant and equipment assets movement in fair value is recognised as income or expense within are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the anticipated The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward useful lives of the assets.
currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge the risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The following rates applied for the Group: Such derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract date and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent Freehold buildings and long-term leasehold property: 2% per annum reporting dates.
Short-term leasehold property: the life of the lease Plant and machinery: 8% to 33% per annum The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies Fixtures and fittings: 8% to 33% per annum approved by the Board of Directors that provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk When assets are sold, the difference between sales proceeds and the management strategy.
The Group does not use derivative financial carrying amount of the assets is dealt with in the income statement.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference O Assets held for sale to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by reference if the carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction to market values for similar instruments.
rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable, management is committed to For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either a sale plan, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the condition and the sale is expected to be completed within one year fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where from the date of classification.
These assets are measured at the they hedge the exposure to variability in cash flows that is either lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecasted transaction.
P Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In relation to fair value hedges interest rate swaps which meet the Cost is calculated using either the weighted average price or the first conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring in, first out method as appropriate to the circumstances.
Net realisable the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable less applicable variable selling expenses.
to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
Where the adjustment is to the carrying amount of a hedged interest-bearing Q Financial instruments financial instrument, the adjustment is amortised to the net profit Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups and loss such that it is fully amortised by maturity.
balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and liabilities, including When fair value hedge accounting is discontinued, any adjustment derivative financial instruments, denominated in foreign currencies are to the carrying amount of the hedged item for the designated risk translated into Sterling at period end exchange rates.
Gains and for interest-bearing financial instruments is amortised to profit or loss, losses are dealt with through the income statement, unless hedge with amortisation commencing no later than when the hedged item accounting treatment is available.
Cash and cash equivalents The Groups policy is to convert a proportion of its floating rate debt Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and to fixed rates, using floating to fixed interest rate swaps.
The Group short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
designates these as cash flow hedges of interest rate risk.
