Governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 53 I Directors Remuneration Report The Companys share price has performed well over the last six Introduction years, delivering on average 20% growth per annum in the period On behalf of your Board, I am pleased to present our Remuneration from 2007-2012.
During the same period, our focus has been on Report for the year ended 30 September 2012.
Shareholders will creating a sustainable business base for the future and driving be invited to approve the Report at the Companys Annual General growth at the same time as improving margins, whilst exiting nonMeeting the AGM on 7 February 2013. core markets and businesses and delivering improving rewards for our Shareholders.
The strategic review identified that the Company Focus on transparency is now entering a different phase in its development with the transition from turnaround to sustained and consistent performance The Company has always sought to be transparent in remuneration delivery with sensible margin progression.
Mindful of the Governments proposed regulations in arrangements therefore need to be adjusted to reflect this change.
respect of Executive remuneration reporting, this years Report has been refined to include additional disclosures to make the Report easier to understand and to eliminate duplication of information that Going forward, we believe that the alignment of reward with these may be found in other sections of the Annual Report and Accounts.
key elements of business performance will be achieved over the long term through the introduction of Return on Capital Employed ROCE as an additional performance measure under the LTIP.
The The Report is split into two sections and covers the following matters: generation of cash remains fundamental to the ongoing success of the Group and therefore it is proposed that Group Free Cash Flow the Companys Executive remuneration strategy and policy for GFCF be maintained as a performance measure, along with Total the year ended 30 September 2012 and the intended policy for Shareholder Return TSR.
the year ending 30 September 2013, including each of the components of Directors remuneration The Committee considers that the introduction of ROCE, weighted how the policy has been implemented in the year ended as to performance at one third of each Award, together with reduced 30 September 2012 weightings for both GFCF and TSR from one half to one third, will ensure strong alignment between reward and the long-term interests Perspective of Shareholders.
The Committee believes that ROCE will deliver a In retrospect and looking ahead, the Companys remuneration policy more rigorous focus by Executives on the quality of the return on has been and will continue to be uncomplicated, performance related investment in either existing businesses or new business and retention focused.
opportunities which is a key element in ensuring the development of strong businesses over the long term.
Remuneration packages reflect the responsibility and contribution of the individual and ensure that the Company is able to attract, retain It is recommended that TSR be continued as an LTIP performance and motivate the best people in a competitive marketplace.
In return, measure going forward, albeit that its weighting will be reduced Executive Directors are expected to demonstrate responsibility, to one third of each Award.
TSR, used in combination with ROCE commitment and leadership.
The Companys policy is structured and GFCF, will provide an overall assessment of sustained so that Executive Directors are fairly rewarded and well paid, but not performance, whilst keeping alignment with Shareholders interests.
The aim is to keep reward at or around median in line with appropriate benchmarks for the markets in which Compass operates.
In order to ensure the continued alignment between Executive Directors and Shareholders interests, in determining final Our objective is to ensure that there is stability in our remuneration policy.
vesting under the LTIP, the Committee will continue to review the This has remained fundamentally unchanged since last year and it is underlying financial performance of the Company at the end of not envisaged that the remuneration elements for Executive Directors each performance period and retain its discretion to adjust vesting for the year ending 30 September 2013 will be substantially different if it considers that financial performance is unsatisfactory.
to those in place for the financial year ended 30September2012.
Approval will be sought from Shareholders at the AGM for the change in performance measures for the LTIP.
Subject to Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Shareholder approval, we will move from a 50% TSR 50% The operation of each of the individual remuneration components is GFCF weighting to GFCF, ROCE and TSR targets, each carrying reviewed regularly to ensure they are aligned to the strategic direction an equal weighting of one third of an Award.
of the business and reward the delivery and achievement of that objective.
Following a strategy review and subsequent extensive consultation with Shareholder bodies and a number of our large Engagement institutional investors, the Committee determined that a change to The voting outcome at the 3 February 2012 AGM in respect of the the performance measures under the LTIP was required to respond Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September to the Companys renewed focus on growth and the delivery of strong 2011 is set out on page 65 and reflected very strong individual and Shareholder returns.
This is the first proposed change in performance institutional Shareholder support of the Companys remuneration measures since 2006. policy and its implementation.
There are two areas of business performance which are considered The Committee will continue to be mindful of the concerns of to be key to the delivery of our strategy and against which the Shareholders and other stakeholders, and welcomes Shareholder Committee wants to ensure that Executive Directors are incentivised feedback on any issue related to Executive remuneration.
and rewarded: In conclusion, we believe that our remuneration policy continues to the generation of cash be aligned with our strategic goal of delivering Shareholder value.
the reinvestment of cash in the business Sir James Crosby Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
