52 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Corporate governance Employees are offered a range of benefits, such as private medical Employee policies and involvement cover, depending on the local environment.
Priority is given to the The Group places particular importance on the involvement of its training of employees and the development of their skills is of prime employees, keeping them regularly informed through informal bulletins importance.
Employment of disabled people is considered on merit and other in-house publications, meetings and the Companys internal with regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the role.
websites, on matters affecting them as employees and on the issues Arrangements to enable disabled people to carry out the duties affecting their performance.
Throughout the year under review, those required will be made if it is reasonable to do so.
An employee Group businesses in the European Economic Area were able to have becoming disabled would, where appropriate, be offered retraining.
representation on the Compass European Council, which has been The Group continues to operate on a decentralised basis.
This in operation since 1996, and provides a forum for exchanging provides the maximum encouragement for the development of information and engaging in consultation on the Groups performance entrepreneurial flair, balanced by a rigorous control framework and plans, and relevant transnational issues.
exercised by a small head office team.
Local management teams are responsible for maintaining high standards of health and safety Permanent UK employees are usually invited to join the Companys and for ensuring that there is appropriate employee involvement in defined contribution scheme, Compass Retirement Income Savings decision making.
Plan CRISP, or the Companys stakeholder pension arrangement.
The Chairman, Tony Allen, is Creditor payment policy independent.
The other five Trustee Directors are UK-based employees of the Group, two of whom have been nominated by All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms and CRISP members.
As at the date of this Report, a position for a conditions with their suppliers and it is Group policy that payments further one member-nominated position isvacant.
are made within such agreed terms and conditions.
The amount of trade creditors for the Group as at 30 September 2012 was equivalent However, those UK employees who transfer from the public sector to 67 days 2011: 69 days of trade purchases.
under the Transfer of Undertakings Protection of Employment Regulations 2006 are eligible to join the Compass Group Pension Plan Shareholder services the Plan, a defined benefit pension arrangement which is otherwise Details of services provided to Shareholders can be found in the closed to new entrants.
The Plan also has a corporate Trustee.
The General Shareholder Information section on pages 131 and 132 Chairman, Peter Morriss, and one other Trustee are independent.
of the Annual Report or on the Companys website.
There are a further five Trustee Directors who are either UK-based employees or former employees of the Group, three of whom have been nominated by Plan members.
CREST The Companys ordinary shares and Sterling Eurobonds are The Company became subject to the Pensions Automatic Enrolment in CREST, the settlement system for stocks and shares.
Regulations for its workforce in the UK on 1 November 2012, but in accordance with the Regulations, has deferred its staging date for AGM automatic enrolment of eligible employees to start from 2 January 2013 so as to ensure that adequate systems are in place and The Notice of Meeting setting out the Resolutions to be proposed at the employees are not impacted over the Christmas period.
Both the AGM to be held on 7 February 2013, together with explanatory notes, Compass Group Pension Plan and CRISP are compliant arrangements is set out on pages 133 to 139 of this Annual Report and is also under these Regulations and will be registered as such.
available on the Companys website at www.
The Directors consider that each of the Resolutions is in the best interests of the Company and the Shareholders as a whole and Employees who are not already in one of these registered recommend that Shareholders vote in favour of all of the Resolutions.
compliant arrangements will be automatically enrolled into the National Employment Savings Trust NEST.
The decision to appoint NEST as the Companys partner for automatic enrolment was made On behalf of the Board following a comprehensive selection process and the Company considers that NEST will provide the right type of service, communication material and investment choice for UK employees and that it has the capabilities to support a company as large and diverse as Compass Group.
Mark J White General Counsel and Company Secretary Permanent employees outside of the UK are usually offered 21 November 2012 membership of local pension arrangements if and where they exist or limited global arrangements where it is appropriate Compass Group PLC to have Company sponsored arrangements.
Registered in England and Wales No.
4083914 To view our Annual Report and our Code of Business Conduct go to www.
