Shareholder information Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 135 I Resolution 17 Proposed Changes to Long Term Incentive Explanatory notes to the Resolutions Plan Performance Conditions Resolution 1 Annual Report and Accounts The Compass Group PLC Long Term Incentive Plan 2010 LTIP The Directors are required to present to the Annual General Meeting was approved by Shareholders on 5 February 2010.
The Company AGM the Meeting the audited accounts and the Directors and confirmed that it would seek Shareholder approval for material Auditors Reports for the financial year ended 30 September 2012. changes to the performance conditions governing the vesting of awards.
Resolution 17 proposes, subject to Shareholder Resolution 2 Directors Remuneration Report approval, to amend the LTIP plan rules in respect of changes In accordance with section 439 of the Companies Act 2006 to the performance conditions applying to any future awards, the CA 2006, Shareholders are requested to approve the Directors following approval by Shareholders.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 53 to 65 of the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts.
Under the current LTIP performance conditions 50% of each award will vest based on Group Free Cash Flow GFCF and 50% on Total Resolution 3 Final Dividend Shareholder Return TSR.
It is proposed that for future awards: The final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2012 will be paid on 25 February 2013 to Shareholders on the register at the close of Return on Capital Employed ROCE is introduced as an business on 25 January 2013, subject to Shareholder approval.
additional performance measure: GFCF and TSR remain as performance measures: and Resolutions 4 to 13 Election and Re-election of Directors each of the three measures carries an equal weighting of Biographical details of all the Directors standing for election and one third.
re-election appear on pages 26 and 27 of the 2012 Annual Report.
The Committee considers that the inclusion of ROCE as a In line with the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, performance target would further align the targets to Executive Dominic Blakemore, who was appointed by the Board since the date Directors performance and Shareholders interests.
of the last AGM, will submit himself for election by Shareholders.
It is also proposed that the Remuneration Committee will retain The Companys Articles of Association require one third of the its discretion to reduce the vesting of awards if it does not believe Directors to retire by rotation each year and no Director may serve that the underlying financial performance of the Group justifies for more than three years without being re-elected by Shareholders.
However, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, all the Directors will submit themselves for annual No changes to individual award limits are proposed.
These are re-election by Shareholders.
The Chairman is satisfied that the currently set at a maximum of 200% of basic salary per annum performance of each of the Directors continues to be effective for Executive Directors.
and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Further details are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report Resolutions 14 and 15 Auditor on pages 53 to 65.
The Auditor is appointed at every general meeting at which accounts are presented to Shareholders.
The current appointment of Deloitte Resolution 18 Directors Authority to Allot Shares LLP as the Companys Auditor will end at the conclusion of the AGM The purpose of Resolution 18 is to renew the Directors power to and it has advised of its willingness to stand for re-appointment.
Resolution 18.1 seeks to grant the Directors authority to normal practice for a companys directors to be authorised to agree allot, pursuant to Article 12 of the Companys Articles of Association how much the Auditor should be paid and Resolution 15 grants this and section 551 of the CA 2006, relevant securities with a maximum authority to the Directors.
This represents 614,351,700 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company, Resolution 16 Donations to Political Parties which is approximately one third of the Companys issued ordinary It is not Group policy to make donations to political parties.
However, share capital as at 1 December 2012 being the last practicable date it is possible that certain routine activities undertaken by the Company prior to the publication of this Notice.
The Company does not and its subsidiaries might unintentionally fall within the wide definition currently hold any shares as treasury shares.
The authority would, of matters constituting political donations and expenditure in the unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by Shareholders, CA 2006.
Any expenditure that is regulated under the CA 2006 must remain in force up to the conclusion of the AGM of the Company first be approved by Shareholders and will be disclosed in next years to be held in 2014, or 6 May 2014, whichever is earlier.
This Resolution, if passed, will renew the Directors authority until the AGM to be held in 2014 when the Directors intend In accordance with the Association of British Insurers Allotment to renew this authority to make donations and incur expenditure Guidelines the Guidelines, Resolution 18.2 seeks to grant the which might otherwise be caught by the terms of the CA 2006, Directors authority to allot approximately a further one third of the up to an aggregate amount of 125,000 for the Company and for Companys issued ordinary share capital in connection with a rights subsidiary companies.
issue in favour of ordinary Shareholders with a nominal value of up to 61,435,170 representing 614,351,700 ordinary shares of 1 0 pence each.
Such additional authority will be valid for a period of one year or until the conclusion of the next AGM, whichever is the sooner.
136 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Notice of meeting If the Company uses any of the additional one third authority permitted The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares by the Guidelines, the Company will ensure that all Directors stand for Regulations 2003 came into force on 1 December 2003.
The Companys current practice is that all Directors submit regulations allow shares repurchased by the Company to be held as themselves for re-election each year in accordance with the Code, treasury shares.
Treasury shares may be cancelled, sold for cash or notwithstanding the provisions set out in the Guidelines.
used for the purpose of employee share schemes.
The authority to be sought by this Resolution is intended to apply equally to shares to be held by the Company as treasury shares.
No dividends will be The total authorisation sought by Resolution 18 is equal to paid on shares which are held as treasury shares and no voting approximately two thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of the rights will be attached to them.
Shares held as treasury shares will Company as at 1 December 2012, being the last practicable date be treated as if cancelled.
prior to publication of this Notice.
The Company expects its existing 500 million share repurchase Resolutions 1 to 18 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and programme to be executed by the end of December 2012.
On require that more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of 21 November 2012, the Company announced its intention to a resolution for it to be passed.
commence a further 400 million share repurchase programme, to be executed over the 12 month period to the end of December 2013.
Resolution 19 Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Beyond these programmes, the Directors have no present intention If the Company issues new shares, or sells treasury shares, for cash of exercising the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary other than in connection with an employee share scheme, it must shares but they consider it desirable to provide maximum flexibility in first offer them to existing Shareholders in proportion to their existing the management of the Companys capital resources.
In accordance with investor guidelines, approval is sought would only purchase shares if, in their opinion, the expected effect by the Directors to issue a limited number of ordinary shares for cash would be to result in an increase in earnings per share and would without offering them to existing Shareholders.
Resolution 19 seeks to renew the Directors authority to issue equity As at 1 December 2012 being the last practicable date prior to securities of the Company for cash without application of pre-emption the publication of this Notice, there were options outstanding over rights pursuant to Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association approximately 21,185,400 ordinary shares in the capital of the and section 561 of the CA 2006.
Other than in connection with a Company which represent 1.15% of the Companys issued ordinary rights, scrip dividend, or other similar issue, the authority contained share capital excluding treasury shares at that date.
If the authority in this Resolution would be limited to a maximum nominal amount of to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, 9,215,270.
This represents 92,152,700 ordinary shares of 10 pence these options would represent 1.28% of the Companys issued each in the capital of the Company, which is approximately 5% of the ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares.
Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 1 December 2012 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice.
Resolution 21 Notice of Meetings other than Annual The authority would, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by General Meetings Shareholders, expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company The Companys Articles of Association allow the Directors to call to be held in 2014 or on 6 May 2014, if earlier.
general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 clear days notice.
However, the Companies Shareholders Rights Save for issues of shares in respect of various employee share Regulations 2009 the Regulations require that all general meetings schemes and any share dividend alternatives, the Directors have no be held on 21 days notice, unless Shareholders agree to a shorter current plans to utilise either of the authorities sought by Resolutions notice period, and the Company has met the requirements for 18 and 19 although they consider their renewal appropriate in order to electronic voting under the Regulations.
This Resolution seeks to retain maximum flexibility to take advantage of business opportunities renew the authority granted by Shareholders at last years AGM as they arise.
In addition, and in line with best practice, the Company which preserved the Companys ability to call general meetings, has not issued more than 7.5% of its issued share capital on a nonother than AGMs, on 14 clear days notice, such authority to be pro rata basis over the last three years and the Board confirms its effective until the Companys next AGM, when a similar resolution intention to follow best practice set out in the Pre-emption Groups will be proposed.
The Directors confirm that the shorter notice Statement of Principles which provides that usage of this authority period would not be used as a matter of routine, but only where in excess of 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in a rolling flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and it is thought three-year period would not take place without prior consultation to be to the advantage of Shareholders as a whole.
voting facility will be made available to all Shareholders for any meeting held on such notice.
Resolution 20 Purchase of own Shares This Resolution authorises the Directors to make limited on-market Resolutions 19 to 21 will be proposed as special resolutions and purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
The power is limited require that at least three quarters of the votes cast must be in to a maximum of 184,305,500 shares just under 10% of the issued favour of a resolution for it to be passed.
ordinary share capital as at 1 December 2012, being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice and details Recommendation the minimum and maximum prices that can be paid, exclusive of The Directors consider that each of the Resolutions is in the expenses.
The authority conferred by this Resolution will expire at best interests of the Company and the Shareholders as a whole the conclusion of the Companys next AGM or 18 months from the and, accordingly, recommend that all Shareholders vote in favour passing of this Resolution, whichever is the earlier.
of all Resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own holdings.
