54 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Directors Remuneration Report This Report has been prepared on behalf of the Board by the Biographical details of the current members of the Committee are Remuneration Committee the Committee in accordance with set out on pages 26 and 27.
The General Counsel and Company the requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 issued pursuant met on four occasions during the year and attendance details are to the Companies Act 2006 the CA 2006.
The Company has also shown in the table on page 47. chosen to adopt some of the proposed regulations under the draft Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Details of advisors to the Committee can be found on page 65.
Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 ahead of the legislation becoming effective.
Summary of activity during the year During the year, the Committee conducted its annual review of With the exception of the annual performance related award, remuneration philosophy and reviewed the Companys remuneration service agreement details, shareholdings and external directorships practice to ensure that the overall remuneration structure continues of Directors, Total Shareholder Return graphs, details of advice to promote the Companys business strategy.
provided to the Committee, disclosure of remuneration of other Senior Executives and statement of Shareholder voting, the information Each year the Committee reviews the ongoing remuneration set out on pages 53 to 65 of this Directors Remuneration Report philosophy and trends for all employees across the Group.
The represents the auditable disclosures referred to in the Auditors Chairmans pay and benefits and the Executive Directors reward Report on page 67 as specified by the UK Listing Authority and packages were reviewed.
The performance targets of the the regulations current at the date of this Report.
Companys bonus and share incentive plans were considered and Shareholder approval will be sought at the AGM on 7 February 2013 Remuneration policy to amend the performance targets under the LTIP.
Further details of the proposed amendments are shown on page 62.
The Committee Role of the Committee also considered the headroom available in issued share capital The Board sets the Companys remuneration policy and the before the making of share plan awards, approved the vesting of Committee is responsible, within the authority delegated by the awards, considered the extent to which the Directors had complied Board, for determining specific remuneration packages and the terms with the Companys Shareholding Guidelines as set out on page and conditions of employment for the members of the Executive 64, considered developments in best practice and engaged with Committee, which comprises the Executive Directors and other Shareholder representatives and advisory bodies.
The Committee ensures that the members of the Executive Committee are provided with the appropriate incentives The proportion of time spent by the Committee on key items to enhance the Groups performance and to reward them for their during the year ended 30 September 2012 is summarised in the personal contribution to the success of the business.
The Committee chart below: reviews the remuneration arrangements for Group employees whose salaries exceed a specified level and administers the Companys share incentive plans.
The Committee also determines the Chairmans Agenda activity remuneration although the Board itself determines the level of fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors.
No Directors are involved in determining their own remuneration.
2 The Committee maintains an active dialogue with Shareholder representatives and its full Terms of Reference are set out on the Companys website at www.
1 Membership of the Committee The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors, as defined in the UK Corporate Governance Code 1 67% Regular items the Code.
During the year the Committee comprised the 2 33% Other items following Non-Executive Directors: Sir James Crosby Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director John Bason Susan Murray Don Robert Sir Ian Robinson
