Shareholder information Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 131 I General shareholder information Registrar Cash dividends All matters relating to the administration of shareholdings in the The Company normally pays a dividend twice each year.
Company should be directed to Capita Registrars, The Registry, We encourage UK resident ordinary Shareholders to elect to 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: telephone have their dividends paid directly into their bank or building society within the UK: Freephone 0800 280 2545 and from overseas: account.
This is a more secure method of payment and avoids 44 20 7763 0041: email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
delays or the cheques being lost.
Ordinary Shareholders resident outside the UK can also have any dividends in excess of 10 paid into their bank account directly via Capita Registrars global Shareholders can register online to view their Compass Group PLC payments service.
Details and terms and conditions may be shareholding details using the Share Portal, a service offered by viewed at www.
Shareholders registering for the Share Portal will require their investor code which is shown on share certificates.
The service enables Shareholders to: Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP A DRIP service is provided by Capita IRG Trustees Limited.
The check their shareholdings in Compass Group PLC 24 hours a day DRIP allows eligible Shareholders to use the whole of their cash gain easy access to a range of shareholder information including dividend to buy additional shares in the Company, thereby increasing indicative valuation and payment instruction details their shareholding.
Additional information, including details of use the Internet to appoint a proxy to attend general meetings how to sign up, can be obtained from the Companys website at of Compass Group PLC www.
com and from Capita IRG Trustees Limited, telephone within the UK: Freephone 0800 280 2545 and from Electronic communications overseas: 44 20 7763 0041: email: shares@capitaregistrars.
The Companys Annual Report and all other shareholder The latest date for receipt of new applications to participate communications can be found on our website.
The Company can, in respect of the 2012 final dividend is 31 January 2013. at Shareholders request, send Shareholders an email notification each time a new shareholder report or other shareholder communication is placed on our website.
This enables Shareholders to read and or Share price information download the information at their leisure.
There are no particular The current price of the Companys shares is available on the software requirements to view these documents, other than those Companys website at www.
This is supplied described on our website.
with a 15 minute delay to real time.
The provision of a facility to communicate with Shareholders Share dealing electronically does not discriminate between registered Shareholders of the same class.
The facility is available to all registered Shareholders The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, building on equal terms and participation is made as simple as possible.
societies, stockbrokers or share shops.
In addition, the Companys Please note that it is the Shareholders responsibility to notify our Registrar, Capita Registrars, offers online and telephone dealing Registrar through www.
com or by post of any services to buy or sell Compass Group PLC shares.
The service change to their email address.
Before electing for electronic is only available to private Shareholders aged 18 or over, resident in communication, Shareholders should ensure that they have the the UK, EEA, Channel Islands or the Isle of Man.
Full details can be appropriate computer capabilities.
The Company takes all reasonable obtained from www.
com or by telephoning within the UK: precautions to ensure no viruses are present in any communication Freephone 0800 280 2545. it sends out, but cannot accept any responsibility for loss or damage arising from the opening or use of any email or attachments from the ShareGift Company and recommends that Shareholders subject all messages ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme, is a free service to virus checking procedures prior to use.
Please note that any for Shareholders wishing to give shares to charitable causes.
electronic communication sent by a Shareholder to the Company It is particularly useful for those Shareholders who may wish to or the Registrar containing a computer virus will not be accepted.
dispose of a small quantity of shares where the market value makes it uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
Further information The Companys obligation is satisfied when it transmits an electronic can be obtained from ShareGifts website at www.
It cannot be held responsible for a failure in transmission telephone within the UK: 020 7930 3737 and from overseas: beyond its control.
In the event that the Company becomes 44 20 7930 3737, or from the Registrar.
aware that an electronic transmission is not successful, a paper notification will be sent to the Shareholder at their registered address.
Shareholders wishing to continue to receive shareholder American Depositary Receipts ADRs information in the traditional paper format should confirm this via BNY Mellon BNY maintains the Companys American Depositary www.
com or write to Capita Registrars.
If you have any enquiries about your holding of Compass American Depositary shares, you should contact Published information BNY Mellon, Shareowner Services, PO Box 358516, Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516, USA.
Further information can be found on BNYs If you would like to receive a hard copy of this Report or a copy in an website at www.
com using the symbol CMPGY alternative format such as large print, Braille or an audio version on and on the Companys website at www.
CD, please contact the Group Company Secretariat at the Companys registered office.
A copy can also be downloaded from our website at www.
132 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I General shareholder information Warning about unsolicited investment contacts Unsolicited mail Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue The Company is legally obliged to make its Register of and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, Members available, subject to a proper purpose test, to the or an inflated price for shares they own.
These calls come from public.
As a consequence of this, some Shareholders might fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are mostly based abroad.
UK Shareholders wishing to limit the amount of such mail should refer to the Mailing Preference Service website at www.
While high profits are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose their money.
Identity theft protecting an investment The Financial Services Authority FSA has found most share fraud Criminals may steal Shareholders personal information, putting victims are experienced investors who lose an average of 20,000, a holding at risk.
Advice on protecting a shareholding is available with around 200 million lost in the UK each year.
on the Companys website at www.
Protect yourself Financial calendar If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, Annual General Meeting: a premium price for shares you own, or free company or research 7 February 2013 reports, you should take these steps before handing over any money: Results announcements: 1.
Get the name of the person and organisation contacting you.
C heck the FSA Register at www.
uk fsaregister to ensure Full year November they are authorised.
Use the details on the FSA Register to contact the firm.
Call the FSA Helpline on 0845 606 1234 if there are no contact Interim August details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
Search the FSAs list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid doing business with.
REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investments, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme if things go wrong.
Report a scam If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FSA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you can find out about the latest investment scams.
You can also call the FSA Helpline on 0845 606 1234.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
