Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2012 1 Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS The consolidated financial statements of Computacenter plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 11 March 2013.
The balance sheet was signed on behalf of the Board by MJNorris and FA Conophy.
Computacenter plc is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in England whose shares are publicly traded.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand 000 except when otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Computacenter plc and its subsidiaries as at 31December each year.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using existing GAAP in each country of operation.
Adjustments are made on consolidation for differences that may exist between the respective local GAAPs and IFRS.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profit and losses resulting from intra-group transactions have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains control and cease to be consolidated from the date on which the Group no longer retains control.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year.
Except as noted below, adoption of these standards did not have any effect on the financial performance or position of the Group.
They did however give rise to additional disclosures.
The other pronouncements which came into force during the year were not relevant to the Group: IAS 12 Income Taxes Amendment Deferred Taxes: Recovery of Underlying Assets The amendment clarified the determination of deferred tax on investment property measured at fair value and introduces a rebuttable presumption that deferred tax on investment property measured using the fair value model in IAS 40 should be determined on the basis that its carrying amount will be recovered through sale.
It includes the requirement that deferred tax on non-depreciable assets that are measured using the revaluation model in IAS 16 should always be measured on a sale basis.
The amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012 and has been no effect on the Groups financial position, performance or its disclosures.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Enhanced Derecognition Disclosure Requirements The amendment requires additional disclosure about financial assets that have been transferred but not derecognised to enable the user of the Groups financial statements to understand the relationship with those assets that have not been derecognised and their associated liabilities.
In addition, the amendment requires disclosures about the entitys continuing involvement in derecognised assets to enable the users to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, such involvement.
The amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
The Group does not have any assets with these characteristics so there has been no effect on the presentation of its financial statements.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Improvements to IFRS In May 2012 the IASB issued its second omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
The adoption of the amendments did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements This improvement clarifies the difference between voluntary additional comparative information and the minimum required comparative information.
Generally, the minimum required comparative information is the previous period.
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment This improvement clarifies that major spare parts and servicing equipment that meet the definition of property, plant and equipment are not inventory.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments, Presentation This improvement clarifies that income taxes arising from distributions to equity holders are accounted for in accordance with IAS12 Income Taxes.
IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting The amendment aligns the disclosure requirements for total segment assets with total segment liabilities in interim financial statements.
This clarification also ensures that interim disclosures are aligned with annual disclosures.
Standards issued but not yet effective The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements are disclosed below.
The Group intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they become effective.
IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income Amendments to IAS IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures as revised in 2011 IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32 IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IFRS 7 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine The adoption of these standards are not expected to have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Critical judgements and estimates The preparation of the Groups financial statements requires management to make judgements on how to apply the Groups accounting policies and make estimates about the future.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in making these critical judgements and estimates, actual outcomes could be different.
The more significant judgements and estimates, where a risk exists that a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the next financial year could occur, relate to: t revenue recognition where, on a limited number of support and managed services contracts, an estimate of the total contract costs is required to determine the stage of completion: t estimation of residual value of assets owned to support certain contracts: t impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, which is based upon estimates of future cash flows and discount rates for the relevant cash-generating units: t the estimate of the value of the deferred consideration payable on acquisitions where that consideration is based on future performance or conditions: t recognition of deferred tax assets in respect of losses carried forward, which are dependent upon estimates of future profitability of certain Group companies: and t other estimated tax positions, where the decisions of tax authorities are uncertain.
Further information is provided within this note summarising significant accounting policies, and notes 9 and 14 to the financialstatements.
62 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation, down to residual value, is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: Freehold buildings 2550 years Short leasehold improvements shorter of 7 years and period to expiry of lease Fixtures and fittings Head office 515 years Other shorter of 7 years and period to expiry of lease Office machinery, computer hardware 215 years Motor vehicles 3 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the year the item is derecognised.
Leases Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of theleased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so asto achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly againstincome.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Intangible assets Software and software licences Software and software licences include computer software that is not integral to a related item of hardware.
These assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment in value.
Amortisation is calculated on straight-line basis over the estimated useful life.
Currently software is amortised over four years.
The carrying values of software and software licences are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
Software under development Costs that are incurred and that can be specifically attributed to the development phase of management information systems for internal use are capitalised and amortised over their useful life, once the asset becomes available for use.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of a business are carried initially at fair value.
Following initial recognition intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets with a finite life have no residual value and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives with charges included in administrative expenses as follows: Existing customer contracts 5 years Existing customer relationships 10 years Tools and technology 7 years The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Goodwill Business combinations are accounted for under IFRS 3 Revised using the purchase method.
Any excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as goodwill and is not amortised.
Goodwill recognised on acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, is recorded at its amortised cost at transition to IFRS and is no longer amortised.
Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by management, usually at business segment level or statutory company level as the case may be.
Where the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 December 1997 remains set off directly against reserves even if the related investment becomes impaired or the business is disposed of.
Impairment of assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Where an asset does not have independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is assessed for the cash-generating unit to which it belongs.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use of the asset or cash-generating unit.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting date whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the Group estimates the assets or cash-generating units recoverable amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the assumptions used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment was recognised.
The reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
As the Group has no assets carried at revalued amounts, such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Investment in associates The Groups interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments.
The Group income statement reflects the share of the associates results after tax.
Where there has been a change recognised in other comprehensive income of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any such change in the Group statement of other comprehensive income.
Financial assets Financial assets are recognised at their fair value which initially equates to the consideration given plus directly attributable transaction costs associated with the investment.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification as described in each category below.
Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value after making allowance for any obsolete or slow-moving items.
Costs include those incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition, on a first-in, first-out basis.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
64 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
