SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION which have been donated to ShareGift are aggregated and USEFUL HISTORICAL INFORMATION sold when practicable, with the proceeds passed onto a wide Share history of the Company range of UK charities.
ShareGift can also help with larger On 20 August 2007, the ordinary share capital was donations of shares.
Further details about ShareGift can be consolidated on the basis of 12 new ordinary shares of 1 obtained from their website at www.
org or by writing 27 12 pence for every 13 ordinary shares of 25 pence held to ShareGift at 17 Carlton House Terrace, London, SW1Y on the 17 August 2007.
A special dividend of 53 pence 5AH, telephone: 44 0 207 930 3737. per share was paid in connection with the consolidation on 31 August 2007.
On 4 March 2009, a rights issue was announced on the DIVIDENDS basis of 12 new ordinary shares for every existing share A requirement of the REIT regime is that a REIT must held on 17 March 2009 at a subscription price of 10 distribute to shareholders by way of dividend at least 90 per 1 12 pence per share.
Each 27 pence ordinary share in issue cent of its profits from the tax-exempt UK property rental was sub-divided and re-classied into one ordinary share business calculated under UK tax principles after the 1 12 of one pence each and one deferred share of 26 pence deduction of interest and capital allowances and excluding each.
The deferred shares were created for technical chargeable gains.
Such distributions are referred to as reasons in order to maintain the aggregate nominal value Property Income Distributions or PIDs.
Any further of the Companys share capital upon sub-division of its distributions may be paid as ordinary dividends or PIDs, which ordinary shares.
The very limited rights attached to the are derived from profits earned by its UK, non-REIT taxable deferred shares rendered them effectively valueless and business, as well as the Groups overseas operations.
they were cancelled on 8 May 2009.
In relation to the acquisition of Brixton, on 24 August 2009, SEGRO plc undertook a share consolidation, open DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN offer and private placing.
On 31 July 2009, every 10 SEGRO operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP in ordinary shares of one pence each were consolidated into respect of PIDs and ordinary cash dividends.
You can join the one ordinary share of ten pence each and, 0.10484 open DRIP online at www.
co. uk products pages offer shares of ten pence each were offered to every applyforadrip.
aspx where you can also view the DRIP terms shareholder of SEGRO plc who, on 13 July 2009, held and conditions or by completing a DRIP mandate form.
If you ten ordinary shares of one pence each.
The acquisition wish to receive a hard copy of the DRIP terms and conditions of Brixton was conducted by a scheme of arrangement.
or the DRIP mandate form please contact Equiniti see Brixton shareholders were offered 0.175 consideration shareholder enquiries.
The DRIP costs and charges are shares of ten pence each in SEGRO plc for each Brixton detailed in the DRIP terms and conditions.
WITHHOLDING TAX SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES SEGRO is required to withhold tax at source from its PIDs at If you have any questions about your shareholding or if you the basic tax rate 20 per cent.
UK shareholders need take require further guidance e. g. to notify a change of address no immediate action unless they qualify for exemption as please contact Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, described below and will receive with each dividend payment West Sussex BN99 6DA, telephone 44 0 871 384 2186. a tax deduction certicate stating the amount of tax deducted.
Alternatively, you can check your shareholding and access dividend information by registering at UK shareholders who fall into one of the classes of shareholder www.
co. uk, or you can securely send queries via the able to claim an exemption from withholding tax may be able website by visiting https: help.
to receive a gross PID payment if they have submitted a valid relevant Exemption Declaration form, either as a beneficial owner of the shares, or as an intermediary if the shares are ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS not registered in the name of the beneficial owner, to Equiniti.
Shareholders now have the opportunity to elect to receive The Exemption Declaration form is available at www.
shareholder communications electronically, e. g. Annual com under Investors Shareholder Information REIT.
A valid Reports, Interim Reports, Notice of the Annual General declaration form, once submitted, will continue to apply to Meeting and Proxy Forms.
You can elect to receive email future payments of PIDs until rescinded, and so it is a notications of shareholder communications by registering shareholders responsibility to notify SEGRO if their at www.
co. uk where you can also set up a bank circumstances change and they are no longer able to claim mandate to receive dividends directly to your bank account an exemption from withholding tax.
and to submit proxy votes for shareholder meetings.
Receiving the Companys communications electronically allows the Shareholders resident outside the UK may be able to claim a Company to communicate with its shareholders in a more partial refund either as an individual or as a company from environmentally friendly, cost effective and timely manner.
HMRC subject to the terms of a double tax treaty, if any, between the UK and the country in which the shareholder is resident.
AGM The 2013 AGM will be held at 11.00am on 23 April 2013 at RSA House, 8 John Adam Street, London WC2N 6EZ.
SHAREGIFT ShareGift is a charity registered under the name The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, registered charity number 1052686 which specialises in accepting donations of small numbers of shares which are uneconomic to sell on their own.
Shares 106 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012
