OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GLOSSARY OF TERMS COMPLETED PORTFOLIO NET INITIAL YIELD The completed investment and trading properties and the Annualised current passing rent less non-recoverable property Groups share of joint ventures completed investment and expenses such as empty rates, divided by the property trading properties.
valuation plus notional purchasers costs.
This is in accordance with EPRAs Best Practices Recommendations.
DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE The Groups current programme of developments authorised NET RENTAL INCOME or in the course of construction at the balance sheet date, Gross Rental Income less ground rents paid, net service together with potential schemes not yet commenced on land charge expenses and property operating expenses.
owned or controlled by the Group.
NET TRUE EQUIVALENT YIELD EPRA Net Equivalent Yield assuming rent is received quarterly The European Public Real Estate Association, a real estate in advance.
industry body, who have issued Best Practices Recommendations in order to provide consistency and PASSING RENT transparency in real estate reporting across Europe.
The annual rental income currently receivable on a property as at the balance sheet date which may be more or less than ESTIMATED COST TO COMPLETION the ERV.
Excludes rental income where a rent free period is in Costs still to be expended on a development or operation.
Excludes service charge income which is netted off redevelopment to practical completion not to complete against service charge expenses.
PRE-LET ESTIMATED RENTAL VALUE ERV A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of a The estimated annual market rental value of lettable space as development.
determined biannually by the Companys valuers.
This will normally be different from the rent being paid.
REIT A qualifying entity which has elected to be treated as a Real GEARING Estate Investment Trust for tax purposes.
In the UK, such Net borrowings divided by total shareholders equity entities must be listed on a recognised stock exchange, must excluding intangible assets and deferred tax provision.
be predominantly engaged in property investment activities and must meet certain ongoing qualications.
SEGRO plc GROSS RENTAL INCOME and its UK subsidiaries achieved REIT status with effect from Contracted rental income recognised in the period, including 1 January 2007. surrender premiums and interest receivable on finance leases.
Lease incentives, initial costs and any contracted future rental RENT ROLL increases are amortised on a straight-line basis over the See Passing Rent.
SPECULATIVE DEVELOPMENT HECTARES Ha Where a development has commenced prior to a lease The area of land measurement used in this analysis.
The agreement being signed in relation to that development.
conversion factor used, where appropriate, is 1 hectare 2.471 acres.
SQUARE METRES sq m The area of buildings measurements used in this analysis.
The INVESTMENT PROPERTY conversion factor used, where appropriate, is 1 square metre Completed land and buildings held for rental income return 10.7639 square feet.
TAKEBACK JOINT VENTURE Rental income lost due to lease expiry, exercise of break An entity in which the Group holds an interest and which is option, surrender or insolvency.
jointly controlled by the Group and one or more partners under a contractual arrangement whereby decisions on TOPPED UP NET INITIAL YIELD financial and operating policies essential to the operation, Net Initial Yield adjusted to include notional rent in respect of performance and financial position of the venture require each let properties which are subject to a rent free period at the partners consent.
LOAN TO VALUE LTV Net borrowings divided by the carrying value of total property TOTAL PROPERTY RETURN TPR assets investment, owner occupied and trading properties.
A measure of the ungeared return for the portfolio and is This is measured either on a look-through basis including calculated as the total realised and unrealised property gain joint ventures at share or wholly owned which excludes or loss plus net rental income, expressed as a percentage of joint ventures.
NET EQUIVALENT YIELD TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR The internal rate of return from an investment property, based A measure of return based upon share price movement over on the value of the property assuming the current passing rent the period and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
reverts to ERV and assuming the property becomes fully occupied over time.
TRADING PROPERTY Property being developed for sale or one which is being held for sale after development is complete.
com 107 NOTES 108 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 The printer and paper mill are both accredited with ISO14001 Registered ofce Environmental Management System and are both Forestry SEGRO plc Stewardship Council certied.
Cunard House CPI colour is a Carbon Neutral printing company.
15 Regent Street London SW1Y 4LR Designed and produced by saslondon.
com Registered in England and Wales Registered ofce number 167591 GO ONLINE To keep up to date with SEGRO, you can source facts and gures about the Group through the various sections on our website and sign up for email alerts for fast communication of breaking news.
Financial reports, shareholder information and property analysis are frequently updated and our current share price is always displayed on the Home Page.
As well as featuring detailed information about available property throughout the portfolio, www.
com now also includes a dedicated property search function making it easy for potential customers, or their agents, to nd business space that ts their requirement exactly.
SEGROs performance in areas such as sustainability and customer care are also featured on the site.
com OTHER PUBLICATIONS Additional disclosures on our property portfolio can be found in the 2012 Property Analysis Booklet.
com for this document and further information on Sustainability.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains certain forward looking statements with respect to SEGROs expectations and plans, strategy, management objectives, future developments and performance, costs, revenues and other trend information.
These statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that may occur in the future.
There are a number of factors which could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward looking statements and forecasts.
Certain statements have been made with reference to forecast process changes, economic conditions and the current regulatory environment.
Any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of SEGRO speak only as of the date they are made.
SEGRO does not undertake to update forward looking statements to reect any changes in SEGROs expectations with regard thereto or any changes in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Past share performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
