OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS O OTHER INF THER INFORMA ORMATION TION glossary of terms Annual General Meeting AGM EPRA adjusted EPS Joint venture The annual shareholder meeting of the EPS adjusted to determine the level of A joint venture is an entity that is controlled by Company.
recurring income arising from operational two or more parties under a contractual activities.
It excludes all items which are not agreement.
Decisions on financial and Building Research Establishment relevant to the underlying and recurring operating policies essential to the operation, Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM portfolio performance such as valuation performance and financial position of the BREEAM sets the standard for best practice in movements and deferred tax which is not venture require agreement from all parties.
sustainable building design, construction and expected to crystallise.
Buildings are assessed on a broad Lease incentives range of environmental factors and can be EPRA adjusted net asset value An incentive offered to a prospective tenant to given ratings ranging from pass to outstanding.
EPRA adjusted net asset value aims to provide enter into a lease.
For Shaftesbury this is usually a consistent long-term performance measure, in the form of an initial rent free period.
Under Capital value return by adjusting net asset value for assets and IFRS, the value of the lease incentive is spread The valuation movement and realised liabilities that are not expected to crystallise over the non-cancellable life of the lease.
surpluses or deficits arising from the Groups such as the movement in derivative financial investment portfolio expressed as a percentage Like-for-like portfolio instruments and deferred tax on property return on the valuation at the beginning of the The like-for-like portfolio includes all properties valuation movements.
period adjusted for acquisitions and capital that have been held since 1 October 2010, expenditure.
EPRA adjusted triple net asset value excluding any properties which were acquired EPRA adjusted net asset value incorporating or sold during the period.
Conservation area the fair value of debt.
An area of notable environmental or historical Loan-to-value ratio interest or importance the character or Estimated rental value ERV Nominal value of borrowings expressed as a appearance of which it is desirable to preserve percentage of the fair value property assets.
ERV is the market rental value of properties or enhance.
owned by the Group, estimated by the Groups London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR valuers.
Company LIBOR is the reference rate based on the Shaftesbury PLC whose shares are listed on the Fair Value interest rates at which banks borrow unsecured London Stock Exchange.
The amount at which an asset or liability could funds from other banks in the London be exchanged between two knowledgeable wholesale money markets.
Deritvative financial instruments willing unconnected parties in an arms length An interest rate swap is a financial derivative Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP transaction at the valuation date.
where two parties exchange future interest An arrangement under which an employee is payments based on a specified notional Gearing awarded shares in the Company at nil cost, amount.
One party pays fixed interest and the Nominal value of Group borrowings expressed subject to a period of continued employment other pays a floating rate usually on LIBOR.
as a percentage of Group shareholders funds, and the attainment of NAV and TSR targets over adjusted to exclude the movement in derivative a 3 year vesting period.
Diluted earnings per share financial instruments and deferred tax on Earnings per share adjusted to include the Net asset value NAV property valuation movements.
potentially dilutive effect of outstanding options Equity shareholders funds divided by the granted over ordinary shares.
Group number of ordinary shares at the balance sheet Group refers to Shaftesbury PLC, its date.
Diluted net asset value subsidiaries and its 50% interest in the Net asset value per share adjusted to include Property Income Distribution PID Longmartin joint venture.
the potentially dilutive effect of outstanding A PID is a distribution by a REIT to its options granted over ordinary shares.
Gross domestic product GDP shareholders paid out of qualifying profits.
A GDP refers to the market value of all final goods REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of its Earnings per share EPS and services produced in a given period.
qualifying profits as a PID to its shareholders.
Profit after tax divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the Head lease Real Estate Investment Trust REIT period.
A REIT is a tax designation for an entity or group A lease under which the Group holds an investment property.
investing in real estate that reduces or eliminates Equivalent yield corporation tax providing certain criteria Equivalent yield is the internal rate of return Initial yield obligations set out in tax legislation are met.
from an investment property, based on the The initial yield is the net initial income at the gross outlays for the purchase of a property date of valuation expressed as a percentage of Total return including purchase costs, reflecting reversions gross valuation.
Yields reflect net income after A combination of the capital value return and to current market rent, and such items as voids deduction of any ground rents, head rents, rent net property income from the portfolio for the and non-recoverable expenditure but charges and estimated irrecoverable outgoings.
year expressed as percentage return on the disregarding potential changes in market rents.
valuation at the beginning of the period adjusted Interest cover ratio for acquisitions and capital expenditure.
European Public Real Estate Association EPRA The interest cover ratio is a measure of the EPRA develops policies for standards of number of times the Group can make interest Total Shareholder Return TSR reporting disclosure, ethics and industry payments with its net property income.
The change in the market price of an ordinary practices.
share plus dividends reinvested expressed as a International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS percentage of the share price at the beginning EPRA adjusted EPS IFRS is a set of accounting standards developed of the period.
EPS adjusted to determine the level of by the International Accounting Standards recurring income arising from operational Board, an independent, not-for-profit UK Corporate Governance Code activities.
It excludes all items which are not organisation.
The June 2010 version of the FRCs UK relevant to the underlying and recurring Corporate Governance Code for listed Investment Property Databank IPD portfolio performance such as valuation companies.
IPD is an independent provider of real estate movements and deferred tax which is not performance analysis publishing detailed expected to crystallise.
information on real estate market returns.
SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 103 This Report was printed by Pureprint Group using their pureprint environmental print technology.
The printing inks are made using vegetable based oils.
The electricity was generated from renewable sources and 90% of the dry waste associated with this product will be diverted from landfill and recycled.
Pureprint Group is registered to environmental management system ISO 14001 and EMAS Eco Management Audit Scheme.
It is printed onpaper made from Elemental Chlorine Free ECF pulps from well managed forests.
The paper mill is registered to environmental management systems ISO 14001 and EMAS.
This reported is printed on FSC Forest Stewardship Council MunkenPolar paper and board.
co. uk} Print: Beacon Press {beaconpress.
co. uk} SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 104 SHAFTESBURY PLC PEGASUS HOUSE 37 43 SACKVILLE STREET LONDON W1S 3DL T: 020 7333 8118 F: 020 7333 0660
