100 Financial Statements Company Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the parent company financial statements of Croda In our opinion: International Plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the s the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly Company balance sheet, the Company accounting policies and the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in s the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting which the parent company financial statements are prepared is Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Matters on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities statement set out We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the on page 60, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true s adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law branches not visited by us: or and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards s the parent company financial statements and the part of the require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the for Auditors.
accounting records and returns: or s certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the made: or Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of s we have not received all the information and explanations we require the companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving for our audit.
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may Other matter come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Croda International Plc for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Richard Bunter policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, Hull of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall 1 March 2013 presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: s give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2012: s have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and s have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
