General Information CSR plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Churchill House, Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge, CB4 0WZ, United Kingdom.
CSR is a leading provider of multifunction connectivity, audio and location platforms.
These financial statements are presented in US dollars because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
Going concern The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The directors have considered future cash forecasts and revenue projections, based on prudent market data, in their consideration of going concern.
The issues surrounding going concern are discussed regularly by the Board and were evaluated as part of the Groups budget for the next financial year and the Groups longer term plans.
Note 36 includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of the financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk.
Management is currently of the opinion that the Group has adequate financial resources and a robust policy towards treasury risk and cash flow management.
The Group has $333.3 million of cash and cash equivalents, including treasury deposits and investments, as at 28 December 2012 and no debt liabilities.
The directors believe that the Group is securely placed to manage its business risks successfully despite continuing uncertainties with the economic outlook and challenging macro economic conditions.
After considering the above factors, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Adoption of New and Revised Standards Standards not affecting the reported results nor the financial position: The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current period.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements but may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
IFRS 7 amended Amendments enhancing disclosures about transfers of financial assets IFRS 1 amended Additional exemption for entities ceasing to suffer from severe hyperinflation IFRS 1 amended Replacement of fixed dates for certain exceptions with the date of transition to IFRSs IAS 1 requires a third comparative to be included within the consolidated balance sheet along with notes in the instance that any previously reported financial information is restated or represented.
In the current year, the Group changed its segments in accordance with IFRS 8 and this triggers this requirement.
However, management have concluded that the addition of the 2010 comparative information would not provide the user of the consolidated financial statements with any additional helpful information or enhance the overall clarity of the consolidated financial statements, given a full explanation of the impact of IFRS 8.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not yet been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases, had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 1 amended First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 7 amended Financial Instruments Disclosures IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IAS 1 amended Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 12 amended Income Taxes IAS 16 amended Property, Plant and Equipment IAS 19 amended Employee benefits IAS 27 amended Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 amended Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures IAS 32 amended Offsetting financial assets and liabilities IAS 34 amended Interim Financial Reporting Improvements to IFRSs May 2012 The adoption of both IFRS 9 and IFRS 13 will impact both the measurements and disclosures of FinancialInstruments.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of the other Standards and Interpretations listed above in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International FinancialReporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the European Union EU.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The financial statements cover the 52 week period from 31 December 2011 to 28 December 2012: the comparatives are presented for the 52 week period from 1 January 2011 to 30 December 2011 and income statement comparatives for the 52 week period from 2 January 2010 to 31 December 2010.
The financial statements are reported on a 52 or 53 week basis to be consistent with the Groups internal reporting.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of CSR plc the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries, together the Group drawn up to the dates indicated in the primary financial statements.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business Combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilitiesincurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for the control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in sales, general and administrative expenses as incurred for acquisitions that have occurred since the adoption of IFRS 3 2008.
Previous acquisitions have not been restated.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments see below.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified in equity are not recognised.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilitiesand contingent liabilitiesthat meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: deferred tax assets and liabilitiesand liabilitiesor assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively: liabilitiesor equity instruments related to the replacement by the Group of an acquirees share-based payment awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: and assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilitiesare recognised to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Where there are acquiree share-based payment awards that will be exchanged for awards held by the Group, the fair value of the outstanding awards is allocated between consideration and post-combination service.
The Group recognises a contingent liability on the consolidated balance sheet as of the acquisition date if there is a present obligation that arises from past events and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Goodwill Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the Groups previously held equity interest if any in the entity over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of identifiable assets acquired and the liabilitiesassumed.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the Groups previously held equity interest if any, the excess is recognised in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested annually or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
To determine the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit, the Group uses discounted projected cash flows based on approved budgets and projections covering a period up to five years and estimates growth rates, terminal growth rates and discount rates specific to the economic environment within which the cash-generating unit is operating.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of part or whole of a CGU, the attributable amount is included in the determination of profit or loss on disposal.
Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and delivery has occurred or the service has been provided, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured.
These criteria are generally met at the time the product is shipped and delivered to the customer and, depending on the delivery conditions, title and risk have passed to the customer and acceptance of the product, when contractually required, has been obtained, or, in cases where such acceptance is not contractually required, when management has established that all aforementioned conditions for revenue recognition have been met and no further post-shipment obligations exist other than obligations under warranty.
Examples of the above-mentioned delivery conditions are Free on Board point of delivery and Costs, Insurance Paid point of delivery, where the point of delivery may be the shipping warehouse or any other point of destination as agreed in the contract with the customer and where title and risk in the goods pass to the customer.
Revenues are recorded net of sales taxes, customer discounts, rebates and similar charges.
For products for which a right of return exists during a defined period, revenue recognition is determined based on the historical pattern of actual returns, or in cases where such information is lacking, revenue recognition is postponed until the return period has lapsed.
Return policies are typically based on customary return arrangements in local markets.
Revenue is shown net of estimated provision for credit notes and returns.
A provision for product warranty is made at the time of revenue recognition and reflects the estimated costs of replacement and free of charge services that will be incurred by the Company with respect to the sold products.
Royalty income, which is generally earned based upon a percentage of sales or a fixed amount per royalty earning product, is recognised upon shipment by the licencee as long as recovery is reasonably assured.
When a transaction requires the delivery of more than one product or service multiple components, the revenue recognition criteria are applied to the separately identifiable components.
A component is considered to be separately identifiable if the product or service delivered has stand-alone value to that customer and the fair value associated with the product or service can be measured reliably.
The amount recognised as revenue for each component is the fair value of the element in relation to the fair value of the arrangement as a whole.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued We determine the fair value of our maintenance obligations with reference to substantive renewal rates within the agreement or objective evidence of fair value.
In instances where we are unable to determine the fair value of our maintenance obligations, revenue for the entire arrangement is recognised ratably over the term of the arrangement.
We recognise maintenance and support revenue ratably over the term of the arrangement.
Software license revenue is recognised fully upon delivery, where there is no obligation to provide ongoing technicalsupport or software upgrades or enhancements.
If technicalsupport, software upgrades and enhancements are sold with the software license, revenue will be recognised for each identified component based on the relative fair value of the delivered component for which consideration is received or receivable.
With regards to technicalsupport, the revenue would be recognised ratably over the term of the arrangement.
Non-Recurring Engineering NRE revenue is recognised in line with the stage of completion.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Foreign Currencies The functional currency of all entities in the Group is the US dollar and this is also the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
Transactions in currencies other than US dollars are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilitiesthat are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilitiescarried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the net profit or loss for the period except for exchange differences on transactions entered into to hedge certain foreign currency risks see policy on Hedge Accounting.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts see FinancialInstruments policy for details of the Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilitiesof the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Government Grants Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them and that the grants will be received.
Government grants towards staff and marketing costs are recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them with the related costs and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Operating Result Operating profit loss is stated before investment income, exchange gains losses, other gains and losses, finance costs and tax.
The income statement has been presented with certain items split out as separate line items.
Management believes that this presentation aids the understanding of the Groups financial performance and this presentation is used for internal performance evaluation.
Items that have been split out on the face of the income statement are the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment charges under IFRS 2, charges associated with integration and restructuring, acquisition fees, charges relating to a fair value adjustment to inventory, charges relating to patent settlements, the fide-recognition of contingent consideration and litigation settlement income and charges.
Retirement Benefit Costs The Group has both a defined contribution retirement scheme and a defined benefit plan.
The defined benefit plan represents severance payments required under Israeli law to employees who joined the Israeli subsidiary prior to 2007 who leave the Group involuntarily.
These severance payments are funded by investment funds held in the name of each employee, with the Company liable for meeting any shortfall.
This meets the definition of a post employment defined benefit plan under IAS 19.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Differences between contributions payable in the period and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the Balance Sheet.
An asset or liability is recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in relation to the defined benefit scheme, as the present value of the defined benefit obligation, less the fair value of plan assets at the Balance Sheet date.
The financing cost, service cost and expected returns on plan assets are recognised within the Income statement in the period in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Where the carrying amount of scheme assets exceed the present value of the future benefits that are expected to flow to the scheme from those assets the asset ceiling, the surplus is recognised in full in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which this arises.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax expense and the deferred tax expense for the period.
The tax payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilitiesin the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilitiesare generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences, unused carried forward tax losses and unused carried forward tax credits can be utilised.
However, such assets and liabilitiesare not recognised if the temporary differences arise from: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilitiesin a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit: or investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which case deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilitiesare offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilitiesand when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilitieson a net basis.
Judgement is required when determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the tax authorities.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the benefit will be obtained.
Tax provisions are made if it is probable that a liability will arise and the liability can be reliably measured.
The Group reviews each significant tax liability or benefit to assess the appropriate accounting treatment.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of the assets, less estimated residual value, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight line method, on the following basis: Computer equipment 2 to 3 years Test equipment 2 to 5 years Office equipment 3 years Furniture and fittings 5 years Leasehold improvements Shorter useful life or minimum lease period Residual values are the estimated amount that the Group would obtain from disposal of the asset, after deducting estimated costs of disposal, if the asset were already of the age and in the condition expected at the end of its useful life, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date.
In general residual values are zero or negligible, due to the technicaland specialised nature of assets held.
Residual values are reviewed annually.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Other Intangible Assets Other intangible fixed assets are stated at cost or fair value for items acquired in business combinations, net of amortisation and any provision for impairment.
No amortisation is provided on assets in the course of construction.
On other intangible fixed assets, amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost or fair value, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life as follows: Software licences and intellectualproperty Licence term or 3 to 5 years where a perpetual licence Customer contracts and relationships 3 to 4 years Purchased IPR&D 4 to 10 years Internally developed technology 3 years Purchased developed technology 3 to 4 years Trade names 2 to 5 years Residual values are the estimated amount that the Group would obtain from disposal of the asset, after deducting estimated costs of disposal, if the asset were already of the age and in the condition expected at the end of its useful life, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost net of any provision for impairment.
Costs included are those that directly relate to the construction or production of the asset.
Amortisation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Research and Development Expenditure Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Groups product development is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: an asset is created that can be identified such as a new device or software : the project from which the asset arises meets the Groups criteria for assessing technicalfeasibility: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful lives.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Impairment of Tangible and Intangible AssetsExcluding Goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
After the recognition of an impairment loss, any depreciation or amortisation charge for the asset is adjusted for future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying value, less estimated residual value, on a systematic basis, over its remaining useful life.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but the reversal is limited so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the first-in-first-out FIFO method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial Instruments Financialassets and financial liabilitiesare recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Loans and Receivables Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment or appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Treasury deposits and investments Treasury deposits and investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initiallymeasured at cost, including transaction costs.
Treasury deposits and investments consist of money market deposits in USD, GBP and obligations of the United States government treasury with original maturities of over ninety days.
Interest income is recorded as it accrues over the period of the investment at rates fixed at the time of inception.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificantrisk of changes in value.
FinancialAssets at FVTPL Fair Value Through Profit and Loss FinancialAssets are classified as FVTPL where the asset has been designated as FVTPL.
A financial asset may be designated as FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilitiesor both, which is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the Group is provided internally on that basis: or it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 FinancialInstruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated FVTPL.
Financialassets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in the other gains and losses line in the income statement.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 36.
Available for sale financial assets The Group has investments in unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market but are classified as AFS financial assets and stated at fair value because the directors consider that fair value can be reliably measured.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve with the exception of impairment losses, which are recognised directly in profit or loss.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified into profit or loss.
Derecognition of FinancialAssets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire: or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
Impairment of FinancialAssets Financialassets, other than those held at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impaired.
Objective evidence of impairment could include significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the counterparty: or default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued FinancialLiabilities and Equity  equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Trade Payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are initiallymeasured at fair value, net of transaction cost.
Subsequently these are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest recognised on an effective yield basis.
Equity Instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
FinancialLiabilities at FVTPL Fair Value Through Profit and Loss  classified as FVTPL where the financial liability has been designated as FVTPL.
A financial liability may be designated as FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilitiesor both, which is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the Group is provided internally on that basis: or it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 FinancialInstruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated FVTPL.
Derecognition of FinancialLiabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilitieswhen, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative FinancialInstruments The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
The Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge these exposures.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 36 to the financial statements.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of directors, which provides written principles on the use of financial derivatives.
The Groups policy is to hedge between 75% and 90% of forecast GBP expenditure for the following 11 to 15 months.
Derivative financial instruments are initiallyrecorded at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
Hedge Accounting Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged item.
Note 23 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes.
Movements in the hedging reserve in equity are also detailed in the statement of changes in equity.
Cash Flow Hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled into profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss.
When the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions for warranty and returns costs are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant products, at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Groups liability.
Provision is made for onerous contracts at the fair value of the minimum unavoidable payments, net of any amounts recoverable.
Where amounts are known and timings certain, onerous amounts are accrued instead.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Share-Based Payment The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, including share options with non-market based vesting conditions.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
For grants where options vest in instalments over the vesting period, each instalment is treated as a separate grant, which results in fair value of each instalment being spread across the vesting period of that instalment.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model for most of share options in issue.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
For certain share options which include Total Shareholder Return TSR related conditions the fair value is estimated through the use of a Monte-Carlo simulation.
For a business combination where there are acquiree share-based payment awards that will be exchanged for awards held by the Group, the fair value of the outstanding awards is allocated between consideration and post-combination service in accordance with IFRS 3 2008 using the valuation techniques described in IFRS 2.
The allocation of the fair value of the options outstanding to consideration results in a credit to equity in the share-based payment reserve.
For cash-settled share-based payments, the Group recognises a liability for the goods or services acquired, measured initiallyat the fair value of the liability.
At each balance sheet date until the liability is settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability is re-measured, with any changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss for the period.
Employee Benefit Trust The Group has established an employee benefit trust which is a separately administered trust and is funded by loans from Group companies.
The assets of the trust comprise shares in CSR plc and cash balances.
The Group recognises assets and liabilitiesof the trust in the consolidated accounts and shares held by the trust are recorded at cost as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Contingent liabilities and assets A contingent liability may arise where there is possible obligation that arises from past events, whose occurrence or non-occurrence will only be confirmed by uncertain future events or where a present obligation arises from past events but where an outflow of resources from the Group is not probable and or the amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
In these circumstances, the Group discloses the nature of such contingent liabilities.
The Group recognises liabilitieswhere there is a present obligation and an outflow of resources from the Group is probable and can be reliably measured.
A contingent asset may arise where, as a result of past events, there is a possible asset which will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events which are not entirely within the control of the Group.
In these circumstances, the Group discloses the nature of such contingent assets.
The Group recognises an asset when an inflow of economic benefits is recognised as virtually certain.
Treasury shares The Group holds shares in its own equity that it has reacquired as part of a share buy-back programme.
The shares are shown as a deduction in equity and are measured at the fair value of the shares purchased and transaction costs.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation and Uncertainty These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and as adopted by the European Union EU.
The preparation of financial statements requires the directors to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilitiesand disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty.
Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgement based on various assumptions and other factors such as historical experience, current and expected economic conditions.
The directors constantly re-evaluate these significant factors and make adjustments where facts and circumstances dictate.
The directors believe that the following accounting policies are critical due to the degree of estimation required and or the potential material impact they may have on the Groups financial position and performance.
Inventory Valuation The level of inventory provisioning required is sensitive to changes in the forecast sales of particular products which is dependent on changes in conditions in the Groups markets.
If changes in actual market conditions are less favourable than those projected, additional inventory provisions may be required: similarly if changes in actual market conditions are more favourable than predicted, the Group may be able to release a proportion of the inventory provision.
Business Combinations and Goodwill Impairments The amount of goodwill initiallyrecognised as a result of a business combination is dependent on the allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the contingent liabilitiesassumed.
The Group uses judgement, estimates and involves external specialists in determining the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilitiesacquired in a business combination, as well as calculatingthe fair value of the purchase consideration on acquisition.
Allocation of the purchase price affects the results of the Group as finite lived intangible assets are amortised, whereas indefinite lived intangible assets, including goodwill, are not amortised and could result in differing amortisation charges based on the allocation to indefinite lived and finite lived intangible assets.
The Group assesses the carrying value of identifiable intangible assets, long-lived assets and goodwill annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying value may not be recoverable.
Factors considered important, which could trigger an impairment review, include the following: significant under performance relative to historical or projected future results: significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business: Group market capitalisation being less than the carrying value of net assets: and significantly negative industry or economic trends.
The recoverable amounts of the Groups CGUs are determined from value in use calculations based upon cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budget approved by management and the Board of Directors for the next year and longer range financial plans covering the subsequent four years that have been reviewed and approved by management and the Board of Directors.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the growth in future sales, projected production costs, operating expenditures, the discount rates and terminal growth rates.
The Group determines discount rates to be used based on the risk inherent in the related activitys current business model and industry comparisons, where these risks cannot be reflected in cashflows.
Terminal values are based on the forecasted cash flows in the final year of the five year long range plan.
While the Group believes that its assumptions are appropriate, such amounts estimated could differ materially from what will actually occur in the future.
In assessing goodwill, these discounted cash flows are prepared at a cash-generating unit level.
Note 16 to the financial statements provides further disclosures on the assumptions underlying the impairment review and the allocation of goodwill by reportable segments.
Accounting for Share-based Payments The fair value of some of the options granted is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and, behavioural considerations.
The volatility used in the model is based on movements in the Groups share price for a period matching that of the vesting period of the options.
The risk-free interest rate used is the implied yield currently available on zero-coupon government issues in the UK, with a remaining term equal to the expected term of the option being valued based on the options remaining contractual life and taking into account the effects of expected early exercise.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of shares that are expected to become exercisable.
The estimates of the number of share options and awards that are expected to become exercisable are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
The impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, is recognised in the income statement and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Where there are indicators that there have been changes to non-market vesting conditions, subsequent to the grant date, the amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that vest.
Revenue recognition Sales are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the buyer, continuing managerial involvement usually associated with ownership and effective control have ceased, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably, it is probable that economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements This requires the Group to assess at the point of delivery whether these criteria have been met.
When the Group determines that such criteria have been met, revenue is recognised.
The Group records estimated reductions to revenue for pricing agreements, price protection, other volume based rebates and expected returns.
Estimated sales adjustments for volume based discount programs are based largely on shipment information.
Income Taxes The Group is subject to the income tax laws of the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, principally the United Kingdom.
These laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by taxpayers and tax authorities.
When establishing income tax provisions, we therefore make a number of judgments and interpretations about the application and interaction of these laws.
Changes in these tax laws or our interpretations of these laws and the resolution of future tax audits could significantly impact our effective tax rate and the results of operations in a given period.
Where it is probable that a position may be successfully challenged by revenue authorities, a tax provision is created for the tax on the probable adjustment.
The Group estimates its income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
This process involves estimating its current tax liability together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes.
These differences result in the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within the consolidated balance sheet to the extent that we believe they are recoverable.
Managements judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised where management believes there are sufficient taxable temporary differences or it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available in future to realise deferred tax assets.
Although the deferred tax assets which have been recognised are considered realisable, actual amounts could be reduced if future taxable income is lower than expected.
This could materially affect the Groups reported net income and financial position.
Litigation and claims The Group may be subject to claims, legal actions and complaints, including patent infringements, arising in the normal course of business.
The likelihood and ultimate outcome of such occurrences is not presently determinable therefore the Group uses estimation and judgement on whether any of these claims or litigation should result in a liability being recognised.
Issues can, and do, take many years to resolve.
Significant items of litigation and claims on which the Group has exercised accounting judgement in respect of whether or not to recognise a contingent liability are discussed in note 31.
The inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these items means eventual resolution could differ from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and cash flows.
Segmental Reporting CSR is a leading provider of platform technology solutions for the consumer electronics market.
Products from which Reportable Segments Derive their Revenues During the year the internal reporting structures of the Group were reorganised changing the nature and content of information used by the Chief Executive, who is our Chief operating decision maker, to assess operational performance and allocate resource: this has caused a change in the identificationof Operating Segments as defined under IFRS 8.
In our opinion each operating segment is a reporting segment, therefore the results of the new Operating Segments are Voice & Music, Consumer, Automotive and Legacy are reported below: results from 2011 and 2010 have been restated into this new structure.
The Group reportable segments under IFRS 8 Operating Segments are as follows: Voice & Music Mono and Stereo Audio Automotive Automotive and Personal Navigation Device PND applications Consumer Cameras, Gaming, Document Imaging, Indoors Location, Bluetooth Smart and other consumer.
applications Legacy Products Group LPG Legacy Home Entertainment, Handset Connectivity and Handset Location components 98 99 www.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Segment Revenues and Results The following is an analysis of the Groups revenue and results by reportable segment: Voice & Automotive Consumer Music LPG Unallocated Consolidated 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Revenue Total segment revenue 212,178 258,732 190,119 364,327 1,025,356 Segment result Underlying operating profit loss 3,245 15,643 75,115 11,312 74,029 Share-based payment charges 27,753 27,753 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 22,732 22,732 Integration and restructuring 27,523 27,523 Litigation and patent settlement charges 15,500 15,500 Other operating income 214 214 Disposal of development operations note 38 127,178 127,178 Operating profit 107,913 Investment income note 5 1,161 Other gains and losses note 11 14 Exchange losses 395 Finance costs note 12 6,711 Profit before tax 101,982 The Group discloses underlying operating profit as the performance measure of segment result as this is the measure used in the decision-making and resource allocation process of the Chief Operating Decision Maker, which is the Groups Chief Executive Officer.
Investment income and finance costs are not allocated to reportable segments for the purposes of reporting to the Groups Chief Executive Officer.
There is no intra-segment revenue.
The accounting policies for the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies.
Segment underlying operating profit represents operating profit earned by each segment without allocation, in each period, of acquisition-related fees, share-based payment charges, litigation and patent settlements, integration and restructuring charges, charges related to the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, charges related to the fair value adjustment to inventory and the fiderecognition of contingent consideration.
The following is an analysis of the Groups revenue and results by reportable segment: Voice & Automotive Consumer Music LPG Unallocated Consolidated 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Revenue Total segment revenue 205,045 165,555 149,853 324,737 845,190 Segment result Underlying operating profit loss 10,625 7,999 59,496 12,916 49,206 Fair value adjustment to inventory 28,187 28,187 Share-based payment charges 14,130 14,130 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 18,681 18,681 Integration and restructuring 33,721 33,721 Acquisition-related fees 13,004 13,004 Litigation settlement 14,532 14,532 Patent settlements 6,000 6,000 fide-recognition of contingent consideration 1,620 1,620 Operating loss 48,365 Investment income note 5 1,627 Other gains and losses note 11 320 Exchange losses 748 Finance costs note 12 4,298 Loss before tax 51,464 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements The following is an analysis of the Groups revenue and results by reportable segment in the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010.
Voice & Automotive Consumer Music LPG Unallocated Consolidated 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Revenue Total segment revenue 223,071 100,124 138,264 339,149 800,608 Segment result Underlying operating profit 44,819 9,442 47,874 23,159 78,976 Share-based payment charges 9,822 9,822 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 14,137 14,137 Integration and restructuring 1,085 1,085 Acquisition-related fees 397 397 Litigation settlement 59,788 59,788 Operating loss 6,253 Investment income note 5 812 Other gains and losses note 11 640 Exchange losses 186 Finance costs note 12 718 Loss before tax 5,705 Underlying operating profit includes depreciation and amortisation of other intangible assets, which have been apportioned to the reportable segments as follows: Voice & Automotive Consumer Music LPG Total Depreciationand amortisation of other intangible assets $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 4,950 6,036 4,436 8,502 23,924 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 6,318 5,101 4,617 10,007 26,043 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010 6,689 3,003 4,146 10,170 24,008 No information is provided for segment assets and liabilitiesas these measures are not provided to the chief operating decision maker.
Revenues from Major Products The Groups revenues from its major products were as follows: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 $000 $000 $000 Sale of integrated circuits 964,774 808,463 782,332 Sale of software 8,142 7,953 10,444 Royalties 52,440 28,774 7,832 Consolidated revenue excluding investment income 1,025,356 845,190 800,608 Geographical Information The Group operates in four principal geographical areas the UK country of domicile, Rest of Europe, the Americas and Asia.
The Groups revenue from external customers and information about its segment assets non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets and other financial assets by geographical location is detailed below: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 Revenue $000 $000 $000 UK 156 185 6,655 Rest of Europe 39,057 60,508 110,171 USA including the Americas 82,969 89,498 92,316 Asia 903,174 694,999 591,466 1,025,356 845,190 800,608 Revenues are attributed to geographical areas on the basis of the customers manufacturing location.
28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 Non current assets $000 $000 $000 UK 160,175 267,753 276,829 Rest of Europe 632 1,674 614 USA including the Americas 107,652 142,860 4,460 Asia 95,159 86,339 8,172 363,618 498,626 290,075 Non-current assets, being goodwill, property, plant and equipment, long term assets, and other intangible assets excluding deferred tax assets are attributed to the location where they are situated.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Information About Major Customers In 2012, included in revenues arising from Consumer and LPG are revenues of approximately $113.9 million 2011: $87.3 million, 2010: $115.2 million, representing 11% 2011: 10%, 2010: 14% of revenue relating to the Groups largest customer.
In 2012, 2011 and 2010 only the largest customer of the Group exceeded 10% of revenue in the 52 week period.
Revenue from the top five customers represents 30% of revenues 2011: 38%: 2010: 42%.
Profit for the Period Profit for the period has been arrived at after charging crediting : 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 $000 $000 $000 Net foreign exchange losses 1,638 2,799 2,485 Government grants towards staff and marketing costs 671 9 142 Research and development costs 290,346 241,763 199,927 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16,171 18,371 20,091 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 916 62 580 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 23 135 Amortisation of intangible assets 30,485 26,353 18,054 Staff costs see note 9 314,055 228,369 170,791 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 468,500 394,618 397,971 Write-downs of inventories recognised as an expense net of movement in inventory provisions 2,267 9,086 2,474 Auditors remuneration for audit services see note 8 993 1,051 789 8.
Auditors remuneration 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 $000 $000 $000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 68 85 78 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 678 788 505 Services pursuant to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 137 134 162 Total audit fees 883 1,007 745 Other services Audit related assurance 110 44 44 Taxation compliance services 157 42 47 Other taxation advisory services 515 424 347 Other assurance services 284 Corporate finance services 350 2,096 Total non audit fees 1,132 2,890 438 The audit related assurance fees refer to fees for the performance of an interim review.
Tax compliance fees relate to assistance in the filing of group subsidiary statutory tax returns.
Fees for other taxation services and corporate finance services predominantly relate to the disposal of development operations in handset connectivity and location to Samsung.
Staff Costs The average monthly number of employees including executive directors was: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 Number Number Number Research and development 1,654 1,422 1,052 Sales and marketing 548 410 260 General and administrative 272 214 151 2,474 2,046 1,463 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 $000 $000 $000 Salaries 262,670 193,258 142,221 Social security costs 17,541 13,607 11,704 Other pension costs 8,109 7,586 7,231 Share based payment charges 25,735 13,918 9,635 314,055 228,369 170,791 10.
Investment revenue 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 $000 $000 $000 Short term bank deposits 636 735 316 Treasury deposits and investments 32 618 496 Expected return on plan assets 493 274 1,161 1,627 812 11.
Other gains and losses 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 $000 $000 $000 Change in the fair value of investments designated as FVTPL on initial recognition 14 320 640 12.
Finance Costs 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 $000 $000 $000 Interest expense and similar charges 594 418 493 Unwinding of discount on contingent consideration 5315 Unwinding of discount on onerous lease provision 255 252 210 Unwinding of discount on litigation accrual 2,330 2,525 Unwinding of discount on intangible asset accrual 463 438 Unwinding of discount on defined benefit pension deficit 459 274 Unwinding of discount on acquisition fair value adjustments 512 Loss on purchase of treasury shares 338 Option premium cost 2,098 6,711 4,298 718 13.
Dividends 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 $000 $000 $000 Proposed final dividend for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 of $0.08 per share 13,267 Interim dividend for the 26 weeks ended 30 June 2012 of 2.3p per share 7,648 Final dividend for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 of 4.41p per share 13,617 Interim dividend for the 26 weeks ended 1 July 2011 of 2p per share 5,376 Final dividend for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010 of 4p per share 10,973 20,915 18,993 10,973 The proposed final dividend of $0.08 per share is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in the financial statements.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Taxation 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 $000 $000 $000 Current income tax payable 16,861 2,143 2,383 Adjustment in respect of current income tax of prior years 299 2,171 1,780 Total current income tax charge 16,562 4,314 603 Deferred tax charge credit 45,373 6,751 19,073 Deferred tax benefit on recognition of previously unrecognized tax losses and temporary differences 16,456 78,664 12,172 Deferred tax expense from fide-recognition of tax losses 0 900 5,048 Deferred tax rate change 1,817 1,843 531 Adjustment in respect of deferred tax of prior years 3,453 6,972 2,732 Total deferred tax charge credit note 24 34,187 89,644 22,934 Total tax charge credit 50,749 85,330 22,331 Corporation tax is calculated at 24.5% 2011: 26.5%: 2010: 28.0% : of the estimated assessable loss for the period.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The credit for the period can be reconciled to the Profit loss per the income statement as follows: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 $000 % $000 % $000 % Profit Loss before tax 101,982 100.0 51,464 100.0 5,705 100.0 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 24.5% 2011: 26.5%, 2010: 28% 24,984 24.5 13,638 26.5 1,597 28.0 Tax benefit of research and development expenditure 11,456 11.2 7,529 14.6 7,337 128.6 Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other tax jurisdictions 6,834 6.7 5,441 10.6 10,908 191.2 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 3,154 3.1 4,801 9.3 952 16.7 Effect of tax holidays in foreign jurisdictions 450 7.9 Non-deductible expenses 8,736 8.6 8,027 15.6 3,602 63.1 Recognition of previously unrecognized tax losses and temporary differences 16,456 16.1 78,664 152.9 12,172 213.2 Current year tax losses not recognised 9,626 9.4 3,091 6.0 Deferred tax rate change 1,817 1.8 1,843 3.6 531 9.3 fide-recognition of tax losses 900 1.7 5,048 88.4 Foreign witholding tax 6,397 6.3 Non-deductible costs and goodwill disposal relating to the disposal of development operations in handset connectivity and location 17,113 16.7 Tax charge credit and effective tax rate for the period 50,749 49.8 85,330 165.8 22,331 391.4 Finance Act 2012 enacted reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 25% to 24% from 1 April 2012 and 23% from 1 April 2013.
The effect of the new rate is to reduce the deferred tax asset by $1.9m.
An additional change to the main rate of UK corporation tax is proposed, to reduce the rate to 22% by 1 April 2014 and 21% by 1 April 2015.
These changes had not been substantially enacted by the Balance Sheet date and consequently, not included in these financial statements.
The effect of this decrease in the tax rate to 21% on the Groups deferred tax assets has been assessed and the impact is a reduction in the deferred tax asset of $469,794 2011: $2,675,547.
In addition to the amounts charged to the income statement, the following amounts relating to tax have been recognised directly in other comprehensive income: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 Deferred tax $000 $000 $000 Arising on income and expenses recognised in other comprehensive income: Net tax on cash flow hedges 1,210 427 870  equity to profit or loss: Relating to cash flow hedges 253 1,080 199 Total income tax recognised directly in other comprehensive income 957 653 671 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements In addition to the amount charged to the income statement and other comprehensive income, the following amounts relating to tax have been recognised directly in equity: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 Current tax $000 $000 $000 Current tax benefit taken to equity on share option gains.
162 Deferred tax Deferred tax benefit reduction on share option gains 573 645 182 Total income tax recognised directly in equity 573 483 182 15.
Earnings Per Share The calculations of earnings per share are based on the following data: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 Earnings $000 $000 $000 Profit for the period 51,233 33,866 16,626 Number of shares Number of shares Number of shares Number of shares Weighted average number of shares: For basic earnings per share 197,238,649 178,198,771 178,074,862 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares share options 5,992,855 3,195,201 2,959,012 For diluted earnings per share 203,231,504 181,393,972 181,033,874 16.
Goodwill Cost $000 At 31 December 2010 261,558 Recognised on acquisition of Zoran Corporation note 39 108,098 At 30 December 2011 369,656 Derecognised on disposal of development operations in handset connectivity and handset location 151,477 Adjustment to Goodwill recognised on acquisition of Zoran Corporation 605 At28 December 2012 218,784 Accumulated impairment losses At 31 December 2010, 30 December 2011 and 28 December 2012 36,907 Carrying Amount At 28 December 2012 181,877 At 30 December 2011 332,749 At 31 December 2010 224,651 Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
Further disclosures are provided below for all cash generating units where the Group holds an individual goodwill item relating to a CGU which is significant, which management considers to be 10% of the total net book value in comparison with the Groups total carrying value of goodwill, or, where there are no significant allocations of goodwill at a lower level, for groups of cash generating units within a reportable segment.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 Reportable segments and cash generating units $000 $000 Automotive Business Group 51,404 51,404 Consumer Business Group Printers 58,161 57,840 Cameras 50,537 50,258 Other Consumer CGUs 9,505 12,770 Voice & Music Business Group 12,270 9,000 Legacy Product Group 151,477 181,877 332,749 Goodwill of $ 151.5 million allocated to the Legacy product group cash generating unit was derecognised following the disposal of development operations in handset connectivity and handset location to Samsung during 2012.
There is now no goodwill allocated to this cash generating unit.
Goodwill of $108.7 million was recognised on the acquisition of Zoran during 2011, of which $0.6m was recognised due to a change in the fair value of assets acquired identified during 2012.
Of the total goodwill, $50.5 million was allocated to the Cameras cash generating unit and $58.2 million was allocated to the Printers cash generating units based on the relative fair value of these cash generating units.
Following this acquisition and the subsequent announcement that the Group would discontinue investment in digital television systems-on-a-chip and in silicon tuners, an internal reorganisation was completed which affected the cash generating units of the Group.
Goodwill balances present at the time of the acquisition were reallocated to new cash generating units or to groups of cash generating units where they represented the lowest level at which goodwill was monitored.
In 2010 goodwill of $3.2 million was recognised on the acquisition of APT Licencing Limited and was allocated to the Consumer cash generating unit which at the time excluded Printers, as this unit was expected to realise the benefits of the acquisition.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The Group tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
At various times during 2012, the net assets of the Group have exceeded its market capitalisation and management have performed additional impairment testing.
Following the tests throughout the year and the annual impairment test which takes place in the fourth quarter of each year, it was determined that no impairment of goodwill is required.
Estimation Methodology The recoverable amounts of the Groups CGUs are determined from value in use calculations based upon cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budget approved by management and the Board of Directors for the next year and longer range financial plans covering the subsequent four years that have been reviewed and approved by management and the Board of Directors.
Future sales are estimated based on recent reports on the markets the Group operates in, produced by independent analysts and containing estimates for market size for a number of different technologies in different end markets.
These external estimates are compared with internal estimates to produce a considered view of available market size and likely market shares.
Management uses this information, combined with internal customer specific information regarding design wins, projected changes in market share based on current positions and forecast technology penetration rates, to derive its best assessment of the future sales and gross margins.
A terminal value is included for the period beyond five years from the balance sheet date based upon the estimated cashflows in the fifth year and a terminal growth rate.
Variation in selling prices and direct costs are based on well established trends in the semiconductor industry as well as managements experience of how pricing and direct costs vary over a products lifecycle, incorporating the impacts of already quoted selling prices and the result of discussions with suppliers on future direct cost movements.
Projected operating expenditures are consistent with the long term operating model of the Group, specifically R&D expense of approximately 25% 2011: 23%: 2010: 20% of revenue and SG&A expense of around 12% 2011: 10%: 2010: 10% of revenue.
Approved forecasts assume the Group reaches these ratios over a period of a number of years.
The actual operating costs for the group were 52% in 2012 2011: 44%, with the full-year absorption of the Zoran cost base only partially offset by synergy savings achieved during the year.
Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the group, specifically using a weighted average cost of capital and estimating risk free rates based on US Treasury Bonds, using published equity betas for the group and making a reasonable estimate of the Equity Risk Premium.
Management has concluded that it is appropriate to use a pre tax discount rate of 11.7%, which fully reflects the risk profile of the Group.
In the prior period, management concluded that it was appropriate to use a different discount rate for the former CSR and the former Zoran businesses, reflecting their differing level of confidence that risk is fully incorporated into the forecast cash flows.
Within the former CSR business, as the forecast cash flows had been adjusted for the risks specific to each cash generating unit, with the discount rate reflecting the risk specific to the former CSR business as a whole, the pre-tax rate used to discount the forecast cash flows was 11%.
Within the former Zoran business, management attached a greater degree of risk to the acquired cash generating units, the pre-tax rate used to discount the forecast cash flows was 13%.
This has been calculated on a basis which is consistent with the assumptions used in valuing the acquired intangible assets, as outlined in note 39.
During 2012 management reviewed the long term growth rates in the markets in which the Group operates: as much of our business operates in Asian markets where growth rates are typically higher it was concluded that 3.5% was an appropriate terminal growth rate to use across the business 2011: 3.5%.
While growth rates have fallen globally due to the macro economic situation, this rate is below the long term growth rate projected for our major markets.
The estimation methodology is the same for all cash generating units.
The Group has conducted sensitivity analysis on a variety of scenarios when completing the annual impairment review.
The directors have concluded that there are no cash generating units where reasonably possible changes in assumptions would cause the carrying amount of goodwill to exceed value in use.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements 17.
The impairment charge of $2.3 million which is included within Integration and restructuring costs as disclosed in note 33 is in relation to certain CCL Licenses held by the Group.
Following the disposal of development operations in handset connectivity and location, management reassessed the carrying value of its intangible assets associated with the Handsets business line, now within the Legacy Product Group.
It was identified that the carrying amount of these assets was no longer recoverable and the assets have been fully impaired accordingly.
In the first quarter of 2012, the Group purchased capabilities in digital class D audio amplifier technology from Diodes Inc. An addition of $0.3m in Purchased Developed Technology and an addition of $2.5 million in Purchased in Process Research & Development was recognised as a consequence of this transaction.
The impairment charge of $0.5 million this is included within Integration and restructuring in note 33, recognised in the 52 week period ended 30 December 2011, is in relation to intangibles acquired as part of the acquisition of Zoran Corporation.
Following the public announcement of the discontinuation of the Groups investment in both Digital TV and silicon tuners, management reassessed the valuation of the intangible assets associated with the Legacy Product Group.
It had been identified that the carrying amount of certain of these assets was not fully recoverable and accordingly an impairment charge had been recognised in the prior period.
In the first quarter of 2011, along with other wireless semiconductor companies, CSR negotiated a confidential settlement agreement with Wi-LAN to dismiss all litigation against CSR and its customers and obtain a multi-year licensing arrangement with respect to WiLANs wireless patent portfolio, resulting in an increase in software licences and purchased intellectualproperty during the prior period.
At 28 December 2012, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of other intangible assets amounting to $nil 2011: $nil.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
As a consequence of the decision to discontinue the investment in both Digital TV and silicon tuners, these items were no longer required and accordingly an impairment charge was recognised in the prior period.
At 28 December 2012, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to $930,000 30 December 2011: $1,030,000.
Investments 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 Available for sale investments carried at fair value $000 $000 Shares in unquoted equity securities 3,719 3,610 20.
Long-term assets 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 $000 $000 31,000 As part of the disposal of development operations in handset connectivity and location, $31 million of the cash consideration was not received directly into CSR, but was placed by Samsung into an escrow account for use against future potential warranty claims from third parties.
CSR has full rights over this cash, which will revert to CSR if unused after 36 months.
The escrow account will be closed in October 2015, which is 36 months after the disposal of the development operations in handset connectivity and location, unless there are open and unsettled claims, in which case funds will be retained within the escrow account to settle these.
Any new claims arising after 36 months will be settled by Samsung, with no further liability to the Group.
There were no claims, either filed or outstanding, at the Balance Sheet date.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements The Group has rights over any interest arising on the balance in escrow account and hence there is no requirement to discount the long term asset.
The amounts held in escrow have been included as a component of the consideration for the disposal of development operations in handset connectivity and location, see note 38.
Other FinancialAssets 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 Trade and other receivables $000 $000 Amounts receivable for sale of goods and software 80,003 86,144 Amounts receivable for royalties 14,926 12,344 Total trade receivables 94,929 98,488 VAT 2,810 3,432 Other debtors 5,897 5,534 Prepayments and accrued income 14,070 16,343 117,706 123,797 The average credit period taken on trade receivables is 39 days 30 December 2011: 40 days.
A specific allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts within trade receivables of $449,000 30 December 2011: $156,000.
This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience.
An allowance for credit notes and price adjustments has also been made within trade receivables of $350,000 30 December 2011: $400,000.
Before accepting any new customers, the Group uses a credit scoring system to assess the potential customers credit quality and define credit limits by customer.
Credit limits and credit quality are regularly reviewed.
It is the policy of the Group to only transact with creditworthy entities to mitigate the risk of default associated with trade receivables.
The Group provides for trade receivables based on amounts estimated as irrecoverable determined by reference to past default experience.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Bank balances and cash comprise cash held by the Group and short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
Treasury Deposits and Investment Treasury deposits and investments represent bank deposits and obligations of the United States treasury with an original maturity of over three months.
Some of these amounts are held as FVTPL assets see note 36. Credit Risk The Groups principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, treasury deposits and trade and other receivables.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is actively managed to limit the associated risk and counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 $000 $000 Total trade receivables 94,929 98,488 VAT and other debtors 8,707 8,966 Cash and cash equivalents 314,760 211,907 Treasury deposits and investments 18,491 65,938 Derivative financial instruments 2,702 148 439,589 385,447 108 109 www.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The maximum exposure to credit risk for total trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was: 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 $000 $000 Europe 11,597 6,083 USA 11,202 9,079 Asia 70,177 78,149 Other 1,953 5,177 94,929 98,488 The Groups exposure to credit risk is spread over a number of counterparties and customers with limited concentrations.
The Groups largest customer accounts for $7.9 million of trade receivables at 28 December 2012 30 December 2011: $8.7 million.
Impairment Losses The aging of total trade receivables at the reporting date was: Gross Impairment Gross Impairment 28 December 2012 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 30 December 2011 $000 $000 $000 $000 Not past due 91,839 516 89,082 200 Past due 1 30 days 2,969 175 8,051 200 Past due 31 60 days 432 1,199 Past due 61 90 days 160 28 248 Past due 91 120 days 9 85 More than 121 days past due 319 80 379 156 95,728 799 99,044 556 The movement in the allowances in respect of trade receivables during the period was as follows: 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 $000 $000 Balance at the beginning of the period 556 450 Utilised in the period 2,852 1,366 Additional provisions in the period 3,095 1,472 Balance at the end of the period 799 556 Included in the Groups trade receivables balance are debtors with a carrying amount of $3.6 million 2011: $9.6 million which are past due but for which the Group has not provided, as there has been no significant change in the credit quality of the receivables and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
$2.8 million of the past due but not provided trade receivables were received within two weeks of the balance sheet date 2011: $6.8 million.
Based on past experience, the Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables not past due, other than for credit notes or price adjustments.
Derivative FinancialInstruments Currency Derivatives The Group utilises currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows.
The instruments purchased are denominated in GBP.
At the balance sheet date, the total notional amount of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts, designated in hedging relationships, that the Group has committed is as below: 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 $000 $000 Forward foreign exchange contracts 100,641 107,631 These arrangements are designed to address significant exchange exposures for the next 12 months 2011: 15 months and are renewed on a rolling basis to cover between 11 and 15 months forward.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements At the balance sheet date, the fair value of the Groups currency derivatives is shown below: Derivatives that are designated and effective as hedging instruments carried at fair value 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 $000 $000 Forward foreign exchange contracts Assets 2,496 148 Liabilities 1,550 2,496 1,402 The fair value of currency derivatives that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges amounting to a net asset of $2,496,000 2011: net liability of $1,402,000 has been deferred in equity.
Net amounts of $49,000 2011: $4,020,000: 2010: $1,231,000: and $991,000 2011: $165,000: 2010: $85,000: respectively have been transferred to operating expenses in the income statement and fixed assets in respect of contracts maturing in the period.
Financialassets liabilities Carried at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss FVTPL 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 $000 $000 Forward foreign exchange contracts 206 35 Further details of derivative financial instruments are given in note 36.
Deferred Tax The following are the major deferred tax assets and  by the Group and movements thereon during the period and prior reporting period: Tax Other shortProperty, losses term plant and Share-based and R&D Hedging temporary equipment payment Intangibles credits differences differences Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 At 31 December 2010 903 1,764 8,088 33,230 304 611 28,116 Credit charge to income 8,229 528 5,990 52,403 25,393 91,487 Charge credit to equity 645 162 483 Credit to other comprehensive income 653 653 Acquisition of subsidiary 24 28,506 27,680 1,380 578 Effect of change in tax rate equity 37 114 11 66 Effect of change in tax rate income 462 30 702 2,065 48 1,843 At 30 December 2011 8,694 658 29,902 111,296 360 27,336 118,442 Charge credit to income 264 1,673 6,055 34,918 4,916 32,370 Credit to equity 573 436 1,009 Charge to other comprehensive income 957 957 Effect of change in tax rate equity 35 30 5 Effect of change in tax rate income 683 155 2,964 5,591 1,648 1,817 At 28 December 2012 7,747 2,714 20,883 71,223 567 24,068 84,302 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilitieshave been offset where they relate to the same taxation authority and net settlement and offset is permitted.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 $000 $000 Deferred tax assets 89,193 118,442 Deferred tax liabilities 4,891 84,302 118,442 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of $539,850,605 2011: $551,303,822 and unused tax credits of $33,945,792 2011: $54,549,718 available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of $220,215,473 2011: $366,179,161 of the tax losses and $8,491,641 of tax credits 2011:$nil.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining unused tax losses of $319,635,132 2011: $185,124,661 and unused tax credits of $25,454,151 2011: $54,549,718 due to either a history of tax losses or it is not considered probable that there will be sufficient future taxable profits to realise the benefit of deferred tax assets within certain subsidiary entities.
Included in unrecognised tax losses and unrecognised tax credits are tax losses of $72,278,400 2011: $21,179,182 and tax credits of $25,454,151 2011: $54,549,718 that will expire in 5-19 years.
Other losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date, no deferred tax liability has been recognised on temporary differences of $31,784,663 2011: $31,955,166 relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences at 28 December 2012 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The recognition of the deferred tax asset is based on managements assessment of historic profitability, forecasted operating results based upon approved business plans and a review of the tax planning opportunities.
Based on this, management concluded that there is convincing evidence for the recognition of deferred tax assets in excess of the deferred tax liability by $21,318,597, in entities that have suffered a loss in the current or preceding periods.
Obligations Under Finance Leases Minimum lease payments Present value of minimum lease payments 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 $000 $000 $000 $000 Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 1,393 16 1,393 16 In the second to fifth years inclusive 170 143 170 143 1,563 159 1,563 159 Less: future finance charges Present value of lease 1,563 159 1,563 159 Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 1,393 16 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 170 143 It is the Groups policy to lease certain of its equipment under finance leases and purchase certain software licences under agreements containing deferred payment terms.
The average lease term is 3.0 years 2011: 3.0 years.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date: all of the agreements containing deferred payment terms are interest free.
For the period ended 28 December 2012, the average effective borrowing rate was 0% 2011: 0%.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
Lease obligations with a present value of $1,226,000 2011: $123,000 are denominated in Sterling.
All other obligations are denominated in either Japanese Yen or US Dollars.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors right over the leased assets.
Other FinancialLiabilities Trade and Other Payables 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 $000 $000 Trade creditors 65,911 74,023 Other taxation and social security 7,007 2,489 Other payables 1,693 937 Inventory accruals 12,948 9,036 Other accruals and deferred income 176,064 143,726 263,623 230,211 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 Analysed as: $000 $000 Amounts due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 227,777 180,621 Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 35,846 49,590 263,623 230,211 Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 44 days 2011: 48 days.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
For most suppliers, no interest is charged on trade payables.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit time-frame.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements 27.
Provisions Returns and Onerous lease warranty Litigation Restructuring provision provision provision provision Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 At 31 December 2010 3,090 3,995 7,085 Additional provision in the period 72 3,219 21,683 24,974 Unwinding of discount 252 252 On acquisition of subsidiary 1,337 11,986 10,951 24,274 Utilised in period 1,533 2,674 686 20,271 25,164 At 30 December 2011 3,218 4,540 11,300 12,363 31,421 Additional provision in the period 3,656 3,552 8,000 1,876 17,084 Unwinding of discount 255 255 Released in the period 1,103 1,103 Utilised in period 1,393 2,340 9,412 13,375 26,520 At 28 December 2012 4,633 5,752 9,888 864 21,137 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 $000 $000 Amounts included within current liabilities 16,742 29,495 Amounts included within non-current liabilities 4,395 1,926 21,137 31,421 Onerous Lease Provision The Group has provided for the discounted anticipated costs of satisfying the terms of any onerous leases, less any anticipated income from subletting the buildings.
It is anticipated that the provisions will be used over the remaining lease terms.
Discount rates have been applied with reference to the rates on government bonds, with maturities corresponding to the remaining lease terms, which prevail in the jurisdiction of the lease.
Returns and Warranty Provision The Group provides for the anticipated costs associated with contractual liabilitiesunder standard warranty terms.
It is anticipated that the provision will be utilised within one year see note 3.
Litigation Provision Through the acquisition of Zoran Corporation, the group assumed the obligation to meet any liabilitiesthat may arise as a consequence of continuing SEC investigations of former executives of Microtune Inc. a subsidiary undertaking.
The investigations were still ongoing at the balance sheet date and it is uncertain when the provision will be utilised.
Restructuring Provision A restructuring programme was implemented in the prior period, following the acquisition of Zoran Corporation.
In December 2011, a decision was taken to discontinue investment in the digital television and silicon tuners business lines which had been acquired with Zoran and a further restructuring programme commenced.
As at 30 December 2011, approximately 30% of the 800 affected employees had left the Groups employment and a further 20% left on 31 December 2011.
The remainder of the affected employees had left the Groups employment during the period ended 28 December 2012, however there are further anticipated costs that have yet to be utilised.
Called-up Share Capital Company Authorised Share Capital 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 000 000 350,000,000 30 December 2011: 350,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 0.001 each equity 350 350 Allotted, Called-up and Fully Paid: 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 $000 $000 181,896,339 30 December 2011: 215,667,851 Ordinary Shares of 0.001 each equity 317 372 Changes to Share Capital: Equity Shares: 5,383,876 Ordinary Shares were issued from employee option exercises between 31 December 2011 and 28 December 2012.
9,925,000 ordinary shares were issued on 5 October 2012 and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
These shares represented an equity investment on the part of Samsung, which was completed on the same date as the disposal of the Groups handset connectivity and location development operations, also to Samsung.
On 30 November 2012, 49,080,388 ordinary shares including ordinary shares represented by ADSs were accepted for purchase by J. P. Morgan Cazenove.
Under the terms of the tender offer, on 30 November 2012, CSR plc repurchased all 49,080,388 ordinary 112 113 www.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued shares from J. P. Morgan Cazenove.
CSR plc cancelled 49,080,388 ordinary shares on 30 November 2012.
The consideration for the cancelled shares was $284,277,959 at a premium of $284,198,993.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carries no right to fixed income.
2 These options or awards have vesting conditions based on EPS growth over the vesting period.
3 These options have been issued as part of the Companys SAYE scheme.
4 These options have vesting conditions based on the growth of the Companys share price over the vesting period.
5 The obligation for these options was assumed as a result of the acquisition of Zoran Corporation.
Outstanding share options for non-European employees of Zoran Corporation were converted to options to acquire American depositary shares of CSR or CSR ADSs and outstanding Restricted Stock Units were converted to CSR Contingent Share Awards that can be settled in CSR ADSs.
Each CSR ADS represents four CSR ordinary shares.
6 These awards have been issued as part of the Companys Executive Incentive Plan.
Exercise period: Vested options and share awards are exercisable within ten years from the grant date, SAYE options are exercisable within 6 months of the vesting date.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Reserves Employee Share - Share Capital Benefit based premium redemption Merger Trust Hedging payment Tax Treasury Retained account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve shares earnings Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 At31 December 2010 368,615 950 61,574 39,064 1,123 58,038 41,641 37,487 318,852 774,242 Share issues net of share issue costs 104,847 104,847 Shares issued from Employee Benefit Trust Reserve 5,093 4,134 959 Credit to equity for equity-settled sharebased payments 13,583 13,583 Credit to equity for equity-settled sharebased payments arising on acquisition 16,576 16,576 Purchase of Treasury Shares 47,173 47,173 Effective rate adjustment 66 66 Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions 645 645 Gain on cash flow hedges 1,661 1,661 Deferred tax on hedging reserve 653 653 Transferred to income statement in respect of cash flow hedges 4,184 4,184 Current tax benefit taken directly to equity on share option gains 162 162 Credit to equity on recognition of losses 162 162 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension deficit 435 435 Profit for the period 33,866 33,866 Equity dividends issued to shareholders 16,349 16,349 At30 December 2011 473,462 950 61,574 33,971 1,400 88,197 41,583 84,660 331,800 877,535 Share issues net of share issue costs 48,642 48,642 Repurchase and cancellationof ordinary shares under tender offer net of costs 79 284,278 284,199 Share issue costs 1,550 1,839 289 Shares issued from Employee Benefit Trust Reserve 14,808 13,158 1,650 Shares issued from Treasury 7,203 3,268 3,935 Purchase of Treasury Shares 9,472 9,472 Credit to equity for equity-settled sharebased payments 24,480 24,480 Gain on cash flow hedges 4,935 4,935 Deferred tax on hedging reserve 957 957 Transferred to income statement in respect of cash flow hedges 1,040 1,040 Effective rate adjustment 5 5 Credit to equity on recognition of losses 436 436 Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions 573 573 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension deficit 919 919 Scheme assets above the threshold 656 656 Profit for the period 51,233 51,233 Equity dividends issued to shareholders 21,265 21,265 At28 December 2012 523,654 1,029 61,574 19,163 2,495 112,677 41,630 86,929 57,650 694,617 A tax reserve has been included to show movements in equity caused by tax adjustments reflecting movements in tax not recorded in the income statement.
The share premium account, capital redemption reserve and hedging reserve are not distributable.
The merger reserve arose on the combination of CSR plc and Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited and is not distributable.
The Employee Benefit Trust Reserve represents the cost of shares in CSR plc purchased in the market and held by the CSR plc Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy options under the Groups share option schemes.
Between 18 March 2008 and 25 March 2008, the CSR Employee Benefit Trust the Trust purchased 3,222,813 ordinary shares at prices between 3.37 and 3.03.
1,556,014 ordinary shares were issued from the Employee Benefit Trust in 2012 to satisfy employee option exercises 2011: 729,031 ordinary shares.
The shares acquired by the Trust do not represent treasury shares for the purposes of the Companies Act and therefore remain as issued share capital.
For accounting purposes, the treatment of the shares acquired by the Trust is different.
In preparing the consolidated Group accounts, the shares held by the Trust are treated as a deduction in shareholders equity.
At 28 December 2012, the Group had purchased 17,391,884 shares which are held in Treasury at a cost of $94.1 million.
1,336,885 ordinary shares were issued from Treasury in 2012 to satisfy employee option exercises 2011: nil.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements 30.
Notes to Cash Flow Statement 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 $000 $000 $000 Net profit for the period 51,233 33,866 16,626 Adjustments for: Investment income 1,161 1,627 812 Finance costs 7,106 5,046 904 Other gains and losses 14 320 640 Income tax charge credit 50,749 85,330 22,331 Operating profit loss 107,913 48,365 6,253 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16,171 18,371 20,091 Amortisation of intangible assets 30,485 26,352 18,054 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 916 62 279 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 24 135 Share related charges 24,480 13,583 9,592 Impairment of assets 2,300 2,276 fide-recognition of contingent consideration 1,620 Profit on disposal of development operations 127,178 Decrease increase in provisions 13,284 342 2,227 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 41,803 10,341 44,125 Decrease increase in inventories 32,497 27,788 12,961 Decrease increase in receivables 6,635 27,322 6,678 Decrease increase in payables 2,998 49,298 46,093 Cash generated by operations 77,937 16,153 70,579 Foreign taxes paid 5,645 3,063 1,127 Corporation taxes received 4,733 8,691 Grant income received 131 Interest paid 3,097 450 662 R&D tax credit received 295 Net cash from operating activities 73,928 12,640 77,907 Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single class of asset on the face of the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and other short term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
The acquisition of Zoran Corporation in the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 see note 39 was a significant non cash transaction in the period as the consideration for the transaction was partly satisfied through the issuance of additional shares.
Contingent Liabilities Intellectualproperty litigation is commonplace in our industry and poses risks and uncertainties that may materially and adversely affect or disrupt our business, customer relationships, expenses or results of operations.
We are regularly involved in pending and threatened litigation in the course of our business and industry, which litigation may be inherently uncertain.
With respect to both existing and future litigation, we will continue vigorously to defend ourselves and or take other steps as we believe are in the overall interests of CSR and its shareholders.
The Company and its subsidiaries are currently involved in a number of legal proceedings as disclosed below.
Other than these the Company and its subsidiaries are not involved in any legal or arbitration proceedings which may have, or have had in the 12 months preceding the date of this report, a significant effect on the financial statements.
Further, other than as disclosed below, due to inherent uncertainties, no accurate qualification of any cost, or timing of such cost, which may arise from any of the legal proceedings outlined below can be made.
As of 19 October 2012, all lawsuits involving Bandspeed have been settled in their entirety as to CSR, including with respect to customers use of CSR products.
After the year end, on 31 December 2012, the Group signed a full and final settlement in respect of litigation with MOSAID Technologies Incorporated.
The $7.5 million cost of this settlement was included within accruals in the financial statements and was fully paid in January 2013.
In 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. filed three investigations in the International Trade Commission in which it named Zoran or its customers as respondents, Inv.
In each ITC investigation, Freescale accused Zorans products of infringing US Patent No.
This patent expires on 3 November 2013.
Freescale failed to prevail in each of the three investigations and the ITC did not find any violation of the relevant statute, Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930.
As parallel proceedings to its three ITC investigations, Freescale filed three district court cases of which one remains in the US District Court for the Western District of Texas Western District of Texas I and involves US Patent No.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued On 10 July 2012, Freescale filed an amended complaint against CSR in the US District Court for the Western District of Texas Case No.
1:12-CV-604: Western District of Texas II, alleging infringement of four US patents.
Western District of Texas I has been consolidated with Western District of Texas II and a trial date has not been scheduled.
On 21 May 2012, CSR filed a patent infringement complaint against Freescale in the US District Court for the Northern District of California Case No.
CSR is asserting four US patents against Freescale in this case.
A trial date has not been scheduled.
On 12 September 2012, Freescale filed a complaint against CSR in New York state court requesting a declaratory judgment disputing the termination of a decade old license agreement.
A number of patent portfolio non-practising entities have filed patent infringement cases against CSR and or Zoran.
These cases are in various stages and include many other defendants.
Plaintiffs in these cases, the filing dates of their respective complaints all filed in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Texas except HSM Portfolio Technology Propertys lawsuit against Zoran in the US District Court for Delaware and the scheduled trial dates are as follows: Advanced Processor Technologies Filed 26 January 2011: Trial scheduled for Q3 2013 : Azure Networks and Tri-County Excelsior Foundation Filed 22 March 2011: Trial scheduled for Q4 2013 : HSM Portfolio and Technology Property Filed 1 September 2011: Trial scheduled for Q1 2015.
No provision has been recorded for any of the cases above as cash outflow has not been deemed probable at the balance sheet date.
Operating Lease Arrangements The group as a lessee 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 $000 $000 $000 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in the income statement for the year 32,803 27,219 23,591 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 $000 $000 $000 Within one year 29,412 33,352 24,483 In the second to fifth years inclusive 38,269 69,639 31,852 After five years 5,723 6,729 4,713 73,404 109,720 61,048 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties, office equipment and software licences.
Leases are negotiated for an average term of 3.68 years 2011: 3.35 years, 2010: 3.35 years and rentals are fixed for an average of 3.20 years 2011: 2.85 years, 2010: 3.11 years.
The group as a lessor Certain of the groups office properties under operating lease have been sub-let to third party tenants.
Rental income has been recognised from these sub-leases in the income statement as follows: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 $000 $000 $000 Lease income from operating leases recognised in the income statement for the year 1,099 796 208 At the balance sheet date, the group had contracted with tenants for the following future minimum lease payments: 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 $000 $000 $000 In the second to fifth years inclusive 3,560 1,495 471 5,572 2,367 642 33.
Integration and Restructuring During 2012 the Group continued with the restructuring programmes that were announced in 2011 following the Zoran acquisition and discontinued investment in DTV and silicon tuners.
Integration and restructuring costs of approximately $25.2 million were incurred during the period ended 28 December 2012, of which the main components were severance charges, onerous leases, and consultancy and legal costs.
Through this expenditure the Group continued to reduce its ongoing cost base through reducing headcount and office locations, optimising legal entity structures, aligning employee benefits across the group, and amalgamating CSR and Zoran processes and IT systems.
An additional $2.3 million of restructuring charges was recorded as a result of the impairment of licences following the disposal of handset development operations to Samsung.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements In addition, the Group charged $12.4 million to the restructuring provisions set up in the prior year as the majority of employees affected by these programmes left the Group during the period ending 28 December 2012 see note 27.
A provision of $0.9 million remains and it is expected that this will be fully utilised by the end of 2013.
In 2011, a charge of $33.7 million was recorded in relation to integration and restructuring programmes.
The main components were $21.7 million of severance costs, $9.6 million of consultancy and legal costs and $1.9 million of fixed asset impairments.
At 30 December 2011 a provision of $12.4 million in respect of these severance payments was held see note 27.
In 2010, a decision was taken to close the NordNav Technologies AB office in Sweden, which lead to approximately 10 employees leaving the Group.
A charge of $1.1 million was recorded in relation to the closure, most of which related to severance costs.
At 31 December 2010, $1.1 million was accrued and paid during 2011.
Share Based Payments Equity-settled share option schemes CSR plc has grants and awards in the following Share Schemes which result in charges to the Consolidated Income Statement: Global Share Option Scheme The Company has a share option scheme for all employees of the Group, under which share options were issued prior to flotation in February 2004, at a price based on the most recent private funding round.
These options had a vesting period of five years and if the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options lapse.
Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
No grants have been made under this scheme since flotation.
Company Share Option Plan CSOP The Company introduced a new scheme at flotation called the CSR plc Share Option Plan.
Options granted under this plan have a three year vesting period and lapse on the tenth anniversary of the grant date, unless otherwise indicated below.
Options are generally forfeited on cessation of employment.
The following grants have been made under the scheme: Flotation Grant On the Companys flotation in February 2004, the Company issued share options to all employees, at a price based on the share price on the day of flotation.
Performance Grants On the Companys flotation in February 2004, and in May 2005, May 2006, May 2007, June 2008 and certain other dates relating to employees joining the Company issued share options at a price based on the average share price over the preceding three days.
For options granted between 2004 and 2008, vesting is dependent upon meeting certain EPS based performance conditions.
With the decision to extend the grant of share awards with accompanying performance conditions to other employees, the Committee had decided that for grants from 2009 onwards, the performance condition for vesting would be changed to Total Shareholder Return TSR.
The vesting of the options is subject to the Group satisfying a performance condition based on the Total Shareholder Return of the Companys shares when compared to a group of companies selected at the time an award is first granted.
In order for the shares to vest, the Group must have met or exceeded certain TSR thresholds when compared with the TSR performance of the group of other companies.
For grants from 2011 onwards, the Committee decided that a new performance condition, Absolute Total Shareholder Return ATSR, be introduced.
The vesting of the options is also subject to the Group satisfying a performance condition, based on the Absolute Total Shareholder Return of the Companys shares, when compared to the average share price of the Company for the three months prior to the date that an award is first granted.
In order for the shares to vest, the Group must have met or exceeded certain ATSR thresholds when compared to the Companys average share price for the three months prior to the date the award is first granted.
Starter Grants The Company grants options to new starters to assist in recruitment.
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average share price on the three days preceding the grant date.
The vesting period of the options is over a period of five years with 40% vesting after two years and 5% vesting each quarter thereafter.
The Company has also issued starter grants to senior employees that vest after three years.
215,009 starter grants with these characteristics were issued in the current period 2011: 101,540 starter grants: 2010: no grants.
CSR Share Award Plan In May 2005, the Company introduced the CSR plc Share Award Plan, which allows for options to be granted for exercise at a future date at a price equivalent to the nominal value of the Companys shares of 0.001.
The following awards have been made: Retention Awards The Company issues certain employees with rights to purchase shares at nominal value 0.001 as a method of staff retention.
The vesting period of these share awards is either two or three years.
If the share awards remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the awards lapse.
Awards are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Performance Awards The Company issues certain employees with rights to purchase shares at nominal value 0.001 as a method of staff incentivisation.
The vesting period of these share awards is three years.
Grants between 2005 and 2008 were subject to i the satisfaction of a TSR condition relative to a comparator group of companies : and ii an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Group.
These awards have all lapsed.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued From 2009 onwards, the Company issued certain employees with rights to purchase shares at nominal value.
The vesting period of these grants is three years and vesting is dependent upon meeting certain EPS based performance conditions.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options lapse.
Starter Awards The Company grants rights to new starters to purchase shares at nominal value 0.001 to assist recruitment.
The vesting period of these awards is two years.
SAYESchemes The Company operates a SAYE scheme, whereby UK employees are allowed to subscribe to a monthly savings amount for a period of three years: at the end of the three year period, the employee is allowed to either receive their saved amount plus interest or purchase shares in the Company at a price based on the average share price on the three days prior to commencement of the SAYE scheme, discounted by 20%.
This scheme is open to all employees subject to Inland Revenue approved limits on total investment, and invitations are issued at regular intervals.
Employees have a period of six months following the conclusion of the scheme to exercise their option to purchase shares.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP and Global Share Purchase Plan GSPP The Company introduced the GSPP and amended and restated the ESPP in August 2012 following the approval of shareholders at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
These plans allow eligible employees to purchase shares in the Company at a 15% discount to the lower of the share prices on the first day of an offering period typically a two year period or at the end of a savings period there are typically two one year savings period in each offering period.
The purchase of shares is funded by payroll deductions made from net pay over a savings period.
There is a limit on the aggregate payroll deductions per participant per savings period of $15,000.
Executive Incentive Plan EIP The Company introduced this plan for its executive directors and senior management team following the approval of shareholders at the General Meeting in August 2011.
The plan has two elements, element A and element B, both of which have a maximum payout of 125% of the participants salary.
The percentage of the payout is determined according to the Groups satisfaction of certain performance conditions and the participant achieving certain objectives.
Element A is settled in cash or shares executive directors are required to take payment in shares until they have satisfied their minimum shareholding requirement and is paid annually.
Element B is settled in shares following the end of the third year of the plan.
A maximum forfeiture of 50% will be applied in each of the second and third plan years if the Group does not meet certain performance conditions.
The share price at which shares are paid out at is the 30 day average share price for the period finishing on the end of the plan year.
This scheme vests over a period of 39 months.
SiRF Technology Holdings Inc. plans For purely historic purposes of settling pre-acquisition obligations of option and award exercise, the Company has assumed all the obligations of the former SiRF Technology Holdings Inc. under pre-existing plans utilised by SiRF which comprise the 1995 Stock Plan, the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, the TrueSpan 2004 Stock Incentive Plan and the Centrality 1999 Stock Plan.
The Company will not issue any options or awards under these plans going forward.
All contractual terms of the assumed options remain the same, except for the converted number of shares and exercise price which were based on an exchange ratio determined as part of the merger agreement.
Zoran Corporation plans Under the terms of the merger agreement, all outstanding RSUs and share options granted by Zoran were assumed by CSR and converted into RSUs and options exercisable for, at the election of CSR, either CSR ADSs or CSR ordinary shares.
All contractual terms of the assumed options remain the same, except for the converted number of shares or ADSs and exercise prices which were based on an exchange ratio determined as part of the merger agreement.
The plans utilized by Zoran comprise the 1993 Stock Option Plan, the 2000 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan, the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, the 2005 Outside Directors Equity Plan, the Oak Technology 1994 Stock Option Plan, the Oak Technology 1994 Outside Directors Stock Option Plan, the Oak Technology 2002 Stock Option Plan for Teralogic Group, the Microtune, Inc. 200 Stock Plan and 2010 Microtune, Inc. 2010 Stock Plan.
No options or awards will be granted under these plans going forward.
28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average Number of exercise Number of exercise Number of exercise share options price share options price share options price Outstanding at beginning of period 35,809,423 3.12 13,562,737 4.09 16,256,257 4.57 Granted during the period 10,437,960 1.06 6,459,394 1.22 3,387,428 1.63 Replacement options granted to Zoran employees on acquisition 22,106,662 4.54 Forfeited during the period 12,130,517 2.40 4,650,904 2.53 3,145,074 5.35 Exercised during the period 8,276,775 1.87 1,668,466 0.61 2,935,874 1.20 Outstanding at the end of the period 25,840,091 3.08 35,809,423 3.12 13,562,737 4.09 Exercisable at the end of the period 9,908,854 6.24 16,953,139 2.93 4,306,187 9.35 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 2.89 2011: 3.34: 2010: 4.08.
The options outstanding at 28 December 2012 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 5 years 2011: 6 years: 2010: 7 years.
In 2012, options were granted on 21 and 29 March, 1 May, 21 August and 25 October.
The aggregate estimated fair value of the options granted on those dates is $23,550,315.
The weighted average fair value of these options is $2.62.
In 2011, options were granted on 15 March, 1 May and 6 September.
The aggregate estimated fair value of the options granted on those dates is $19,355,000.
The weighted average fair value of these options is $2.99.
In 2010, options were granted on 15 March, 1 May, 13 May, 11 June and 3 September.
The aggregate estimated fair value of the options granted on those dates is $9,012,000.
The weighted average fair value of these options is $4.72.
The fair values of the share option and share award grants were based on the following inputs: SAYESchemes The inputs to the Black-Scholes model are as follows: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 Weighted average share price 2.23 3.74 4.30 Weighted average exercise price 2.01 3.05 3.91 Expected volatility 45% 52% 57% Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years Risk free rate 2.28% 2.56% 2.80% Expected dividends 3% 2% 0% Expected volatility was determined by calculatingthe historical volatility of the Groups share price over a three year period, equivalent to the vesting period of the options.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted based on managements best estimates, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Company Share Option Plan CSOP The inputs to the Black-Scholes model are as follows: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 Weighted average share price 2.46 3.36 2.12 3.77 2.98 4.65 Weighted average exercise price 2.48 3.37 2.14 3.76 2.99 4.84 Expected volatility 44% 45% 40% 53% 57% Expected life 3 years 3 years 34 years Risk free rate 2.13% 2.38% 2.47% 2.70% 2.30% 2.95% Expected dividends 1.9% 2.6% 2% 2.8% 0% Expected volatility was determined by calculatingthe historical volatility of the Groups share price over a time period equivalent to the expected term of the options.
The adjustments for the performance conditions are reflected in the proportion of options anticipated to vest.
For options issued in 2009 and 2010, the fair value was based upon Monte-Carlo simulation of the performance of the 37 comparator companies included in the TSR conditions of the award.
The Monte Carlo simulation incorporates a range of other assumptions based on the TSR comparator companies: those assumptions given above relate to the Group.
For options issued in 2011 and 2012, the fair value was based upon the Monte-Carlo simulation of the performance of the Companys share price against the ATSR conditions specified in the award, using the assumptions included above.
Expected volatility for each Company was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the individual Companys share price over the 3 years from the date of grant.
Retention Awardsand Starter Awards The fair value was based upon the share price on the date of grant.
Performance Awards For pre-2009 awards, the fair value was based upon Monte-Carlo simulation of the performance of the 38 comparator companies included in the TSR conditions of the award.
For awards issued from 2009 onwards, the fair value was based on the share price on the date of grant as the performance conditions were market based.
ESPPscheme The fair value of the ESPP is based on the maximum cash value that each participant is eligible to accrue under the scheme rules.
Share Option Charges The Group recognised total expenses of $24,480,000 2011: $13,583,000: 2010: $9,592,000: related to equitysettled sharebased payment transactions.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Cash-settled share-based payments The Group issues to certain employees cash-settled share awards that require the Group to pay the value of the share awards to the employee on the date of the exercise after a specified vesting period.
Fair value of the awards is determined using the market value of the awards at the balance sheet date.
Retirement Benefit Obligations a Defined contribution schemes The Group operates a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme for all qualifying employees.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group, in funds under the control of trustees.
The total cost recorded in the income statement of $8,109,000 2011: $7,304,000: 2010: $7,231,000 represents contributions payable to this scheme by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the plan.
As at 28 December 2012, contributions of $nil 30 December 2011: $nil due in respect of the current reporting period had not been paid over to the scheme.
b Defined benefit plan As a consequence of the Groups acquisition of Zoran on 31 August 2011, the Group has assumed the obligation for a defined benefit plan in Zoran Microelectronics Limited.
Under Israeli law, there is a requirement to make severance payments to all employees who leave a company involuntarily.
There is no such requirement for those employees who leave the company voluntarily.
Severance payments are calculated based on varying factors, namely the length of employee service and salary and are funded entirely by individual investment funds held in the name of the employee by the Group.
The Group does not hold a central fund to finance this obligation.
Where there are insufficientfunds in these investment funds to meet involuntary severance obligations, there is a legal obligation for the Company to finance this shortfall.
This therefore meets the definition of a post employment benefit and more specifically a defined benefit plan, under IAS 19.
The obligation for the company to make up the shortfall in severance payments of this nature is restricted to employees who joined the Company prior to 2007.
Though there is no obligation for the Company to make severance payments for employees leaving voluntarily, the assets accumulated in the employees fund are returned to the employee when leaving the Company.
Severance payments to employees who joined subsequent to 2007, have been accounted for as a defined contribution employment plan The valuation of the deficit in the balance sheet is based on the most recent actuarial valuation of the Plan as updated to take account of the market value of the assets and the present value of the liabilitiesof the Plan at 28 December 2012.
The financial assumptions used to calculate plan liabilitiesand plan assets under IAS 19 are: 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 Salary increase p. a.
4.60% 5.00% Expected return on assets p. a.
1.05% 1.05% Normal retirement age Men 67 years 67 years Women 64 years 64 years The discount rate and expected return on assets assumptions are based on 10 year Israeli government bond yields.
The analysis of movement in the deficit in the scheme for the year is: $000 Deficit at 31 December 2010 Acquisition 81 Contributions paid 491 Benefits paid 190 Current service cost 282 Actuarial losses 435 Deficit at 30 December 2011 117 Expected return on plan assets net of interest cost 34 Contributions paid 1,442 Benefits paid 936 Current service cost 762 Assets above the threshold 656 Actuarial losses 919 Deficit at 28 December 2012 42 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements The reconciliation of plan assets is as follows: $000 Market value at 31 December 2010 Acquisition 13,437 Benefit payments 839 Company contributions 491 Expected return on assets 274 Actuarial losses 1,016 Market value at 30 December 2011 12,347 Benefit payments 6,959 Company contributions 1,442 Expected return on assets 493 Plan assets above surplus 656 Actuarial gains 2,341 Market value at 28 December 2012 9,008 The reconciliation of plan liabilitiesduring the year is as follows: $000 Plan liabilitiesat 31 December 2010 Acquisition 13,518 Current service cost 282 Interest cost 274 Benefits paid 1,029 Actuarial gains 581 Plan liabilitiesat 30 December 2011 12,464 Current service cost 762 Interest cost 459 Benefits paid 7,895 Actuarial losses 3,260 Plan liabilitiesat 28 December 2012 9,050 The expected return on the plan assets is evaluated in accordance with the type of investment fund held in the name of employees of the Groups Israeli subsidiary Zoran Microelectronics Limited, as opposed to the structure of assets held within the investment funds.
This approach has been adopted in the absence of a central fund.
An analysis demonstrating the fair value of the portfolio of investments in the name of employees is provided below: 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 $000 % $000 % Old Pension Plan 631 7 1,111 9 New Pension Plan 2,702 30 3,581 29 Provident Funds Manager Insurance before 2004 5,135 57 6,915 56 Provident Funds Manager Insurance after 2004 450 5 617 5 Provident Funds Kuput Gemel 90 1 123 1 9,008 100 12,347 100 The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid to the scheme during the current financial year is $1.8 million 2011:$2.1 million.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The following is analysis of the charges to profit or loss and other comprehensive income: 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 Income statement $000 $000 Analysis of amounts chargeable to operating profit loss : Current service cost 762 282 Analysis of amounts charged credited to other finance income and costs: Interest on Plan liabilities 459 274 Expected return on assets in the Plan 493 274 Total chargeable to the income statement before deduction of tax 728 282 Analysis of amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Actuarial losses 919 435 Pension scheme assets above the threshold 656 Total actuarial loss recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 1,575 435 Cumulative actuarial loss recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2,010 435 36.
FinancialInstruments Financial RiskManagement The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Credit risk Market risk Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Groups management of capital.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Groups Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
Capital RiskManagement The Groups policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
CSR intends to reinvest its cash balances in the business either through higher levels of investment in working capital and fixed assets or through further M&A activity to support the long-term ambitions of the Group.
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents, treasury deposits and equity attributable to the equity holders of CSR plc, comprising issued share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 28 and 29.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
The Group has a total of $333.3 million of treasury deposits and cash and cash equivalents as at 28 December 2012 30 December 2011: $277.8 million Significant Accounting Policies Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 $000 $000 Financialassets Available for sale 3,719 3,610 Loans and receivables including cash and cash equivalents and treasury deposits 460,659 365,922 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 2,496 148 Fair value through profit and loss FVTPL 4,333 15,938 471,207 385,618 Financialliabilities Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 1,550 Amortised cost 209,695 212,183 Fair value through profit and loss FVTPL 35 209,695 213,768 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements Market Risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign currency exchange rates and interest rate risk will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
Market risk exposures are measured using sensitivity analysis.
Foreign Currency RiskManagement Substantially all of the Groups sales and costs of sales are denominated in US dollars, the functional currency of all the entities within the Group.
A substantial proportion of the Groups fixed costs are denominated in Sterling and a significant proportion of the remainder is non-USD denominated.
This exposure to different currencies may result in gains or losses with respect to movements in foreign exchange rates and the impact of such fluctuations could be material.
Accordingly, the Group enters into hedging transactions pursuant to which it purchases Sterling under forward purchase contracts in order to cover the majority of its Sterling exposure.
The carrying amounts of the Groups Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilitiesat the reporting date are as follows: Liabilities Assets 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 000 000 000 000 GBP sterling 6,615 6,740 1,799 5,675 The following significant exchange rates applied during the period: Weighted averageforward contractrate contractsmaturing in the period Period end spot rate 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 $000 $000 $000 $000 GBP: USD 1.5731 1.5428 1.6157 1.5535 Foreign Currency Sensitivity Analysis A 10 percent strengthening of the US dollar against GBP sterling would have decreased equity and profit or increased equity and profit by the amounts shown below as at the reporting date shown.
In managements opinion, this is a reasonably possible change given current market conditions.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates and other foreign currencies, remain constant.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2011.
Profit or Equity loss 28 December 2012 $000 $000 GBP 6,881 316 Profit or Equity loss 30 December 2011 $000 $000 GBP 7,834 2,693 A 10 percent weakening of the US dollar against GBP sterling would have had the equal but opposite effect, on the basis that all the other variables remain constant.
The movement in loss for the period is mainly attributable to the Groups exposure to exchange movements in sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities.
The movement in equity is mainly as a result of the changes in fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Forward Foreign Exchange Contracts The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to occur: Carrying Expected 3 months More than Cash flow hedges amount cash flows or less 3-6 months 6-12 months one year 28 December 2012 Forward foreign exchange contracts $000 64,000 15,500 15,000 33,500 Forward foreign exchange contracts 000 100,641 24,107 23,490 53,044 Fair value $000 2,702 926 732 1,044 Average exchange rate 1.5725 1.5553 1.566 1.5834 30 December 2011 Forward foreign exchange contracts $000 107,631 24,049 24,708 48,831 10,043 Forward foreign exchange contracts 000 68,500 15,500 15,500 31,000 6,500 Fair value $000 1,437 20 683 795 21 Average exchange rate 1.5741 1.5521 1.5935 1.5753 1.5450 The Directors consider the periods in which the cash flows associated with the derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to occur approximate the periods when the cash flows associated with those cash flows are likely to impact profit or loss.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Interest Rate RiskManagement The Group has no significant direct exposure to fluctuations in interest rates other than those on interest-bearing cash balances.
The majority of cash balances are held at fixed rates of interest and the effective rate of interest on those cash balances in the period was 0.27% 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011: 0.16%: 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010 : 0.22%.
Credit risk Credit Risk Management Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults.
The Group only transacts with entities that are rated the equivalent of investment grade and above for Treasury management purposes.
This information is supplied by independent rating agencies where available and if not available, the Group uses other publicly available financial information and its own trading records to rate its major customers.
The Groups exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties are continuously monitored and credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
For cash and cash equivalents and treasury deposits, the Company only transacts with entities that are equivalent to investment grade and above.
Disclosures related to the credit risk associated with trade receivables are in note 22.
Liquidity risk Liquidity Risk Management The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group has no significant borrowings from third parties and therefore liquidity risk is not considered a significant risk at this time.
The table below details the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilitieswith agreed repayment periods.
The tables have been prepared based on undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilitiesbased on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
Weighted average effective Less than More than interest rate one month 1-2 months 2-3 months 3-6 months 6 months Total 28 December 2012 % $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Obligations under finance leases 340 167 1,056 1,563 Litigation accrual undiscounted 3,125 3,125 34,375 40,625 Other payables 1,762 4,766 775 14,463 21,766 Onerous lease provision undiscounted 87 83 105 282 5,103 5,660 4,974 423 5,038 4,182 54,997 69,614 Weighted average effective Less than More than interest rate one month 1-2 months 2-3 months 3-6 months 6 months Total 30 December 2011 % $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Obligations under finance leases 159 159 Litigation accrual undiscounted 3,125 3,125 46,875 53,125 Other payables 2,080 2,319 775 16,969 22,143 Onerous lease provision undiscounted 10 10 10 29 3,385 3,444 5,215 10 2,329 3,929 67,388 78,871 Fair Value of FinancialInstruments The fair values of financial assets and liabilitiesare determined as follows: Trade receivables and trade and other payables: The carrying amount of these short-term financial instruments approximates their fair value.
Derivatives: The fair value is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using an appropriate discount rate.
The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilitiesin the financial statements approximates their fair values.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements The following table provides an analysis of the financial assets, specifically money market funds and marketable debt instruments that are measured on a recurring basis, subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include significant inputs for the asset and liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Quoted prices in Active Markets Significant Other Significant for Identical Observable Unobservable 28 December 2012 Assets Inputs Inputs Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $000 $000 $000 $000 Financial assets at FVTPL United States government fixed income debt securities 1 4,127 4,127 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 2,496 2,496 Fair value through profit and loss FVTPL 206 206 Available for sale financial assets Shares in unquoted equity securities 3,719 3,719 Quoted prices in Active Markets Significant Other Significant for Identical Observable Unobservable 30 December 2011 Assets Inputs Inputs Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $000 $000 $000 $000 Financial assets at FVTPL United States government fixed income debt securities 1 15,938 15,938 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 148 148 Available for sale financial assets Shares in unquoted equity securities 3,610 3,610 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 1,550 1,550 Fair value through profit and loss FVTPL 35 35 1 Included within Treasury deposits within the consolidated balance sheet.
The fair value of the unquoted equity shares can be determined as management monitors the ongoing investments by oversight involvement in the investees and due to the recent nature of the purchase, by either the Group or other equity holders of the investees.
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets: Available for sale Unquoted equities $000 Balance at 31 December 2010 1,000 Total gains and losses: Purchases 2,610 Balance at 30 December 2011 3,610 Total gains and losses: Purchases 109 Balance at 28 December 2012 3,719 37.
Related Party Transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Remuneration of keymanagement personnel The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 $000 $000 $000 Short-term employee benefits 5,004 6,558 4,582 Post-employment benefits 173 182 228 Share-based payment 3,721 765 1,398 8,898 7,505 6,208 126 127 www.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued During 2011, Joep van Beurden CEO was appointed Chairman of the Global Semiconductor Alliance GSA.
Prior to this, Joep had held the position of Vice Chairman of this organisation since 2009.
CSR plc has paid membership fees of $25,000 to the GSA during the course of 2012 2011: $25,000, sponsorship fees of $22,100 2011: $17,100 and conference fees of $2,985 2011: $nil.
Prior to the acquisition of Zoran Corporation, Levy Gerzberg held an interest in Zoran common stock and in options to acquire Zoran common stock pursuant to option plans operated by Zoran and which were subsequently assumed by Zoran.
With effect from completion on 31 August 2011, these interests were converted into 120,737 shares and 1,015,318 options to acquire CSR ADSs.
Dividends totalling $143,287 2011: $237,671 were paid in the year in respect of ordinary shares held by the Companys directors.
Disposal of Development Operations On 17 July 2012, the Group entered into a conditional binding agreement with Samsung, for the transfer of development operations in handset connectivity and location, including 311 people, together with certain rights over the Groups technology in these areas.
None of the revenues associated with the Groups existing handset products were transferred as part of the transaction.
This transaction was completed on 4 October 2012.
The Consideration is subject to adjustment by up to US$10 million in certain circumstances relating to the achievement of contractual milestones.
At the balance sheet date the fair value of the probabilities of these possible circumstances and their outcomes were assessed and deemed to be less than $100,000.
The disposal was effected so that the Group could concentrate investment and resources on its five high growth markets of Voice & Music, Automotive Infotainment, Indoors Location, Imaging and Bluetooth Smart, accelerate its higher margin platform strategy and improve the Groups overall market position.
The net assets transferred on 4 October 2012 are as follows: $000 Attributable goodwill 151,477 Financialassets 2,877 Property, plant and equipment 3,103 Intangible assets 3,413 Financialliabilities 1,713 Net assets disposed 159,157 1 Additional  on disposal 23,665 Gain on disposal of development operations in handset connectivity and handset location 127,178 Total consideration 310,000 Purchase price: Cash and cash equivalents 272,900 Cash held in an escrow account 31,000 Witholding tax receivable 6,100 310,000 Net cash inflow arising on disposal: Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 272,900 Disposed cash and cash equivalents 1,577 Directly attributable costs 13,122 258,201 1 Additional liabilities recognised on disposal primarily consists of additional employee compensation, incurred in conjunction with the transfer of 311 employees to Samsung, and professional fees incurred for the Samsung Transaction The gain on the disposal of these development operations in handset connectivity and location has been recognised within the Groups operating profit for the period ended 28 December 2012.
As part of the transaction, the Groups entire shareholding in Cambridge Silicon Radio Sarl was transferred to Samsung.
The gain recognised on this disposal was $8.5 million and this was recognised within the Groups operating profit, as part of the total gain on disposal of development operations in handset connectivity and location.
Prior to disposal the costs of these development operations have been disclosed in the Legacy operating segment.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Financial statements 39.
Acquisition of Subsidiary Zoran Corporation On 31 August 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Zoran Corporation Zoran, a semiconductor supplier of video and imaging technology for cameras, televisions, silicon tuners and printing, for a consideration of $440.5 million.
The acquisition of Zoran provides CSR with imaging technology, which will complement CSRs existing wireless connectivity, audio and location technologies and gives greater access to new markets which require location and wireless connectivity.
Each share of Zoran common stock was exchanged for 0.589 of a CSR plc ordinary share, par value 0.001 per share and a total cash payment of $316.4m.
The Group issued 29,774,144 shares in CSR plc as part of this consideration at a CSR plc share price of 2.215 and exchange rate of 1.6304 US dollars to GBP.
The acquisition note is shown below: Recognised amounts of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value $000 Financialassets 271,287 Inventory 62,833 Property, plant and equipment 12,451 Intangible assets 99,276 Financialliabilities 114,005 Net assets acquired 331,842 Allocation to goodwill 108,703 Total consideration 440,545 Purchase price: Cash 316,445 Fair value of shares issued 107,524 Fair value of share options exchanged 16,576 440,545 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition Cash consideration 316,445 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 192,583 Directly attributable costs 18,513 142,375 Cash and cash equivalents acquired totalled $192.6 million.
Treasury and investments of $30.6 million were also acquired, giving a total of $223.2 million of cash, cash equivalents, treasury deposits and investments acquired.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition is attributable to future income from new customer contracts, the acquired workforce and future technology that has yet to be designed or even conceived.
It is not anticipated that any of the goodwill will be deductible for income tax purposes.
The gross value of financial assets acquired includes receivables with a fair value of $32.1 million and a gross contractual value of $32.1 million.
The best estimate at the acquisition date of the contractual cash flows not to be collected is $0 million.
The amount of goodwill recognised on acquisition was revised to $108.7m 30 December 2011: $108.1m, due to a change in the fair value of assets acquired, amounting to $0.6m identified during 2012.
Prior period comparatives have not been restated because the amount is not material.
Attributable costs amount to $18.5 million and have been charged to SG&A and to the share premium account.
Zoran Corporation contributed $111.4 million to revenue and a profit of $20.3 million between the date of acquisition and 30 December 2011.
If the acquisition of Zoran Corporation had been completed on the first day of the accounting period, Group revenues for the 52 week period ended 30 December 2011 would have been $1,074.5 million and the Group loss would have been $50.0 million.
This does not reflect any synergistic benefits of the acquisition for the period prior to the acquisition.
APTLicensing Limited On 20 July 2010, CSR plc acquired 100% of the issued share capital of APT Licensing Limited APT, a leading ultra-high quality codec developer, for a consideration of $3.9 million.
The acquisition will enhance CSRs technicalcapability in audio codecs and strengthen the Groups presence in mobile and wireless audio streaming.
com Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The acquisition note is shown below: Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed $000 Financialassets 813 Property, plant and equipment 117 Intangible assets 2,500 Financialliabilities 2,760 670 Goodwill 3,200 Total consideration 3,870 Satisfied by: Cash 2,330 Contingent consideration arrangement 1,540 Total consideration transferred 3,870 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition Cash consideration 2,330 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 428 1,902 The fair value of the financial assets includes trade receivables with a fair value of $0.11 million and a gross contractual value of $0.14 million.
The best estimate, at the acquisition date of the contractual cash flows not to be collected is $0.03 million.
The goodwill of $3.2 million arising from the acquisition is attributable to future customer contracts, the development of future apt-X technology and the assembled APT workforce which are not recognisable as an asset.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The contingent consideration arrangement was dependent on the volume of shipments of APT products in the period from the acquisition date to 31 December 2011.
The potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the Group could be required to make under the contingent consideration arrangement is between $nil and $3.0 million and is payable on 31 December 2011.
The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement of $1.54 million was estimated on the basis of a probability weighted forecast of the number of units of APT products to be sold in the earn-out period, discounted at 3.4%.
Acquisition-related costs included within administrative expenses in the CSR plc consolidated income statement for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010 amounted to $0.4 million.
As a condition of the acquisition agreement, CSR re-paid $2.0 million of outstanding loans of APT on completion of the acquisition.
APT Licensing Limited contributed $0.2 million to revenue and a loss of $0.2 million to the Groups profit for the period between the date of the acquisition and the balance sheet date.
If the acquisition of APT Licensing Limited had been completed on the first day of the accounting period, Group revenues for the period ended 31 December 2010 would have been $801.0 million and Group profit would have been $15.3 million.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
