Other information  History and development CSR plc is the holding company of an international group of companies, the principal activities of which are the design and supply of integrated circuits silicon chips and multifunction platforms for a broad range of devices and applications that are used in a variety of electronic products, primarily for consumer markets.
CSR is domiciled in England and Wales, and its registered office and principal place of business is at Churchill House, Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge, CB4 0WZ.
CSR was established in Cambridge in April 1999 by an engineering and marketing team that previously worked at Cambridge Consultants Limited, a technology and consulting firm based in Cambridge that transferred certain assets, including the assignment and license on a non-exclusive royalty free basis of intellectualproperty rights, to CSR in exchange for ordinary shares.
CSR plc the holding company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 26 March 2001 with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited registered number 04187346, as a private company limited by shares under the Companies Act 1985.
On 10 July 2001, the company was re-registered as a public company limited by shares with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings plc: on 25 October 2002, it was re-registered as a private company limited by shares with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited: and on 19 February 2004, it was re-registered as a public company limited by shares with the name CSR plc.
CSR ordinary shares were admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange in March 2004.
CSR is a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.
In connection with the acquisition of Zoran Corporation in August 2011, ordinary shares issued by CSR in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs were listed on the NASDAQ Global Select market.
Beginning in 2005, we have sought to broaden our technological base and product range through a series of acquisitions, as follows: In March 2005, we acquired Clarity Technologies, Inc. for $17.1 million, in cash.
In August 2005, we acquired the software business of UbiNetics VPT Limited for $48 million in cash.
In May 2008, as a result of an operational strategy assessment, we decided to cease our ongoing investment in the UbiNetics protocol software development programme, which had been acquired with the software business of UbiNetics in August 2005.
In January 2007, we acquired NordNav Technologies AB for an initial consideration of $40 million, in cash.
In 2008, we paid a further consideration of $17.5 million in cash.
Through this acquisition, we acquired early-stage GPS technology and intellectual property to develop a software-based GPS solution.
In January 2007, we also acquired Cambridge Positioning Systems Limited for $35 million in cash.
Through this acquisition, we acquired specialised location system technology to address solutions when GPS signals may be unavailable e. g. indoors.
In June 2009, we acquired SiRF Technology Holdings Inc, for a consideration of $281.5 million satisfied by the issue of shares in CSR plc to holders of SiRF common stock, as at 26 June 2009, at a ratio of 0.741 of a CSR ordinary share for each SiRF share of common stock.
Through the merger, we acquired a leader in semiconductor-based GPS location platforms with strong hardware, software and system capabilities, as a further step towards building our position in multifunction platforms.
In July 2010, we acquired APT Licensing Limited, a leading ultra-high quality codec developer, for an initial consideration of $4.25 million.
Through this acquisition, we acquired technicalcapability in audio codecs to further strengthen our presence in mobile and wireless audio streaming.
In August 2011, we acquired Zoran Corporation, a leading provider of digital solutions for the digital entertainment and digital imaging markets, for a consideration of $440.5 million, satisfied by: i the payment of $316.4 million in cash being a payment of $6.26 in cash for each share of Zoran Corporation common stock held : and ii the issue of ordinary shares in CSR plc in the form of ADSs each ADS representing four ordinary shares in CSR plc at a ratio of 0.589 ordinary shares for each Zoran share of common stock, to holders of Zoran Corporation common stock, as at 31 August 2011.
Through the acquisition, Zoran provided the enlarged CSR group with imaging and video capabilities to further strengthen CSRs core business within its existing markets and to create new growth opportunities within global electronics markets such as internet-enabled, location-aware digital cameras, enhanced video and imaging, automotive infotainment platforms and peripherals.
In October 2012, we completed the transfer of our handset connectivity and handset location development operations and technology along with 311 people to Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. for US$310 million in cash the Transaction.
The consideration is subject to an adjustment in certain circumstances linked to progress with finalising development of CSR9800.
The maximum adjustment is a $10 million increase or decrease.
The Transaction accelerated the execution of the Companys strategy of focusing on markets where it has leadership positions and the ability to deliver differentiated platforms and products through the application of its market-leading technologies and IP.
In addition, on completion of the Transaction, Samsung Electronics Europe Holding Coperatief U.
A. invested US$34.4 million in return for new ordinary shares in the Company.
com Corporate and share information continued Following completion of the Transaction, the Company initiated a tender offer pursuant to the terms set out in a circular posted to shareholders on 29 October 2012 the Tender Offer.
The Tender Offer closed on 29 November 2012 and was oversubscribed, with a total of 100,479,558 ordinary shares including ordinary shares represented by ADSs being properly tendered and not withdrawn by shareholders and ADS holders.
US$285 million was returned to shareholders by the purchase of49,080,388 ordinary shares at a price of 360 pence per ordinary share, effective 30 November 2012 applying a pro-ration of approximately 88.9% reflecting the oversubscription.
The ordinary shares acquired by the Company were cancelled on 30 November 2012 and none of them were transferred to treasury.
The revised issued share capital on the day of completing the Tender Offer was 165,411,588 ordinary shares, excluding treasury shares of 16,193,671 million ordinary shares at that date.
Sales and marketing CSRs sales and marketing function is centered in Cambridge, United Kingdom and Sunnyvale, United States with sales and liaison offices in Burlington and Plano, United States: Haifa, Israel: Hsinchu and Taipei, Taiwan: Seoul and Gumi, South Korea: Tokyo, Japan: Singapore: Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen, China.
CSR markets to OEMs and ODMs, principally through our direct sales force and, in North America, through sales representatives.
CSR also markets its products through a global network of distributors.
CSRs marketing efforts are supported by a team of applications engineers who provide technical support and assistance to existing and potential customers in designing, testing and qualifying systems that incorporate its products.
This support is generally provided without charge to customers who have the potential to purchase large volumes of products.
An important part of CSRs marketing effort involves providing technical support to product developers to encourage them to design products using CSRs chips.
For this purpose, CSR provides a range of development kits and tools.
For a discussion of CSRs revenue by product segment, see Business and Financial Review Financial Performance Segmental Analysis of this Annual Report.
For a discussion of CSRs revenues by geographic area, see Business and Financial Review Financial Performance Geographical Analysis of this Annual Report.
Manufacturing and assembly CSR is a fabless semiconductor company, which means we subcontract all aspects associated with the manufacture and testing of our products prior to shipping to our customers.
TSMC and ASE remain the primary vendors for wafer fabrication, test, assembly and packaging although we have enlarged our supplier base following the acquisitions of SiRF and Zoran.
CSR sources the manufacture and test of our products from a number of locations across the world, comprising Taiwan, United States, South Korea, Malaysia and Singapore.
We do not have long-term contracts with any of these third parties, and thus have no contractual assurance as to their long-term availability or the costs associated with the supply of products and services.
Through all our subcontractors, we work to ensure that the Group is able to maintain sufficient capacity to support the demand for our products.
Such continuity of supply can be affected in the event of a loss of capacity at a supplier due to events affecting their business, or increased demand from our competitors which may mean we are unable to secure the volumes of products we require to meet customer demand.
This is discussed in more detail on pages 40 and 49 in the section which explains risk factors which might affect our business.
Seasonality CSR has historically experienced increased net revenue in its second and third quarters primarily due to seasonal demand related to the holiday season and end of calendar year spending patterns in corporate budgets.
Due to continued economic uncertainty and other factors, past historical patterns should not be considered a reliable indicator of CSRs future net revenue or financial performance and historical seasonal patterns may not recur.
Governmental regulation For a discussion of the possible effects of governmental regulations on CSRs business, please refer to the Risk Factors and to the discussion of international political and other risks on page 50.
Intellectualproperty Our success and ability to compete depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technology.
As of 28 December 2012, we had approximately 1550 patents granted worldwide with expiration dates ranging from 2013 to 2031 and approximately 1000 pending patent applications.
We intend to continue to assess appropriate occasions for seeking patent protection for those aspects of our technology that we believe provides significant competitive advantage.
Although we file patents to protect our inventions, our revenue is not dependent on any particular patent.
We do not believe that the expiration or loss of a particular patent would materially harm our business.
CSRs Bluetooth products use the Bluetooth trademark, which is owned by the Bluetooth SIG, or special interest group, a trade association of which CSR is a member.
Any company incorporating Bluetooth wireless technology into products or services, or rebranding a product with Bluetooth technology, must become a member of the Bluetooth SIG.
The Bluetooth trademark is licensed on a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, non-transferable, personal basis for use by companies that are incorporating qualified Bluetooth wireless technology into their products.
CSR is a licensee of the Bluetooth trademark.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Other information CSR plc Churchill House Cambridge Business Park Cowley Road Cambridge CB4 OWZ Registered in England and Wales 4187346 www.
com Advisors Auditors Deloitte LLP Corporate brokers JPMorgan Cazenove Limited Solicitors Slaughter and May Bank Lloyds TSB Bank plc Share Information at 20 March 2013 Shares outstanding including shares underlying the ADSs 169,543,749 Trading Symbol Ordinary Shares CSR.
L Country of Registration England Market London Stock Exchange SEDOL 3414738 Registrar Equiniti, AspectHouse, SpencerRoad, Lancing, WestSussex, BN996DA ADSs evidenced by American Depositary Receipts, each ADS representing 4 ordinary shares of CSR Trading Symbol ADSs CSRE Market NASDAQ Global Select Market Depositary JPMorganChaseBankN.
A. POBox64504, St. Paul, MN55164-0504 ADS payment information The rights of ADS holders are set forth in the deposit agreement Deposit Agreement entered into among JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as depositary the Depositary, ADS holders from time to time and CSR.
CSR filed the Deposit Agreement with the SEC as an exhibit to its registration statement on Form F-6 on 26 July 2011.
We summarize below some provisions of the Deposit Agreement relating to fees and charges that an ADS holder may have to pay, as well as fees and other payments made by the Depositary to CSR.
Fees payable by ADS holders Under the terms of the Deposit Agreement, an ADR holder may have to pay the following service fees to the Depositary: Service Fees Issuances, including against the deposit of ordinary shares, in Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof issued respect of distribution of shares, rights or other property, stock dividend, stock splits, rights, merger: exchange of securities or other transaction or event or other distribution affecting the ADSs or ordinary shares Surrender of ADSs for withdrawal of ordinary shares, cancellation Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof issued or reduction of ADSs Cash distributions Up to US$0.05 per ADS Transfer of ADRs US$1.50 per ADR presented for transfer Distribution or sale of securities, the fee being in an amount equal Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof issued to the fee for the execution and delivery of ADSs that would have been charged as a result of the deposit of such securities Depositary administration services Up to US$0.05 per ADS payable at the sole discretion of the Depositary by billing ADS holders or by deducting charges from one or more cash dividends or other cash distributions Expenses of the Depositary incurred on behalf of ADS holders, Expenses payable at the sole discretion of the Depositary by billing including in connection with a compliance with applicable law or ADS holders or by deducting charges from one or more cash regulation e. g. foreign exchange control regulations or any law or dividends or other cash distributions regulation relating to foreign investment, b stock transfer or other taxes and governmental charges, c electronic and facsimile transmission delivery charges, d transfer or registration fees for the registration or transfers of underlying shares, and e the conversion of foreign currency into US dollars which are paid out of such foreign currency The Depositary has agreed to waive the issuance fee for the issuance of ADSs against the deposit of ordinary shares in connection with certain events and not to charge ADS holders for certain cash dividend fees or annual administrative service fees, unless otherwise agreed with CSR.
com Corporate and share information continued Feesandpayments madebytheDepositary toCSR The Depositary has agreed to waive certain fees and expenses relating to the establishment of the CSR ADS programme, including legal counsels fees incurred by the Depositary.
The Depositary has also agreed to reimburse CSR up to a certain limit for certain expenses in connection with the maintenance of the ADS programme, including investor relations activities, listing fees and reasonable legal, audit and accounting fees.
The Depositary has further agreed to waive, on an annual basis, servicing fees relating to routine corporate actions, as well as other administration and operating expenses, including maintenance of DR register, administration of ADS holders accounts and custodian reconciliation.
During the first year period after the effective date of the Deposit Agreement, the Depositary has agreed to reimburse CSR up to $50,000 for certain expenses incurred by CSR in connection with the establishment of the ADS program.
As of 28 December 2012, no fees or other payments were paid by the Depositary to CSR.
Market prices The primary trading market for CSR ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange, where CSR ordinary shares trade under the ticker symbol CSR.
L. As of 28 December 2012, there were 181,896,339 CSR ordinary shares outstanding, of which 16,054,999 shares were held in treasury.
The following table shows the high and low market prices for CSR ordinary shares in pounds sterling for the five most recent full financial years, for each full financial quarter for the two most recent full financial years and for each month within the last six months: CSR Ordinary Shares pence Year High Low 2012 365.60 187.80 2011 447.00 154.10 2010 505.00 280.90 2009 508.00 157.25 2008 600.00 150.25 CSROrdinaryShares pence Quarter High Low Fourth Quarter 2012 365.60 324.50 Third Quarter 2012 338.40 218.30 Second Quarter 2012 236.10 194.60 First Quarter 2012 275.00 187.80 Fourth Quarter 2011 204.20 154.10 Third Quarter 2011 321.60 208.00 Second Quarter 2011 391.40 302.00 First Quarter 2011 447.00 350.30 CSROrdinaryShares pence Month High Low 1 February 2013 389.80 364.00 January 2013 376.20 346.70 December 2012 343.20 332.00 November 2012 365.60 335.10 October 2012 352.90 324.50 September 2012 333.00 308.10 1 The information for February 2013 is as at 15 February 2013, the latest practicable date prior to the signing of this report.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Other information From 31 August 2011, CSR ordinary shares have been listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market in the form of ADSs, with each ADS representing four ordinary shares of CSR: the ticker symbol is CSRE.
The following table shows the high and low market prices for CSR ADSs in US dollars for the full year 2012, for the portion of the 2011 financial year from the commencement of the listing, for the financial quarters since the listing part of the Third Quarter 2011 and full quarters from the Fourth Quarter 2011 onwards and for each month within the last six months: CSR ADSs US $ Year High Low 2012 23.10 11.51 2011 15.20 9.38 CSR ADSs US $ Quarter High Low Fourth Quarter 2012 23.10 20.74 Third Quarter 2012 21.15 13.56 Second Quarter 2012 15.13 12.02 First Quarter 2012 16.32 11.51 Fourth Quarter 2011 13.05 9.38 Third Quarter 2011 15.20 12.98 CSR ADSs US $ Month High Low 1 February 2013 24.26 22.87 January 2013 24.18 22.23 December 2012 22.14 21.32 November 2012 23.10 21.45 October 2012 22.76 20.74 September 2012 21.15 19.77 1 The information for February 2013 is as at 15 February 2013, the latest practicable date prior to the signing of this report.
Share buy-back During the period covered by this Annual Report, CSR undertook open-market purchases of its ordinary shares.
The purchases, which are set forth in the table below, were instituted by the Board of CSR under authorities granted by shareholders at general meetings.
This is explained in more detail on page 19 of the Business Review.
Maximum Number or Total Total Number of Shares Approximate Dollar Value of Number of Average Purchased as Part of Publicly Shares or units that May Yet Issuer Purchases of Shares Price Paid per Announced Plans or be Purchased Under the Plans Equity Securities Period Start date End date Purchased Share pence Programs or Programs February 2012 24-Feb 28-Feb 585,000 249.84 585,000 March 2012 1-Mar 30-Mar 1,865,484 239.61 1,865,484 1 On 20 February 2012, CSR announced its intention to undertake open-market purchases of its ordinary shares up to US$50 million the 2012 Share Buyback, approximately US$9.4 million of which was expended.
The 2012 Share Buyback was instituted by the Board of CSR under a general authority provided by shareholders at an AGM held in May 2011.
This general authority is renewed generally on an annual basis and in respect of the 2012 Share Buyback was renewed at the AGM held in May 2011.
Tender Offer During the period covered by this Annual Report, CSR undertook the purchase of its ordinary shares via a tender offer, pursuant to terms set out in a circular posted to shareholders on 29 October 2012 and under authority given by shareholders at a General Meeting held on 17 August 2012.
For more information please see the Chairmans Statement on pages 6 and 7 and pages 76 and 77 of Other Statutory Information.
Maximum number or Total Total Number of Shares approximate Dollar value of number of purchased as part of publicly Shares or units that may yet Issuer purchases of Shares Price paid per announced plans or be purchased under the Plans 1 2 Equity Securities date purchased Share pence programmes or Programmes 30 November 2012 49,080,388 360.00 49,080,388 146 147 www.
com Corporate and share information continued Exchange rates The following table sets out, for the periods and dates indicated, the period end, average, high and low exchange rates for pounds sterling expressed in US dollars per 1.00.
Dividend The Board will at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting be proposing that a final dividend be paid in respect of the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 of $0.08 per ordinary share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the dividend will be paid on 31 May 2013, to shareholders of record on 10 May 2013.
An interim dividend was paid in respect of the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 on 7 September 2012 of $0.038 per ordinary share.
A final dividend for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 of $0.071 per ordinary share was paid on 1 June 2012, following approval at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2012.
In 2013 the Board intends to continue to pay dividends on a semi-annual basis.
Major shareholders Information regarding our major shareholders is disclosed on page 80.
None of the holders of CSR ordinary shares has voting rights that differ from those of other shareholders.
JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. as custodian of the Companys ADR programme, held approximately 2.01% of the Companys ordinary shares of 0.1p each at 20 March 2013 as nominee.
The total number of ADRs outstanding at 20 March 2013 were 850,868.
As of 20 March 2013, there were 200 shareholders with a US address on the register of shareholders, representing approximately 0.26% of CSRs outstanding share capital.
Because many of our ordinary shares are held by brokers and nominees, the number of recorded shareholders in the US may not be representative of the number of US beneficial shareholders of our ordinary shares.
CSR is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by any government, person or other legal entity.
There are no arrangements known to CSR that could result in a change of control of CSR.
Agent in the United States The Companys agent for service in the United States is National Registered Agents, Inc, 160 Greentree Drive, Suite 101, Dover, Delaware 19904.
Documents on display We previously filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, a registration statement on Form F-4 File No.
333-173590 and a related prospectus with respect to an offering of our ordinary shares in the United States on 19 April 2011.
Under the Exchange Act, we are required to file reports and other information with the SEC.
Copies of these reports and other information, when so filed, including documents referred to in this Annual Report, may be inspected without charge and may be obtained at prescribed rates at the public reference facilities maintained by the SEC at Judiciary Plaza, 100 F Street, N. E. Washington, D. C. 20549.
For further information regarding the operation of the public reference room and the copy charges, please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
The SEC maintains a web site at http: www.
gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that make electronic filings with the SEC using its EDGAR system.
As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules of the Exchange Act prescribing the furnishing and content of quarterly reports and proxy statements, and our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and shortswing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
This Annual Report is also available, free of charge, at www.
You may also obtain copies of this Report, free of charge, by mail.
The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report.
Memorandum and Articles of Association The following summarises certain provisions of the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law, as currently in effect.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the United Kingdom or by writing to the Company Secretary.
Copies of the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, as currently in force, are available from the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission website at www.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Other information Objects and purposes CSR plc was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 26 March, 2001 with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited, as a private company limited by shares under the Companies Act 2006.
On 10 July, 2001, CSR was re-registered as a public company limited by shares with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings plc: on 25 October, 2002, CSR was reregistered as a private company limited by shares with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited: and on 19 February, 2004, it was re-registered as a public company limited by shares with the name CSR plc registered number 04187346.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys objects are unrestricted, as set out in clause 4 of the Companys Memorandum of Association.
Directors The business of the Company is conducted under the supervision of the Board.
Conflicts of interest The Companies Act 2006 requires a director of a company who is in any way interested, directly or indirectly, in a contract or proposed contract with the Company to declare the nature and extent of his interest to the other directors of the Company.
The Companies Act 2006 also requires that a director must avoid a situation where a director has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the companys interests.
It allows directors of public companies to authorise such conflicts where appropriate, if a companys articles of association so permit.
CSRs Articles of Association provide that the Board may in specified circumstances authorise any matter that would otherwise involve a director breaching his duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a conflict of interest.
They also provide that, subject to authorisation of such conflict, a director may retain any benefit derived by reason of that interest.
Director compensation The Board sets the Companys remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee determines on behalf of the Board, specific remuneration packages for each of the executive directors and for the Chairman.
Only non-executive directors serve on the Remuneration Committee and the members of the Remuneration Committee are independent of executive management.
The Remuneration Committee monitors and provides guidance on the level and structure of remuneration for senior management who report to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairman and executive directors determine the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
No director may participate in discussions relating to his or her own terms and conditions of service or remuneration.
Borrowing powers The Board may exercise the Companys borrowing powers.
Save with the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution, such borrowing powers are restricted where the principal amount outstanding of all borrowings exceeds, or would as a result of such borrowing exceed, an amount equal to the greater of 300,000,000 and three times the Companys adjusted capital and reserves.
Retirement The Companys Articles of Association state that a director shall retire from office and may offer himself for re-appointment when he has been appointed since the last annual general meeting, held office in the preceding two annual general meetings and did not retire at either of them or has been in office, other than employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires all directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual election by shareholders.
Accordingly, all directors will be retiring at the AGM and offering themselves for re-election.
This is explained in further detail in the AGM notice which is a separate document issued to shareholders.
Director qualifying shares Directors of the Company are not required by the Memorandum or the Articles of Association to hold any shares in the Company.
Rights and restrictions attaching to the shares Dividend rights The shareholders may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of CSR, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is not liable to holders of shares with preferred or similar rights for losses arising from the payment of interim or fixed dividends on other shares.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other moneys payable in respect of CSRs shares from a person with a 0.25% interest if such a person has been served with a restriction notice after failure to provide CSR with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006.
The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution, offer shareholders excluding any member holding shares as treasury shares in respect of any dividend the right to elect to receive shares by way of scrip dividend instead of cash.
Any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years from the date when it was declared or became due for payment must be forfeited and revert to CSR unless the Board decides otherwise.
CSR may stop sending cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments in payment of dividends by post in respect of any shares or may cease to employ any other means of payment, including payment by means of a relevant system, for dividends if either i at least two consecutive payments have remained uncashed or are returned undelivered or that means of payment has failed or ii one payment remains uncashed or is returned undelivered or that means of payment has failed and reasonable inquiries have failed to establish any new postal address or account of the holder.
In addition, CSR must resume sending dividend cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments or employing that means of payment if the holder requests such resumption in writing.
com Corporate and share information continued Voting rights Members will be entitled to vote at a general meeting or class meeting whether on a show of hands or a poll.
Under the Companies Act 2006: a on a show of hands every member who is present in person is entitled to one vote regardless of the number of shares he or she holds.
Every proxy present who has been duly appointed by a shareholder entitled to vote on the resolution has one vote on a show of hands, unless the proxy is appointed by more than one shareholder in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more shareholders to vote for the resolution and by one or more shareholders to vote against the resolution.
The Articles of Association provide that, where a proxy is given discretion as to how to vote on a show of hands, this will be treated as an instruction by the relevant member to vote in the way that the proxy decides to exercise that discretion: and b on a poll every member has one vote per share held by him and he may vote in person or by one or more proxies.
Where he appoints more than one proxy, the proxies appointed by him taken together shall not have more extensive voting rights than he could exercise in person.
The Articles of Association provide that resolutions put to a vote at a shareholders meeting will be decided on a show of hands, unless a poll is demanded by: a the chairman of the meeting: b not less than five members present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote: c a member or members present in person or by proxy and representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting: or d a member or members present in person or by proxy and holding shares in CSR conferring a right to vote at the meeting being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
A demand for a poll may be withdrawn with the consent of the chairman of the meeting at any time before the close of the meeting or the taking of the poll, whichever is the earlier.
A demand so withdrawn shall not invalidate the result of a show of hands declared before the demand was made.
Under English law, any shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at a meeting of the company.
Generally under English law, two shareholders present in person or by proxy constitute a quorum for the purpose of a general meeting, unless the companys articles of association specify otherwise.
The Articles of Association specify that two members present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote constitute a quorum for all purposes.
Under the Articles of Association, no member is entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect to any share held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid or if a member has been served with a restriction notice after failure to provide CSR with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006.
Rights to share in profits Other than the provisions outlined above in relation to dividends that have been declared and the provisions below in relation to rights on a liquidation of CSR, shareholders have no rights to share in the profits of CSR.
Pre-emptive rights Subject to the Companies Act 2006, any equity securities issued by CSR for cash must first be offered to CSR shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings of CSR ordinary shares.
The Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules made by the UK Listing Authority, allow for the disapplication of pre-emption rights, which may be waived by a special resolution of CSR shareholders, either generally or specifically, for a maximum period not exceeding five years.
Liquidation rights The rights of shareholders to share in any surplus in the event of liquidation are not expressly dealt with in the Articles of Association.
Under English law, if CSR is wound up whether the liquidation is voluntary, under supervision of the Court, or by the Court, the liquidator is under a duty to collect in and realise the assets of CSR and to distribute them to CSRs creditors, and, if there is a surplus, to CSR shareholders according to their entitlements.
This applies whether the assets consist of property of one kind or of different kinds.
Redemption provisions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the listing rules, CSR may purchase or contract to purchase any of its ordinary shares on or off-market.
CSR may only purchase its ordinary shares out of distributable reserves or the proceeds of a new issue of shares made for the purpose of funding the repurchase.
Sinking fund provisions CSR shares are not subject to any sinking fund provision under its Memorandum or Articles of Association or under English law.
Capital calls Shareholders have no liability for capital calls by the Company except with respect to the unpaid amount, if any, respecting their shares consisting of the nominal value of the shares and any premium which may be payable on those shares.
The directors can call on shareholders to pay such amounts that have not yet been paid to the Company for their shares.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Other information Provisions applicable only to significant shareholders There are no provisions in the Memorandum or Articles of Association discriminating against a shareholder as a result of his or her ownership of a substantial number of shares.
Variation of rights The Articles of Association provide that the rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting except an adjourned meeting the quorum must be two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares are not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking equally with them.
General meetings The Articles of Association rely on the Companies Act 2006 provisions dealing with the calling of general meetings.
An annual general meeting of shareholders must be held once in every year within a period of six months beginning with the day following CSRs accounting reference date.
CSRs Board may convene a general meeting of shareholders whenever they think fit or where they are requisitioned to do so by CSR shareholders in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
General meetings may be held at such time and place as may be determined by CSRs Board.
An annual general meeting must be convened on at least 21 days written notice to shareholders entitled to receive notices.
General meetings must be convened on at least 21 days written notice unless the requisite majority of shareholders has agreed to short notice.
Two shareholders must be present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote to constitute a quorum for all purposes at general meetings of CSR.
Limitation on voting rights Persons who are neither residents in the UK nor UK nationals may freely hold, vote and transfer shares in the same manner as UK residents or nationals.
Any member whose registered address is not within the UK can give the Company a postal address within the UK or an address for electronic communications at which notices may be served on him.
Otherwise, a member whose registered address is not within the UK is not entitled to receive any notice from the Company.
Change of control The Company can issue additional shares with any rights or restrictions attached to them as long as not restricted by any rights attached to existing shares.
These rights or restrictions can be decided by the directors so long as there is no conflict with any resolution passed by the shareholders.
The ability of the directors to issue shares with rights or restrictions that are different than those attached to the currently outstanding ordinary shares could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing change of control of the Company.
Disclosure of interests in shares The UK FinancialServices Authority and Disclosure and Transparency Rules impose an obligation upon a person who acquires or ceases to have notifiable interest in the relevant share capital of a public company to notify the company of that fact within two days excluding weekends and bank holidays of his or her knowing of its occurrence.
In addition, the Companies Act 2006 provides that a public company may, by notice in writing, require a person whom the company knows or reasonably believes to be or to have been within the three preceding years, interested in the companys issued voting share capital to 1 confirm whether this is or is not the case, and 2 if this is the case, to give further information that the company requires relating to his interest or any other interest in the companys shares of which he is aware.
The Articles of Association provide that if the holder of any shares or a person who appears to be interested in those shares, fails to comply within the relevant period with any statutory notice in respect of those shares, or makes a statement in response to the notice which is false or inadequate in a material particular, CSR may restrict the rights relating to the identified shares, following a restriction notice.
The restriction notice will state that the identified shares no longer give the shareholder any right to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any right in relation to the shareholders meetings.
Where the identified shares make up 0.25% or more in amount or in number of the existing shares of a class at the date of delivery of the restriction notice, the restriction notice can also contain the following further restrictions: i the Board can withhold any dividend or part of a dividend or other money otherwise payable in respect of the identified shares without any right to the holder to receive any shares in lieu of dividend: and ii the Board can refuse to register a transfer of any of the identified shares which are certificated shares unless the Board is satisfied that they have been sold outright to an independent third party.
Once a restriction notice has been given, the Board is free to cancel it or exclude any shares from it at any time they think fit.
In addition, it must cancel the restriction notice within seven days of being satisfied that all information requested in the statutory notice has been given.
Also, where any of the identified shares are sold and the Directors are satisfied that they were sold outright to an independent third party, they must cancel the restriction notice within seven days of receipt of the notification of the sale.
The Articles of Association do not restrict in any way the provision of the legislation which apply to failures to comply with notices under the legislation.
The UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers imposes rigorous disclosure requirements affecting parties to a proposed takeover, their associates and persons acting in concert in relation to the shares of a company.
These requirements also extend to dealings by persons who directly or indirectly own or control either before or as a result of the dealing 1% or more of the equity shares in an offeror or offeree company or of any other class of shares relevant to the offer in question.
Rule 13d-1 of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires that a person or group acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 5% of equity securities registered under that Act discloses such information to the SEC within 10 days after the acquisition.
CSR is required by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority to disclose in its annual report the identity and share interests of its directors and any persons connected with them, as defined in the Companies Act 2006, and of any person with an interest of 3% or more of its CSR ordinary shares.
com Corporate and share information continued Persons discharging managerial responsibilities PDMRs primarily directors and some senior executives, and their connected persons, must notify a public company such as CSR in writing of the occurrence of all transactions conducted on their own account in the shares of the company, or derivatives or any other financial instruments relating to those shares within four business days of the day on which the transaction occurred.
The notification must contain specified information, including the name of the person involved, the type of transaction, the date on which it occurred, and the price and volume of the transaction.
The public company must notify a regulatory news service which will make the information public of any information notified to it in accordance with these provisions.
The notification to a regulatory news service must be made as soon as possible, and in any event by no later than the end of the business day following the receipt of the information by the company.
The Board has recently reassessed which members of the Companys executive should be regarded as PDMRs for the purposes of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
In light of developments in the business and reflecting existing roles and responsibilities, with effect from 1 January 2011, we regard as PDMRs, in addition to the directors, all those who report to the CEO with executive responsibility for each of our three business units, and the General Counsel.
PDMRs currently comprise, in addition to the directors, the General Counsel and the SVP Business Group.
Differences from law in host country With respect to the items described above, applicable UK law is not significantly different from applicable US law.
Changes in share capital CSR may by ordinary resolution increase, consolidate, or consolidate and then subdivide its shares or any of them.
Subject to the Companies Act 2006, CSR, by resolution, may determine that, as between shares resulting from a subdivision, any of them may have a preference or advantage, or may be subject to restrictions as compared with the others.
CSR may, by special resolution, reduce its share capital, share premium account, capital redemption reserve or any other undistributable reserve.
Material contracts Excluding contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business, no contracts have been entered into in the two years preceding the date of this document by CSR or any other member of the Group that are considered material to its results or operations, other than the merger agreement with Zoran and the transaction with Samsung for the transfer of CSRs handset connectivity and location technology along with 311 people.
On 21 February 2011, CSR entered into an agreement and plan of merger with Zoran Corporation.
An amended and restated agreement and plan of merger was subsequently entered into by the parties and Zeiss Merger Sub, Inc. on 16 June 2011.
Under the terms of the amended and restated agreement, Zeiss Merger Sub, Inc. a subsidiary of CSR was merged with and into Zoran Corporation, with Zeiss Merger Sub, Inc. as the surviving corporation but subsequently renamed Zoran Corporation.
Zoran was acquired by CSR for a consideration of $440.5 million satisfied in cash and the issue by CSR of ordinary shares in the form of ADSs to Zoran shareholders.
The acquisition was completed on 31 August 2011.
On 17 July 2012 CSR entered into an agreement with Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. Samsung for the transfer to Samsung of CSRs handset connectivity and handset location development operations and technology along with 311 people for US$310 million in cash the Transaction.
On the completion of the Transaction, on 4 October 2012, Samsung Electronics Europe Holding Coperatief U.
A. invested US$34.4 million in return for 9,925,000 new ordinary shares in the Company.
For more information on the Transaction please see pages 6 and 9 of the Chairmans Statement.
Exchange controls There are currently no foreign exchange control restrictions on CSRs ability to pay dividends on its ordinary shares or on the conduct of its operations imposed by English law.
There are currently no limitations on the right of non-residents or foreign owners to hold or vote CSR ordinary shares imposed by English law or CSRs Articles of Association.
Taxation US Holders US federal income tax matters The following general discussion describes the material US federal income tax consequences of the ownership of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares that are generally applicable to US holders as defined below.
However, this discussion does not address all aspects of taxation that may be relevant to particular US holders in light of their personal investment or tax circumstances or to persons that are subject to special tax rules.
In addition, this discussion does not address the tax treatment of special classes of US holders, such as banks, insurance companies, tax-exempt entities, financial institutions, broker-dealers, persons that actually or constructively own 10% or more of the total combined voting stock of CSR, persons holding CSR ADSs or ordinary shares as part of a hedging or conversion transaction or as part of a straddle, US expatriates, persons subject to the alternative minimum tax, and non-US holders.
This discussion may not be applicable to holders who acquired CSR ADSs or ordinary shares pursuant to the exercise of options or warrants or otherwise as compensation.
Furthermore, this discussion of US federal income tax matters does not give a detailed discussion of any US federal estate or gift tax considerations, state or local tax considerations or tax considerations with respect to any non-US jurisdiction.
We urge you to consult your own tax advisor as to the specific tax consequences of the ownership of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares, including the applicable US federal, state, local and foreign income and other tax consequences to you of the ownership of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
,  , asamended, ortheInternal RevenueCode,  i , ii  , , iii anestatethe , or iv atrust a  CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Other information  trustor b .
This discussion is based on the Internal Revenue Code, applicable Department of Treasury regulations, judicial authority, and administrative rulings and practice, all as of the date of this Annual Report.
This discussion is not binding on the US Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, or the courts.
Future legislative, judicial, or administrative changes or interpretations, which may or may not be retroactive, may adversely affect the accuracy of this discussion.
Ownership of ADSs For US federal income tax purposes, a US holder of CSR ADSs generally will be treated as the owner of the underlying shares represented by the ADSs.
Accordingly, withdrawals or deposits of ordinary shares in exchange for CSR ADSs generally will not be subject to US federal income taxation.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the US Treasury has expressed concerns that intermediaries in the chain of ownership between the holder of an ADS and the issuer of the security underlying the ADS may be taking actions that are inconsistent with the beneficial ownership of the underlying shares for example, pre-releasing ADSs to persons who do not have the beneficial ownership of the securities underlying the ADSs.
Accordingly, the analysis of the creditability of United Kingdom taxes and the availability of the reduced rate of tax for dividends received by certain non-corporate US holders, as described below, could be affected by actions taken by intermediaries in the chain of ownership between the holder of CSR ADSs and CSR if, as a result of such actions, the holders of CSR ADSs are not properly treated as the beneficial owners of the underlying ordinary shares.
We are not aware of any intention to take any such actions, and accordingly, the remainder of this discussion assumes that holders of CSR ADSs will be properly treated as the beneficial owners of the underlying ordinary shares.
PassiveForeign Investment Company Rules Special US federal income tax rules apply to US holders owning stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC.
A foreign corporation generally will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year in which i 75% or more of its gross income is passive income, or ii 50% or more of the average value of its assets are considered passive assets generally, assets that generate passive income.
Based upon an analysis of CSRs holdings during the taxable year ended 28 December 2012 of cash and liquid assets such as bank deposits and marketable securities all of which are passive assets for these purposes and CSRs share price for such period which affects the valuation of certain assets, including goodwill, CSR believes that it did not qualify as a PFIC for its taxable year ended 28 December 2012.
Moreover, CSR believes that it will not qualify as a PFIC for its taxable year ending 27 December 2013.
However, the determination of whether a company is a PFIC is highly factual, and will depend, among other things, upon CSRs actual holdings of passive assets and share price during such period.
Given CSRs significant holdings of passive assets such as cash and marketable securities, if CSRs share price were to decline for an extended time to levels comparable to its low point during November 2011, it is possible that CSR would be treated as a PFIC in a future taxable year.
CSR will continue to monitor whether it qualifies as a PFIC, and will notify US holders of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares if it determines that it is a PFIC for a given taxable year.
If CSR were classified as a PFIC for any taxable year during which US holders hold CSR ADSs or ordinary shares, US holders would be subject to special, adverse rules unless, as described below, they make either a QEF election or a mark-to-market election with respect to their CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
Absent such elections, US holders gain from the sale or other disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares and excess distributions received from CSR would be ordinary income.
Such income would be taxed as if the gain or excess distribution had been realized ratably over the US holders holding period and would be increased by an interest charge with respect to underpayments of tax as if the ratable portion of the gain or excess distribution with respect to a given prior taxable year had been subject to tax in such year.
An excess distribution generally would be any distribution to a US holder with respect to CSR ADSs or ordinary shares during a single taxable year that is greater than 125% of the average annual distributions received by such US holder with respect to CSR ADSs or ordinary shares during the three preceding taxable years or, if shorter, during his or her holding period with respect to the CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
For these purposes, gifts, exchanges pursuant to corporate reorganizations, and pledges of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares for use as a security for a loan may be treated as taxable dispositions.
US holders who make neither a mark-to-market election nor a QEF election will be required to file an IRS Form 8621 if they own CSR ADSs or ordinary shares in any year in which CSR is a PFIC and they receive a distribution from CSR or dispose of their CSR ADSs or ordinary shares and will also be required to file this form to make certain elections with respect to their CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
In addition, under recently enacted legislation, and subject to future guidance, in any year in which CSR is a PFIC, each US shareholder could be required to file an IRS Form 8621 regardless of whether or not such US shareholder received a distribution from CSR or disposed of his or her CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
Mark-to-market election If CSR ADSs or ordinary shares are considered to be traded on a qualified exchange or other market, US holders would not be subject to the foregoing PFIC taxation rules if they make a mark-to-market election with respect to their CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
Although the determination of whether shares are traded on a qualified exchange or other market is factual and there is no specific authority that designates certain non-US exchanges as qualified exchanges, CSR expects that US holders of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares will be able to make this election because CSR ADSs are currently traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market and CSRs ordinary shares are currently traded on the London Stock Exchange.
However, no assurance can be provided in this regard.
After making such an election, US holders generally would include as ordinary income in each year during which the election is in effect and during which CSR is a PFIC the excess, if any, of the fair market value of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares at the end of the taxable year over their adjusted basis in such CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
US holders also would be allowed to take an ordinary loss in respect of the excess, if any, of their adjusted basis in CSR ADSs or ordinary shares over their fair market value at the end of the taxable year but only to the extent of the net amount of income that was previously included as a result of the mark-to-market election.
US holders tax basis in CSR ADSs or ordinary shares would be adjusted to reflect any income or loss amounts resulting from a mark-to-market election.
If made, a mark-to-market election would be effective for the taxable year for which the election was made and for all subsequent taxable years in which CSR is a PFIC unless the CSR ADSs or ordinary shares were not considered to be traded on a qualified exchange or other market or the IRS consented to the revocation of the election.
For any year for which 152 153 www.
com Corporate and share information continued CSR is not a PFIC, the mark-to-market election is inoperative.
US holders make the mark-to-market election on IRS Form 8621, which must be filed along with their tax return for the taxable year for which the election is to take effect on or before the due date for such return including extensions.
US holders who decide to make the mark-to-market election are advised to make the election for the first taxable year for which CSR is a PFIC.
US holders must report income and loss with respect to the election for each year for which CSR is a PFIC on IRS Form 8621.
QEFelection The PFIC taxation rules outlined above also would not apply to US holders that elect to treat CSR as a qualified electing fund or QEF.
US holders that are eligible for and timely make a QEF election, would include in income each year for which CSR is a PFIC and would be subject to current US federal income tax on their pro rata share of CSRs ordinary earnings, as ordinary income, and net capital gains, as long-term capital gain, for the taxable year that ends with or within their taxable year, regardless of whether such amounts are actually distributed.
Any such ordinary income would not be eligible for the favorable rates applicable to qualified dividend income.
Corporate US holders would not be eligible for a dividends received deduction in respect of such income or gain.
US holders adjusted tax basis in CSR ADSs or ordinary shares would be increased to reflect taxed but undistributed earnings and profits.
Distributions of earnings and profits that had been previously taxed would result in a corresponding reduction in US holders adjusted tax basis in CSR ADSs or ordinary shares and would not be taxed again.
US holders would not, however, be entitled to a deduction for their pro rata share of any losses that CSR incurred with respect to any year.
US holders may only make a QEF election if CSR provides them with the information needed to determine CSRs ordinary earnings and net capital gains.
If it is a PFIC, CSR will provide US holders with the information that is necessary in order to make a QEF election and to report their shares of ordinary earnings and net capital gains for each year for which CSR is a PFIC.
CSR has had substantial taxable income in prior years, and may have taxable income in one or more future years in which it is a PFIC.
As CSR historically has not made cash distributions with respect to its CSR ADSs or ordinary shares, US holders may be taxed on significant phantom income if they make a QEF election.
A US holder may make a separate election to defer the payment of taxes on undistributed income inclusions under the QEF rules, but any taxes deferred would be subject to an interest charge.
For any year for which CSR is not a PFIC, the QEF election would be inoperative.
If US holders make a QEF election, they would generally recognize capital gain or loss on the sale, exchange or other disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
The QEF election is made by each US holder, and can only be revoked with the consent of the IRS.
US holders make the QEF election on IRS Form 8621, which must be filed along with their tax return for the first taxable year to which the election will apply on or before the due date for such return including extensions.
US holders who decide to make the QEF election are advised to make the election for the first taxable year for which CSR is a PFIC.
A US holder also must file Form 8621 with the IRS for each subsequent year that the election is in effect.
US holders cannot make both a mark-to-market election and a QEF election.
US holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors concerning the potential application of the PFIC rules to their ownership and disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares, including the availability and advisability of making a mark-to-market or QEF election.
Taxation of dividends Subject to the PFIC rules described above, for US federal income tax purposes, a US holder will generally include in gross income the amount of any dividend paid by CSR to the extent paid out of CSRs current and or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, as ordinary income when the dividend is actually or constructively received by the depositary, in the case of CSR ADSs, or by the US holder, in the case of ordinary shares.
Individual US holders currently are taxed at a maximum rate of 20% on dividends received from qualified foreign corporations, provided the US holders satisfy certain holding period and other requirements.
In order to be treated as a qualified foreign corporation, CSR must be eligible for benefits of the United States income tax treaty with the United Kingdom.
Although CSR believes that it is currently eligible for such treaty benefits, there can be no assurance that this will be the case for any taxable year.
Further, individual US holders will not be eligible for the reduced rates of dividend taxation if CSR is a PFIC for the taxable year of the dividend payment or the preceding taxable year.
Corporate US holders will be taxed on dividends received from CSR at a 35% tax rate.
Dividends generally will be income from sources outside of the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes, and generally will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction that is allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
Distributions in excess of CSRs current and or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the US holders tax basis in the CSR ADSs or ordinary shares and thereafter as capital gain.
The amount of the dividend includible in the income of a US holder will be the US dollar value of the dividend determined at the spot rate on the date that dividend is includible in the income of the US holder, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars at such time.
A US holder will have a basis in any GBP distributed by CSR equal to the US dollar value of the GBP on the date it is actually or constructively received by the US holder.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date the dividend payment is includible in income to the date that payment is converted into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss.
Taxation of capital gains Subject to the PFIC rules described above, upon a sale or other disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares, a US holder will generally recognize gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes in an amount equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realized and the US holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
Gain or loss recognized will be long-term capital gain or loss with respect to CSR ADSs or ordinary shares held for more than 12 months at the time of the sale or other disposition and any gain recognized generally will be income from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject to significant limitations.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Other information Backup withholding and information reporting In general, dividend payments with respect to CSR ADSs or ordinary shares and proceeds from the sale or other disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares made or deemed made within the United States may be subject to information reporting to the IRS and US backup withholding currently at a rate of 28%.
Backup withholding will generally not apply to a holder who: furnishes a correct taxpayer identificationnumber and certifies, under penalties of perjury, that such holder is not subject to backup withholding on a Form W-9, and otherwise complies with applicable requirements of the backup withholding rules: is a corporation or otherwise exempt from backup withholding and, when required, demonstrates this fact: or provides a certification of foreign status on Form W-8BEN or a successor form.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
Amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules will be allowed as a refund or credit against a holders US federal income tax liability, provided the holder furnished the required information to the IRS.
In addition, for taxable years beginning after 18 March 2010, new legislation requires certain US holders who are individuals that hold specified foreign financial assets which may include CSR ADSs or ordinary shares to report information relating to such assets, subject to certain exceptions.
US holders should consult their tax advisors regarding the effect, if any, of this legislation on their ownership and disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
Additional tax on investment income For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012, US holders that are individuals, estates or trusts and whose income exceeds certain thresholds will be subject to a 3.8% Medicare contribution tax on unearned income, including, among other things, dividends on, and capital gains from the sale or other disposition of, CSR ADSs or ordinary shares, subject to certain limitations and exceptions.
US holders should consult their tax advisors regarding the possible implications of the additional tax on investment income described above.
UK tax matters The following paragraphs summarise the material UK tax consequences for investors who are not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes including US investors who are not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes regarding ownership and disposal of CSR ordinary shares.
The following paragraphs, which are intended as a general guide only, are based on current UK tax legislation and what is understood to be HM Revenue & Customs the UK tax authority practice which are both subject to change at any time, possibly with retrospective effect.
They summarise certain limited aspects of the UK tax treatment of holders of CSR ordinary shares and apply only to the position of holders of CSR ordinary shares who for UK tax purposes are beneficial owners of their CSR ordinary shares, hold their CSR ordinary shares as an investment and not as assets to be realised in the course of a trade and are not treated as having acquired their CSR ordinary shares by reason of their or anothers employment.
They do not apply to holders of CSR ADSs.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares or CSR ADSs who are in any doubt as to their tax position should consult an appropriate professional adviser immediately.
Taxation of dividends Under current UK tax legislation, no tax will be withheld by CSR from cash dividend payments.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are resident outside the UK will generally not receive any payment from HM Revenue & Customs in respect of any tax credit on dividends paid by CSR.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are not resident, or, in the case of individuals, ordinarily resident, in the UK and who do not carry on a trade, profession, or vocation in the UK through a branch, agency or permanent establishment in connection with which their CSR ordinary shares are held, used or acquired will not generally be liable to pay any UK tax in respect of any dividends received on their CSR ordinary shares.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are resident, or, in the case of individuals, ordinarily resident, in the UK or who carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch, agency or permanent establishment in connection with which their CSR ordinary shares are held, used or acquired are encouraged to consult appropriate professional advisers.
Taxation of capital gains A holder of CSR ordinary shares who is not resident, or, in the case of an individual, ordinarily resident, in the UK will not ordinarily be liable to UK tax on capital gains realised on the disposal of CSR ordinary shares, unless, at the time of the disposal, he or she carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency in the case of an individual shareholder or a permanent establishment in the case of a corporate shareholder and those CSR ordinary shares are, or have been, used, held or acquired for the purposes of that trade, profession or vocation or branch or agency or permanent establishment as the case may be.
A holder of CSR ordinary shares who is an individual and who is temporarily resident outside the UK may be liable on his return to the UK to UK tax on capital gains arising during the period of absence, subject to any available exemption or relief.
Pursuant to provisions that will be included in the Finance Bill 2013, with effect on and after 6 April 2013, the concept of ordinary residence will for most purposes be abolished.
Stamp Duty and Stamp Duty Reserve Tax No UK stamp duty or UK stamp duty reserve tax UK SDRT will generally be payable on the issue of CSR ordinary shares.
Subject to the paragraph below, where CSR ordinary shares are issued or transferred i to, or to a nominee or agent for, a person whose business is or includes the provision of clearance services a Clearance Service or ii to, or to a nominee or agent for, a person whose business is or includes issuing depositary receipts a Depositary Receipt System, UK stamp duty or UK SDRT will generally be payable at the rate of 1.5% of the consideration paid rounded up to the nearest multiple of 5 in the case of UK stamp duty.
The UK stamp duty or UK SDRT will generally be paid by the Clearance Service or the Depositary Receipt System, as the case may be, but will, in practice, generally be required to be reimbursed by CSR or by the holder of the CSR ordinary shares or CSR ADSs in question.
A Clearance Service can elect under section 97A of the Finance Act 1986 Section 97A, provided certain conditions are satisfied, for the normal rate of UK stamp duty or UK SDRT generally no charge on issue and a charge at 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration paid, rounded up to the nearest 5 in the case of UK stamp duty, on transfer to apply to issues 154 155 www.
com Corporate and share information continued or transfers of CSR ordinary shares into, and transactions within, such Clearance Service instead of the higher rate of 1.5% generally applying to an issue or transfer of CSR ordinary shares into the Clearance Service and the ability to transfer CSR ordinary shares while in the Clearance Service without there being UK stamp duty or UK SDRT.
Following a decision of the European Court of Justice in October 2009, HM Revenue & Customs have announced that they will not seek to apply the 1.5% UK SDRT charge where new shares are first issued or, where it is integral to the raising of new capital, new shares are transferred into a Clearance Service or a Depositary Receipt System.
Thus, the 1.5% UK stamp duty or UK SDRT charge will apply only to the transfer of existing shares to Clearance Services or Depositary Receipt Systems in circumstances where the transfer is not integral to the raising of new capital.
Investors should, however, be aware that this area may be subject to further developments in the future.
No UK stamp duty or UK SDRT will generally be payable on the issue of CSR ordinary shares into CREST the London Stock Exchanges paperless trading system.
Subject to an exemption for certain low value transactions, the transfer on sale of CSR ordinary shares in certificated form will generally give rise to a liability, usually met by the purchaser, to ad valorem UK stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% rounded up to the nearest multiple of 5 of the amount or value of the consideration paid.
An agreement to transfer such shares which is or becomes unconditional will generally give rise to UK SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration paid, such UK SDRT generally being payable by the transferee or purchaser.
The liability to UK SDRT will generally be cancelled or any UK SDRT paid will be refunded if the agreement is completed by a duly stamped transfer within six years of either the date of the agreement or, if the agreement was conditional, the date when the agreement became unconditional.
A transfer of CSR ordinary shares on a paperless basis through CREST will generally be subject to UK SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration paid, which will be collected and accounted for to HM Revenue & Customs by CREST such UK SDRT generally being borne by the transferee or purchaser.
No UK stamp duty or UK SDRT will arise on a transfer of CSR ordinary shares into CREST provided that, in the case of UK SDRT, the transfer is not for money or moneys worth.
Generally, a gift of CSR ordinary shares or a transfer of such shares from a nominee to the beneficial owner will give rise to neither UK stamp duty nor UK SDRT.
The above statements are intended only as a general guide to the current UK stamp duty and UK SDRT position.
Transfers to certain categories of person are not liable to UK stamp duty or UK SDRT and transfers to others may be liable at a higher rate.
Risks Related to owning CSR ordinary shares and ADSs Wemay be treated as a PFIC.
As a non-US corporation owning substantial cash assets, there is an ongoing risk that we may be treated as a passive foreign investment company PFIC for US federal income tax purposes depending on the ratio of the value of our assets, including goodwill to our holdings of cash and liquid assets such as bank deposits and marketable securities.
A non-US corporation generally will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year in which 75% or more of its gross income is passive income, or 50% or more of the average value of its assets consists of passive assets generally, assets that generate passive income.
This determination is highly factual, and will depend on, among other things, our market valuation and future financial performance.
We believe we were not a PFIC for the taxable year ended in 28 December 2012, but if we were to be classified as a PFIC for any future taxable year, holders of ordinary shares or ADSs who are US taxpayers would be subject to adverse US federal income tax consequences.
Shareholders in countries other than the United Kingdom willsuffer dilution if they are unable to participate in future preemptive equity offerings.
Under English law, shareholders usually have pre-emptive rights to subscribe on a pro rata basis in the issuance of new shares for cash.
The exercise of pre-emptive rights by certain shareholders not resident in the United Kingdom may be restricted by applicable law or practice in the United Kingdom and overseas jurisdictions.
In particular, the exercise of pre-emptive rights by US shareholders would be prohibited unless that rights offering is registered under the US Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements of the US Securities Act applies.
Furthermore, under the Deposit Agreement for the ADSs, the Depositary Bank generally will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the US Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the US Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs.
If no exemption applies and we do not wish to register a rights offering, shareholders in the United States may not be able or permitted to exercise their pre-emptive rights.
We are also permitted under English law to disapply pre-emptive rights subject to the approval of our shareholders by special resolution and investor committee guidance on the limits of any such disapplication and thereby exclude certain shareholders, such as overseas shareholders, from participating in a rights offering usually to avoid a breach of local securities laws.
The rights of our shareholders willbe governed byEnglish law and differ from the rights of stockholders under US law.
Because we are a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, the rights of shareholders and, therefore, certain of the rights of holders of ADSs, will be governed by English law and by the Articles.
These rights differ from the typical rights of shareholders in US corporations.
For example, the rights of shareholders to bring proceedings against us or our directors or officers or generally on behalf of a class of shareholders or other claimants may be more limited under English law than under the corporate law and case law of US jurisdictions.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Other information Shareholders in countries other than the United Kingdom may have difficulty in effecting service of process on us or our directors in the US, in enforcing US judgments in the UKor in enforcing USsecurities lawsin the UKcourts.
Most of our directors and some of the experts named in this document are residents of countries other than the United States.
As a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders in countries other than the UK to effect service of process within the United States upon all of our directors and executive officers and some of the experts named in this document or on us, or to obtain discovery of relevant documents and or the testimony of witnesses.
Our shareholders in countries other than the UK may have difficulties enforcing, in courts outside the United States, judgments obtained in the US courts against any of our directors and some of the experts named in this document or us including actions under the civil liability provisions of the US securities laws.
Those shareholders may also have difficulty enforcing liabilitiesunder the US securities laws in legal actions originally brought in jurisdictions located outside the United States.
The market value of our ADSsand dividends may be adversely affected byfluctuations in the exchange rate between the USdollar and the pound sterling.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the US dollar and the pound sterling will affect the US dollar price of our ADSs and the market value of ordinary shares when expressed in US dollars.
If the relative value of sterling to the US dollar declines, the US dollar price of the ADSs and the US dollar equivalent of the price of ordinary shares traded on the London Stock Exchange will also decline.
We paid, and may in the future pay, cash dividends on the ordinary shares in sterling.
A decline in the relative value of sterling to the US dollar would also result in a decline in the US dollar value of these dividends.
The market price of our ordinary shares and ADSsisvolatile.
Stock markets in general have been recently experiencing significant price and volume volatility.
Technology stocks in particular have experienced wide fluctuations in prices, in some cases unrelated to the issuers operating performance.
Our ordinary shares and ADSs are subject to significant fluctuations due to many factors, including but not limited to fluctuations in results of operations, acquisitions, litigation, announcements of new products, product enhancements or technological advances by us or our competitors, changes in earnings estimates by market analysts, and general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries.
Our share price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market trends unrelated to our performance.
The market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs could be adversely affected by these factors and fluctuations.
Liquidity in the market for our securities may be adversely affected byour maintenance of two exchange listings.
Our ADSs are traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market and our ordinary shares are listed on the premium segment of the Official List and trade on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
This dual listing may dilute the liquidity of our securities in one or both markets.
Holders of our ADSsmay not have the same voting rights as the holders of ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise their right to vote.
Except as described in the Deposit Agreement, holders of ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights on an individual basis, and must instruct the Depositary Bank on how to vote the shares underlying their ADSs.
Because of this extra procedural step involved, the process for exercising voting rights could take longer for holders of ADSs than for holders of ordinary shares and, as a result, holders of ADSs may not be able to effectively exercise voting rights.
Property CSRs corporate headquarters is located on the Cambridge Business Park, Cambridge, England, where it occupies approximately 53,000 square feet under a lease expiring in September 2014.
CSR also leases property in the following areas, which serve as its research and development, sales and customer support and administration offices: Location Sq.
feet Lease Expiration Purpose Churchill House, Cambridge, England 53,000 September 2014 R&D, Sales and Administration St Johns House, Cambridge, England 33,100 September 2016 Administration Unit 400, Cambridge, England 24,100 September 2016 Not in use Selwyn House, Cambridge, England 7,000 April 2016 R&D Belfast, N Ireland 5,800 April 2020 R&D Manchester, England 3,373 September 2017 R&D Bristol, England 2,023 December 2014 R&D Phoenix, Arizona, USA 26,300 March 2013 R&D Phoenix, Arizona, USA 26,273 October 2019 R&D Santa Ana, California, USA 12,643 March 2015 R&D Detroit, Michigan, USA 9,400 July 2017 R&D Sunnyvale, California, USA 88,924 September 2016 R&D, Sales and Administration Burlington, Massachusetts, USA 54,736 August 2017 R&D, Sales and Administration Plano, Texas, USA 43,680 March 2015 Operations and Sales Plantation, Florida, USA 3,564 December 2013 Not in use Toronto, Canada 5,965 October 2014 Sublet Haifa, Israel 110,653 November 2016 Operations, R&D, Sales and Administration 156 157 www.
com Corporate and share information continued Location Sq.
feet Lease Expiration Purpose Ingolstadt, Germany 65,116 December 2021 R&D and Operations Freiburg, Germany 5,317 September 2017 R&D Bangalore, India 26,516 May 2013 R&D, Sales and Administration Bangalore, India 39,611 December 2015 R&D, Sales and Administration Noida, India 9,200 March 2014 R&D, Sales and Administration Shanghai, China 44,447 August 2014 R&D, Sales and Administration 1 Shenzhen, China 17,222 February 2015 R&D, Operations, Sales and Administration 2 Shenzhen, China 17,222 December 2014 R&D, Operations, Sales and Administration Beijing, China 1,952 October 2014 Customer Liaison Singapore 1,605 July 2014 Sales and Customer Support Gumi, South Korea 2,170 Rolling yearly contract Sales and Customer Support Seoul, South Korea 17,222 March 2017 Sales and Customer Support Tokyo, Japan 10,215 July 2017 Sales Chungli City, Taiwan 4,340 February 2015 Operations Taipei, Taiwan 32,087 January 2015 R&D, Sales and Administration Hsinchu, Taiwan 6,121 January 2015 Sales Salo, Finland 213 December 2013 Sales Unit 6A, No.
122, Zhenhua Road, Overseas Decoration Building, Shenzhen 2 Unit 5A, No.
122, Zhenhua Road, Overseas Decoration Building, Shenzhen CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Other information CSRsworldwideoffices Location Address Telephone Fax China Beijing Room 1108 East Tower, Twin Towers, B-12 Jian Guo Men Wai 86 10 5879 5670 86 10 5879 5670- Avenue, Chao Yang, Beijing 100022, China 618 China Shanghai Room 2801 King Tower, 28 Xinjinqiao Road, Pudong, Shanghai 86 21 2898 1600 86 21 3382 1173 201206, China China Shenzhen 5 F Block A, No.
122 Zhenhua Road, Overseas Decoration 86 755 8281 5777 86 755 8322 0889 Building, Shenzhen 518031, China Germany Freiburg Karlsruherstra.
3, 79108 Freiburg, Germany 49 761 6309 003 49 761 595 211 88 Germany Ingolstadt Marie Curie Strasse 1, 85055 Ingolstadt, Germany 49 841 9378 011 49 841 937 8010 India Bangalore 11th Floor, Tower C, IBC Knowledge 91 80 2518 3000 91 80 2518 3001 current office Park, # 4 1 Bannerghatta Main Road, Bangalore 560 029, India India Bangalore Etamin Block Building B-3, Prestige Technology Park, Amane 91 80 2518 3000 91 80 2518 3001 new office Bellandur Khane Village, Outer Ring Road, Bangalore East Taluk, Bangalore, India India Noida A 1-A, Sector 16, Noida, 201301 India 91 120 469 6000 91 120 251 0584 Israel Haifa Advanced Technology Center, Building #8 2, PO Box 15015, Haifa 972 4 854 5777 972 4 855 1550 31905, Israel Japan, Tokyo Holland Hills Mori Tower 3F, 5-11-2 Toranomon, Minato-Ku, Tokyo 81 3 6403 7100 81 6403 7101 105-0001, Japan South Korea Gumi 3rd Floor, Shinwon Building, 275-26 Hwangsang-Dong, Gumi-Si, 82 2 6444 2000 82 6444 2001 Gyungsangbuk-Do 730928, S Korea South Korea Seoul 3F, S Unit, H Square, 680 Sampyung-Dong, Bundang-Gu, 82 2 6444 2000 82 2 6444 2001 Seongnam, Gyunggi-Do, 463-400 Korea Singapore 101 Thomson Road #22-03, United Square, Singapore 307591 65 6827 0500 65 6354 4969 Taiwan Chungli 11 F 146 Jhongshan Road, Chungli City, Taoyuan 32041, Taiwan 886 3 4267000 886 3 4267001 Taiwna Hsinchu 11F-3, No.
99, Jing-Ye 1st Road, Taipei 10492, Taiwan 886 2 2175 9200 886 2 2175 9300 UK Belfast Unit2 Ground FloorSouth, The Legacy Building, Northern Ireland 44 2890 463140 44 2890 463141 Science Park, Queens Road, Queens Island, BelfastBT3 9DT, UK UK Bristol Bristol & Bath Science Park, Dirac Crescent, Emersons Green, 44 117 370 7700 no fax Bristol BS16 7FR, UK UK Cambridge Churchill House, Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road 44 1223 692000 44 1223 692001 Cambridge, CB4 OWZ, UK UK Cambridge St Johns House, St Johns Innovation Park, Cowley Road, 44 1223 692000 44 1223 692001 Cambridge, CB4 0ZT, UK UK Cambridge 2nd Floor, Selwyn House, Cambridge Business Park, Cowley 44 1223 692000 44 1223 692001 Road, Cambridge CB4 0WZ, UK UK Manchester 4th Floor Quay West, Trafford Wharf Road, Manchester M17 1PL, 44 161 772 1240 44 161 772 1260 UK USA Detroit 1740 Opdyke Court, Auburn Hills, Detroit, Michigan 48326, USA 1 248 409 1400 1 248 409 1401 USA Massachusetts One Wall Street, Burlington, Massachusetts 01803, USA 1 781 791 6000 1 781 791 6111 USA Phoenix 4940 East Beverly Road, Phoenix, Arizona 85044, USA 1 602 343 2600 1 602 343 2611 current office USA Phoenix Suite 119, 303 W Elliot Road, Tempe, Arizona 85284, USA new office USA Plano 2201 10th Street, Plano, Texas 75074, USA 1 972 673 1600 1 972 673 1815 USA Santa Ana 1231 East Dyer Road, Ste 200, Santa Ana, California 92705, USA 1 714 435 4900 1 714 435 4993 USA Sunnyvale 1390 Kifer Road, Sunnyvale, California 94086-5305, USA 1 408 523 6500 1 408 523 6501 158 159 www.
