62 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Accounting policies Year ended 31 March 2012 Basis of preparation The application of these standards and interpretations has had no The consolidated and Company financial statements are presented impact on the net assets, result and disclosures of the Group in the in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million year ended 31 March 2012. million except where otherwise indicated.
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards with an The consolidated financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc have effective date after the date of these accounts and interpretations: been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
The Company financial statements have International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classication and Measurement as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act effective from 1 January 2015 2006.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective from 1 provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to January 2013 publish its individual income statement and related notes.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective from 1 January 2013 IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities effective from 1 Having reviewed and taken into account Going Concern and January 2013 Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective from 1 January 2013 published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the IFRS 7 Amendments to IFRS 7: Disclosures Transfers of Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have Financial Assets effective 1 July 2011 adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
IAS 1 Amendments to IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in effective from 1 July 2012 preparing the financial statements.
See the Going Concern IAS 12 Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes - deferred tax: Statement on page 46 of the Directors Report.
recovery of underlying assets effective 1 January 2012 IAS 19 Amendments to IAS 19: Employee Benets effective from The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk 1 January 2013 of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements effective from 1 January and liabilities within the next financial year are i the measurement of 2013 the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets and ii the IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures effective measurement of dened benefit pension scheme assets and from 1 January 2013 obligations.
IAS 32 Amendments to IAS 32: Financial Instruments Presentation effective from 1 January 2014 i The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated.
The IFRIC assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface assets including intangible assets being principally brands.
This Mine effective from 1 January 2013 requires estimation of future cash ows and the selection of a Not yet endorsed by the EU.
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards ii Measurement of dened benefit pension obligations requires and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups estimation of future changes in ination, mortality rates, the expected financial statements in the period of initial application with the return on plan assets and the choice of a suitable discount rate.
exception of the amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benets.
The principal impact on the Group of the application of this standard will Further analysis of the key sources of estimation uncertainty and be the requirement to use the discount rate when calculating sensitivities are included in the relevant notes to the accounts.
expected returns on the asset component of pension cost.
We currently calculate expected returns based on return assumptions The key judgements made by management in the process of on the actual classes of asset held.
This change is likely to result in applying the Group accounting policies are those used to determine higher charges to the Consolidated Income Statement for the whether certain individual operating segments meet all of the pension interest cost.
There is no material impact on the reported aggregation criteria set out in IFRS 8 when aggregated for external pension liabilities each year end as the impact in the Consolidated reporting purposes.
Those segments that have been aggregated Income Statement is mitigated by an offsetting change in the and a description of the key judgements made in reaching that calculation of actuarial gains and losses in the Statement of conclusion are set out in Note 1 of the accounts.
Comprehensive Income namely the difference between actual and expected asset returns will increase.
Changes in accounting policies The following accounting standards and interpretations became Consolidation effective for the current reporting period: The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of Dairy Crest Group plc and its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 March each International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs year using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Revised and transactions, including unrealised profits and losses arising from Improvements to IFRS issued April 2010 intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC IFRIC 14 Amended Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the date Requirement.
on which control is transferred to the Group.
Subsidiaries continue IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments to be consolidated until the date that control ceases.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 63 Where the Group ceases to control a subsidiary, it i derecognizes operating in the manner intended by management.
Depreciation is the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: ii calculated to write off the cost less residual value of property, plant derecognizes the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest: iii and equipment, excluding freehold land, on a straight-line basis over derecognizes the cumulative translation differences on net assets the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: and borrowings designated as net investment hedges, previously recorded in other comprehensive income: iv recognizes the fair Freehold buildings: 25 years value of any investment or associate retained: v recognizes any Leasehold land and buildings: 25 years or, if shorter, the surplus or deficit in the consolidated income statement, and vi period of the lease reclassies the parents share of components previously recognized Ofce equipment: 4 to 6 years in other comprehensive income or retained earnings as appropriate.
Factory plant and equipment: 6 to 20 years Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not Vehicles: 4 to 10 years attributable, directly or indirectly, to the parent company and are presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
At impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that 31 March 2010, non-controlling interests represent the 20% interest the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If the carrying value in Wexford Creamery Limited not held by the Group.
exceeds the estimated recoverable value, the asset is written down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of plant and Interest in associates equipment is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell or value in The Groups investments in associates are accounted for under the use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are equity method of accounting.
Associates are entities over which the discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that Group exerts significant inuence.
The Company and its associates reects current market assessments of the time value of money and use consistent accounting policies.
The investment in associates is the risks specic to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate carried in the balance sheet at initial fair value plus post-acquisition largely independent cash ows, the recoverable amount is changes in the Groups share of net assets, less any impairment in determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
value and any distributions received.
The consolidated income Impairment losses are charged to the consolidated income statement reects the share of the post-tax results of associates.
Where there has been a change recognized directly in the associates other comprehensive income, the Group recognizes its An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable in other disposal or when no future economic benets are expected to arise comprehensive income.
from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in the consolidated income Foreign currency translation statement in the year that it is derecognized.
The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group plc and its United Kingdom UK subsidiaries is Sterling.
The Borrowing costs functional currency of St Hubert SAS, a subsidiary company Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction incorporated in France, is the Euro.
or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the functional cost of the respective assets.
currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into All other borrowing costs are recognized as an expense in the period Sterling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on they occur.
monetary items are taken to the income statement, except where recognized in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash ow Investments hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost being the fair value of consideration paid, less provisions for On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are impairment where appropriate.
translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of foreign subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at average rates of Business Combinations and Goodwill exchange for the year being an approximation of actual exchange Business combinations from 1 April 2010 are accounted for using rates.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the net the acquisition method previously used the purchase method.
The investment in foreign subsidiaries at year end exchange rates, less cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the exchange differences on borrowings, which finance or provide a consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, hedge against those undertakings are taken to a separate and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The component of equity as long as IFRS hedge accounting conditions choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value are met.
Exchange differences relating to foreign currency or at the proportionate share of acquirees identiable net assets is borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition costs foreign entity remain in equity until the disposal of the net investment, incurred are expensed to profit and loss.
at which time they are recognized in the consolidated income statement.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the cost of the acquisition see above less net identiable amounts of the assets Property, plant and equipment acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated combination.
Previously cost of goodwill was the excess of the cost depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost comprises the of the business combination over the Groups acquirers interest in purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of liabilities.
The numbers 64 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Accounting policies continued Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any Intangible assets generated internally comprise software accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment development expenditure.
Software development is carried at cost annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances less accumulated amortisation and is amortised over four to seven indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Internally generated intangible assets that are not yet available tested for impairment at the time of transition to IFRS and no for use are tested for impairment annually either individually or at the impairment was identied.
cash-generating unit level or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Goodwill recognized under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition to IFRS is stated at the net book value as at this date and is not Research and development subsequently amortised.
Expenditure on research is written off as incurred.
Development expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the recoverability of this expenditure can reasonably be assured as cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units expected to required by IAS 38: Intangible Assets.
benefit from the combinations synergies.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to Recoverable amount of non-current assets which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of loss is recognized.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash generating impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of recoverable unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the recoverable amount the asset is considered impaired and is written carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of the sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit unless the asset does not generate cash inows that are largely retained.
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
The Groups cash-generating units, for the purpose of considering Inventories goodwill, are Dairies previously Liquid Products and Customer Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Direct up to 31 March 2011, UK Spreads, St Hubert, MH Foods Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials on a first in first and Cheese.
These represent the lowest level at which goodwill is out basis, direct labour and a proportion of manufacturing monitored for management purposes and are no larger than the overheads based on normal operating capacity incurred in bringing Groups operating segments.
each product to its present location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 has been less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
charged against the merger reserve and will remain set off against reserves even if the related investment becomes impaired or the Trade and other receivables business sold.
Trade and other receivables are recognized and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
An The Group has not restated business combinations prior to the estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full transition date of 1 April 2004.
Acquisitions prior to this date are amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when recorded under previous accounting rules.
Intangible assets Assets in disposal groups classied as held for sale Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held for capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill if the fair value can sale only if available for immediate sale in their present condition: a be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future expected sale is highly probable: and expected to be completed within one economic benets ow to the Group.
Following initial recognition, the year from the date of classication.
Such assets are measured at the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are not accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either nite or indefinite.
Currently, all the Groups intangible assets have nite Cash and cash equivalents useful lives and are amortised over 3 to 25 years.
Acquired intangible Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and assets principally comprise acquired brands and they have useful short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
lives as follows: For the purposes of the Consolidated cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as dened above, net of bank overdrafts.
St Hubert 25 years Le Fleurier 15 years Interest bearing loans Vall 15 years All loans and borrowings are initially recognized at the fair value of FryLight 15 years the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognized in net profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognized.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 65 Net debt Company market conditions.
Any other conditions which are The Group and Company define net debt as cash and cash required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled equivalents, interest bearing loans and finance leases.
The to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
Like calculation of net debt excludes the fair value of derivative financial market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken instruments with the exception of cross currency swaps to x foreign into account in determining the grant date fair value.
currency debt in Sterling where they are designated as cash ow hedges.
In this case the xed Sterling debt, not the underlying The cost of equity settled transactions with employees is measured foreign currency debt retranslated, is included in net debt.
It includes by reference to the fair value and is recognized as an expense over any cash or borrowings included within disposal groups classied as the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant held for sale and excludes unamortised upfront facility fees.
employees became fully entitled to the award.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, Retirement benefit obligations representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and The asset or liability in respect of dened benefit schemes is the managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments present value of the relevant dened benefit obligation at the balance that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since sheet date less the fair value of plan assets and an adjustment for the previous balance sheet date is recognized in the income past service costs not yet vested.
The independent actuary statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
completes a full actuarial valuation of the Dairy Crest Group pension fund triennially.
The obligation is updated annually for financial No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately vest, reporting purposes by the actuary using the projected unit credit except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or method.
The present value of the obligation is determined by the non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of estimated future cash outows using interest rates of high quality whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, corporate bonds, which have terms to maturity approximating the provided that all other performance or service conditions are satisfied.
terms of the related liability.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled including when a The current service costs, settlement gains or losses and any non-vesting condition within the control of the entity or employee is curtailment gains are recognized in operating costs in the not met, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, consolidated income statement, classied as cost of sales, and any cost not yet recognized in the income statement for the distribution costs or administrative expenses depending upon which award is expensed immediately.
area of the business active members are employed in.
Past service costs are included in operating costs where the benets have Rights granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings over equity vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over the instruments of the Company are treated as an investment in the vesting period.
The expected return on assets of funded dened Companys balance sheet.
benefit schemes and the interest on pension scheme liabilities comprise the finance element of the pension cost and the difference Employees Share Ownership Plan ESOP between these amounts are included in other finance income or The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest ESOP Trust to costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience satisfy Long Term Incentive Share Plan awards are presented as a adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognized in deduction from equity in arriving at shareholders equity.
full and are charged or credited to other comprehensive income in Consideration received from the sale of such shares is also the period in which they arise.
recognized in equity with no gain or loss recognized in the consolidated income statement.
The recognition of any future retirement benefit surplus as calculated by the actuary as part of the annual update for reporting purposes, The Group and Company have not adopted the exemption to apply is limited to the present value, using an appropriate discount rate, of IFRS 2 Share-based payments only to awards made after 7 any real cash benefit the Company will obtain in the future through November 2002. cash net of taxes or costs on a winding up of the scheme.
In order to calculate the potential future benets, or to establish whether a Leased assets liability needs to be established under IFRIC 14, consideration is Assets acquired under finance leases, which transfer to the Group given to any minimum funding requirements agreed between the substantially all the risks and benets incidental to ownership of the Company and the Pension Trustee.
leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum Contributions to the Dairy Crest dened contribution pension lease payments.
The net present value of future lease rentals is scheme are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Any included as a liability on the balance sheet.
The interest element of contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as an lease rentals is charged to the consolidated income statement in the accrual at that date.
The Group has no further payment obligations year.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and once contributions have been paid.
benets of ownership of the asset are classied as operating leases.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated income Share based payments statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Equity based performance payments The Group and Company has issued equity-settled share based Revenue payment schemes for which they receive services from employees Revenue on sale of food and dairy products is recognized on in consideration for the equity instrument.
Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods based payment schemes are measured at fair value at the grant net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating date by an external valuer using an appropriate pricing model.
In sales within the Group.
valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service and performance vesting conditions, other than Dividend income is recognized when the Companys right to receive performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the payment is established.
The numbers 66 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Accounting policies continued Other income The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at Other income comprises the profit on disposal of closed sites and each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no household depots.
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred Exceptional items income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that Certain items are recorded separately in the consolidated income are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the statement as exceptional.
Only items of a material, one-off nature, liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been which result from a restructuring of the business or some other enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
event or circumstance are disclosed in this manner in order to give a better understanding of the underlying operational performance of The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at the Group.
The profits arising on disposal of closed sites, other than each balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities as a result of depot rationalisation, are reported within exceptional are offset only if a legal enforcement right exists to set off current tax items.
assets against current tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxation authority and that authority permits the group Government and other grants to make a single net payment.
Government grants are initially recognized at their fair value where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all Income tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income if it attaching conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to relates to items that are charged or credited to other comprehensive an expense item, it is recognized as income over the periods income.
Similarly, income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it relates to items that are credited or charged directly to equity.
it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, Otherwise income tax is recognized in the income statement.
the fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is released to the consolidated income statement over the expected Financial assets useful life of the relevant asset in equal annual instalments.
The Group and Company classies financial assets that are within the scope of IAS 39 as: Income tax t financial assets at fair value through profit and loss: Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount t loans and receivables: expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, t held-to-maturity investments: or based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively t available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
enacted at the balance sheet date.
The Group and Company determines the classication of financial Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities financial year-end.
When financial assets are recognized initially, they and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, except are measured at fair value.
The Group and Company currently hold as indicated below.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable Derivative instruments temporary differences except: The Group and Company use derivative financial instruments such t where the deferred income tax liability arises from initial as forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps and interest recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at foreign currency uctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit are initially recognized at fair value and subsequently re-measured to nor taxable profit or loss: and fair value at each balance sheet date.
t in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary similar maturity proles.
The fair value of interest rate swap and differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
cross-currency swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments and specic valuations performed by Deferred income tax assets are recognized for all deductible counterparties at the balance sheet date.
temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classied as will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, either: the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can t fair value hedges where they hedge the exposure to changes in be utilised except: the fair value of a recognized asset or liability: t where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible t cash ow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset ows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, a recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecast at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit transaction, or a rm commitment in relation to foreign exchange nor taxable profit or loss: and exposure: or t in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with t net investment hedges where they hedge the exposure to investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint variability in the translated net assets of an overseas operation.
ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the Neither the Group nor the Company has entered into any fair value foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against hedges during the year.
which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 67 Cash ow hedges In relation to cash ow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognized directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognized in the consolidated income statement.
When the hedged rm commitment in relation to foreign exchange exposure or the highly probable forecast transactions results in the recognition of a non-monetary asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognized, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognized in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash ow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognized in other comprehensive income are transferred to the consolidated income statement in the same year in which the hedged item affects the net profit and loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs, interest payments are made or when debt matures.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the consolidated income statement for the year.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Where the Group hedges net investments in overseas entities through currency borrowings, the gains and losses on retranslation of those borrowings are recognized in other comprehensive income.
If the Group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument, the effective portion of the hedge is recognized in other comprehensive income, with any ineffective portion being recognized in the consolidated income statement whenever applicable.
Gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are reclassied to the consolidated income statement on disposal of the foreign entity.
In order to satisfy hedge accounting, the Group or Company documents in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group or Company also documents and demonstrates an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge has been and will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
The effectiveness testing is re-performed on a regular basis being at least half-yearly to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognized in other comprehensive income is retained in other comprehensive income until the highly probable forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognized in other comprehensive income is transferred to the consolidated income statement for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
When the contracts are closely related and hedge accounting is adopted, they are designated at inception and treated as described above.
