SECTION 5 OTHER INFORMATION Shareholder information Registrar and transfer ofce Share dealing service All enquiries relating to shareholdings should be addressed to the We offer an internet and telephone share dealing service for Companys registrar, as follows: shareholders in certain jurisdictions in conjunction with Computershare, our registrars.
By Mail: Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Internet dealing: Bridgwater Road Commission is 0.5 per cent, subject to a minimum charge of Bristol BS99 6ZZ 15.00.
Stamp duty at 0.5 per cent is payable on purchases.
By phone: 44 0 870 707 1102 Up to 90 day limit orders available on shares.
co. uk Service is available to place orders out of market hours.
Please indicate that you are a shareholder of Kesa Electricals plc.
Investor Centre Telephone dealing: Investor Centre is a free, secure share management website Commission is 1 per cent, subject to a minimum charge of 15.00. provided by our registrars.
This service allows you to view your Stamp duty at 0.5 per cent is payable on purchases.
share portfolio and see the latest market prices of your shares, check your dividend payment and tax information, change your The share price at which you deal will be confirmed to you whilst address, update payment instructions and receive your shareholder you are still on the telephone.
To take advantage of this service, please log in at www.
co. uk and enter your Shareholder Service is available from 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday Reference Number and Company Code.
The information can be excluding bank holidays.
found on your last dividend voucher or share certicate.
Call 44 0 870 703 0084. Dividend mandates If you wish dividends to be paid directly into your bank account through No forms will need to be completed in advance and the settlement the BACSTEL-IP Bankers Automated Clearing Services system, you period is ten business days after your trade has been dealt in the should contact our registrars for a Dividend Mandate Form or apply market, for both internet and telephone share dealing.
information and copies of the terms and conditions of both these services can be obtained by calling 44 0 870 703 0119.
Electronic shareholder communications We have entered into an arrangement with our registrars whereby Gifting shares to your family or to charity shareholders are able to elect to receive shareholder communications To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, please from the Company electronically, rather than in paper format via the ask the registrars for a Gift Transfer Form.
If you only have a small postal system.
number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you may wish to consider donating them to ShareGift, the share We actively encourage shareholders to register now for our electronic donation charity registered charity number 1052686.
The relevant communications service through eTree campaign run by our registrars share transfer form may be obtained from the registrars.
Further in conjunction with The Woodland Trust.
When you register for electronic information about the scheme is available from the ShareGift internet communications, a tree will be planted on your behalf with the Woodland site www.
Trusts Tree For All scheme in a UK area selected for reforestation.
The service enables you to save paper, contributing to a greener countryside and reducing harmful carbon dioxide emissions which impact climate change.
In order to receive shareholder communications such as notices of shareholder meetings and Annual report and accounts electronically rather than by post, you should register your details via the Investor Centre information and services page of Kesa Electricals plc website www.
You can also register for electronic communications via www.
The results of Comet for these periods have been restated as discontinued operations following the sale of Comet during the year ended 30 April 2012.
In 2008, the Group moved its financial year end from 31 January to 30 April.
Proforma summary financial information for the 12 months to 30 April 2008 was published alongside the Group accounts in June 2008.
To facilitate understanding of the main business trends this is the information included in the table above.
This information was originally published in sterling.
The gures shown in the table above have been translated into euros at the average annual exchange rate profit and loss account and the closing 30 April exchange rate summary balance sheet.
The financial information for 2010 and 2009 was originally published in sterling.
Proforma summary nancials for the financial years ending 30 April 2010 and 30 April 2009 were published in September 2010 and this information is included in the table above.
The financial information for 2008 was originally published in sterling.
The gures shown in the table above have been translated into euros at the average annual exchange rate profit and loss account and closing 30 April exchange rate summary balance sheet.
Designed and produced by FTI Consulting www.
com Photography by Michael Heffernan and Bob Wheeler Printed at Cousin, ISO14001, FSC certied and is a carbon neutral company.
This has been printed on Revive 75 Silk paper.
The paper has been independently certied according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC and awarded NAPM Recycled Mark.
Kesa Electricals plc Registered address 22 24 Ely Place London EC1N 6TE 44 0 20 7269 1400 Registered in England Company number: 04232413 For information visit www.
