Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES COMPANY Basis of preparation Share based payments The Financial Statements of fide La Rue plc the Company have The Company operates various equity and cash settled option been prepared under the historical cost convention and have schemes although the majority of plans are settled by the issue been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 of shares.
The services received from employees are measured and applicable UK accounting standards.
by reference to the fair value of the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and recognised in the profit and loss Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company account, together with a corresponding increase in shareholders is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss funds, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an account.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Vesting in Financial Reporting Standard FRS 29 IFRS 7, Financial conditions, other than market conditions, are not taken into Instruments: Disclosures, not to prepare a financial instrument account when estimating the fair value.
FRS 20 has been applied note as the information is available in the published consolidated to share settled share options granted after 7 November 2002.
Financial Statements of the Group.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from the employees of its subsidiary undertakings these awards are preparing a Cash Flow Statement under the terms of FRS1, accounted for by the Company, as an additional investment in its Cash Flow Statements.
The costs are determined in accordance with FRS 20 The accounts have been prepared as at 31 March 2012, being share based payments.
Any payments made by the subsidiary the last Saturday in March.
The comparatives for the 2010 11 undertaking in respect of these arrangements are treated as a financial year are for the period ended 26 March 2011. return of this investment.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently Share based payments recharged to subsidiaries are recorded via the intercompany loan account.
in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Company Financial Statements.
Dividends Under FRS 21, final ordinary dividends payable to the shareholders Foreign currencies of the Company are recognised in the period that they are Amounts receivable from overseas subsidiaries which are approved by the shareholders.
Interim ordinary dividends are denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling recognised in the period that they are paid.
at the appropriate year end rates of exchange.
Exchange gains and losses on translating foreign currency amounts are included Taxation within the interest section of the profit and loss account except The charge for taxation is based on the result for the period for exchange gains and losses associated with hedging loans and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing that are taken to reserves.
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional and accounting purposes.
currency at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect individual transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items in foreign currencies are subsequently retranslated at the rate for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Such exchange reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Other receivables Financial guarantee contracts Other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to provision for impairment.
Trade and other receivables are guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and Investments accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats Investments are stated at cost or valuation in the Balance Sheet, the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as less provision for any permanent diminution in the value of the it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make investment.
Retirement benets The pension rights of the Company employees are dealt with through a self administered scheme, the assets of which are held independently of the Groups nances.
The scheme is a dened benefit scheme that is funded partly by contributions from members and partly by contributions from the Company and its subsidiaries at rates advised by independent professionally qualied actuaries.
In accordance with FRS 17, fide La Rue plc accounts for its contributions as though it were a dened contribution scheme.
This is because the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme cover the Company and a number of its subsidiaries and those assets and liabilities cannot be split between each subsidiary on a consistent and reasonable basis.
Full details of the scheme and its deficit measured on an IAS 19 basis can be found in note 22 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 91
