Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES fide La Rue plc the Company is a public limited company As described on page 24, the Group meets its funding incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address requirements through cash generated from operations and a of its registered ofce is disclosed on page 96 of this Annual revolving credit facility which expires in September 2013.
The consolidated Financial Statements of the Company Groups forecasts and projections, which cover a period of more for the period ended 31 March 2012 comprise the Company and than twelve months, taking into account reasonably possible its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups changes in normal trading performance, show that the Group interest in associates.
The Parent Company Financial Statements should be able to operate within its currently available facilities.
present information about the Company as a separate entity The Group has sufficient financial resources together with assets and not about its Group.
The principal activities of the Group are that are expected to generate cash ow in the normal course of described in note 1.
The principal accounting policies adopted in business.
As a consequence and notwithstanding the net liability the preparation of these consolidated Financial Statements are set position being reported in the consolidated balance sheet, which out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the has arisen due to the increase in the value of the deficit in the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
retirement benefit obligations, or the uncertainty as to the outcome of the paper production issues noted on page 7, the Directors Statement of compliance have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group European Union EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 requires are well placed to manage their business risks and to continue in that the consolidated Financial Statements, for the period ended operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the 31 March 2012, be prepared in accordance with International Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU the Annual Report and Accounts.
These consolidated Financial Statements have Basis of consolidation been approved by the Directors and prepared in accordance with The consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the Adopted IFRS including interpretations issued by the International Financial Statements of the Company and entities controlled Accounting Standards Board IASB.
by the Company its subsidiaries up to 31 March 2012.
Control The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company exists when the Company has the power to govern the financial Financial Statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that During the year a number of amendments to IFRS became are currently exercisable are taken into account.
The results effective and were adopted by the Group, none of which had a of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are material impact on the Groups net cash ows, financial position, included in the consolidated Financial Statements from the total comprehensive income or earnings per share.
A number of date that control commences or until the date that control ceases.
other new and amended IFRS were issued during the year which The majority of the subsidiaries prepare their Financial Statements do not become effective until after 1 April 2012, none of which up to 31 March except for certain subsidiaries whose year end are likely to have a material impact on the Group.
In the case of the subsidiaries whose Financial Statements are made up to 31 December 2011, results for Basis of preparation the period to 31 March 2012 and the balance sheet as at The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under 31 March 2012 have been consolidated.
the historical cost convention with the exception of certain items which are measured at fair value as disclosed in the accounting On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities policies below.
The accounts have been prepared as at 31 March of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of 2012, being the last Saturday in March.
The comparatives for the acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair 2010 11 financial year are for the period ended 26 March 2011. values of the identiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to fair values of the identiable net assets acquired ie discount affect its future development, performance and position are set out on acquisition is credited to the Income Statement in the period on pages 12 to 21 of the Business Review.
The accounting policies of acquisition.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the used in the preparation of the financial position are described in Financial Statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting pages 60 to 64.
In addition, pages 73 to 78 include the Groups policies used into line with those used by the Group.
objectives, policies and processes for financial risk management, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its All intra Group transactions, balances, income and expenses exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk and commodity pricing risk.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described on pages 22 to 24 of the Business Review.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 59 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED significant accounting policies and judgements applied Financial instruments Foreign currency The Groups operating activities expose it to financial risks of Foreign currency transactions changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
These Financial Statements are presented in sterling, which The Group uses a range of derivative instruments, including is the functional and presentational currency of the Company.
forward contracts and swaps to hedge its risk to changes in The functional currency of Group entities is principally determined foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative financial by the primary economic environment in which the respective instruments are only used for hedging purposes.
The use of entity operates.
financial derivatives is governed by the Groups risk management policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written Transactions in foreign currencies entered into by Group entities principles on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the are translated into the functional currencies of those entities at Groups risk management strategy.
the rates of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value at balance sheet date are translated at the rate of exchange ruling the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The are recognised in the Income Statement.
gain or loss on subsequent fair value measurement is recognised in the Income Statement unless the derivative qualies for hedge Foreign currency non monetary items measured in terms of accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends historical cost are translated at the rate of exchange at the date on the nature of the item being hedged.
Exchange differences on non monetary items are recognised in line with whether the gain or loss on the non Cash ow hedges monetary item itself is recognised in the Income Statement Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and are effective as hedges of future cash ows or in equity.
are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Amounts the Group enters into forward contracts refer to the accounting accumulated in equity are recycled to the Income Statement in the policy on derivative financial instruments below for details of period in which the hedged item also affects the Income Statement.
the Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
However, if the hedged item results in the recognition of a non financial asset or liability, the amounts accumulated in equity on Financial Statements of foreign operations the hedging instrument are transferred from equity and included Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
intangible assets, are translated at the exchange rate prevailing Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualies at average exchange rates which approximate to actual rates.
At that time, for forecast transactions, any Exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised in cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised the Groups translation reserve, which is a component of equity.
in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction When a foreign operation is sold, exchange differences that were occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, recorded in equity are recognised in the Income Statement as the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred part of the gain or loss on sale.
Changes in the fair value of derivative Exchange differences in respect of foreign operations that arose financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting before 27 March 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRS, are are recognised in the Income Statement as they arise.
presented as part of retained earnings, as permitted by IFRS 1.
Fair value hedges Net investment in foreign operations For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value of Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised rm commitment, financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable foreign operations are recognised in the translation reserve to to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in net the extent the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is income.
Gains or losses from remeasuring the derivative or, for non ineffective, such differences are recognised as finance income or derivatives, the foreign currency component of its carrying value, costs in the Income Statement.
Cumulative gains or losses in equity are recognised in net income.
arising since the date of transition to Adopted IFRS are taken to the Embedded derivatives Income Statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other non financial host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value.
Any unrealised gains or losses on such separated derivatives are reported in the Income Statement.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 60 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Revenue recognition Development costs Group revenue predominantly represents sales to external Expenditure incurred in the development of products or customers of manufactured products which fall within the Groups enhancements to existing product ranges is capitalised as ordinary trading activities.
This excludes VAT and other sales taxes.
an intangible asset only when the future economic benets expected to arise are deemed probable and the costs can be Revenue is recognised in the Income Statement to the extent reliably measured.
Development costs not meeting these criteria that it is probable that the economic benets associated with the are expensed in the Income Statement as incurred.
Capitalised transaction will ow into the Group and the amount can be reliably development costs are amortised on a straight line basis over measured.
In practice this means that revenue is recognised when their estimated useful economic lives once the product or goods are supplied to external customers in accordance with the enhancement is available for use.
Product research costs terms of sale.
are written off as incurred.
When goods are supplied, this is when the significant risks and Other intangible assets rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer.
Intangible assets purchased separately, such as software Revenues and costs on project based contracts are recognised by licences that do not form an integral part of related hardware, are reference to the stage of completion, based on the work performed capitalised at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment to date and the overall contract profitability.
The assessment of the losses.
Software intangibles are amortised on a straight line basis stage of completion is dependent on the nature of the contract over the shorter of their useful economic life or their licence period and is assessed by reference to reviews of work performed, at rates which vary between three and five years.
achievement of contractual milestones and costs incurred.
Distribution rights are capitalised at cost less accumulated Revenue on service based contracts is recognised as services amortisation and impairment losses and are amortised over their are provided.
useful economic lives as determined by the life of the products to which they relate.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, Property, plant and equipment which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or valuation, receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated provision assets net carrying amount.
Assets in the course of construction are included in property, plant and equipment on the basis Intangible assets of expenditure incurred at the balance sheet date.
All intangible assets, except goodwill, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
Goodwill No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Freehold and is not amortised and is stated at cost less any accumulated long leasehold buildings are depreciated over their estimated impairment losses.
useful economic lives of 50 years.
Other leasehold interests are depreciated over the lesser of the unexpired period of the lease Goodwill and 50 years.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value of consideration transferred in a business combination The Groups policy is to write off the cost or valuation of all other over the Groups share of the fair value of identiable assets, plant and equipment evenly over their estimated remaining useful liabilities and contingent liabilities of the business acquired life at rates which vary between eight per cent and 50 per cent at the date of acquisition.
The principal annual rate of depreciation used is 10 per cent on plant and machinery and on xtures and ttings.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any No depreciation is provided for assets in the course of construction.
At the date of acquisition, the goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose Depreciation methods, residual values and useful lives are of impairment testing and is tested annually for impairment and reviewed at least at each financial year end, taking into account when there are indications of impairment.
Any impairment loss commercial and technical obsolescence as well as normal wear is recognised immediately in the Income Statement and is not and tear, provision being made where the carrying value exceeds subsequently reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the business.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is presented in goodwill and goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates is presented in investments in associates.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as an asset.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 27 March 2004 the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 61 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Borrowing costs Associated companies Where borrowing costs are attributable to the acquisition, An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position construction or production of a qualifying asset, such costs to exercise significant inuence, but not control or joint control, are capitalised as part of the specic asset.
through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
significant inuence is presumed to exist when the Impairment Group holds between 20 and 50 per cent of the voting power of Financial assets another entity.
A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
A The Groups share of the results, assets and liabilities of associated financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence companies are included in these Financial Statements using the indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect equity method of accounting, except when classied as held on the estimated future cash ows of that asset.
The results are presented after interest, tax and non controlling interest.
Investments in associates are carried in the An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at Balance Sheet at cost as adjusted by the post acquisition changes amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying in the Groups share of net assets of the associate, less any amount and the present value of the estimated future cash ows impairment in the value of the individual investment.
Losses of the discounted at the original effective interest rate.
associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate are not Individually significant assets are tested for impairment on an recognised unless the Group has a legal or constructive obligation individual basis.
The remaining financial assets are assessed to fund those losses.
collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the All impairment losses are recognised in the Income Statement.
identiable net assets at the date of acquisition of the associate is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition Non financial assets below the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired The carrying amounts of the Groups non financial assets, other ie discount on acquisition is credited to the Income Statement than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each in the period of acquisition.
balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists then the assets Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill and intangible Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet ready for Groups interest in the associate.
Losses may provide evidence use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date.
of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment appropriate provision is made for impairment.
whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying Associated companies prepare their financial information as value may not be recoverable.
In addition, goodwill is tested at at 31 December.
Results for the period to 31 March and the least annually for impairment.
Impairment tests are performed Balance Sheet as at 31 March have been included in the for all Cash Generating Units CGUs to which goodwill has been consolidated statements.
allocated at the balance sheet date or whenever there is indication of impairment.
For all other intangible assets, an impairment test Leasing is performed whenever an indicator of impairment exists.
A lease is dened as an agreement whereby the lessor conveys to the lessee the right to use a specic asset for an agreed period An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the Income of time in return for a payment or a series of payments.
Statement for the amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, the latter being the higher of Leases are classied as finance leases whenever the terms of the the assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use and, in the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership case of goodwill, is not subsequently reversed.
In assessing value to the lessee.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as present value using a pre tax discount rate that reects current property, plant and equipment at an amount equal to the fair value market assessments of the time value of money and the risks of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of minimum lease specic to the asset for which the estimates of future cash ows payments at the inception of the lease, and then depreciated have not been adjusted.
over their useful economic lives.
Lease payments are apportioned For other intangible assets, at each balance sheet date an between repayment of capital and interest.
The capital element assessment is made to determine whether there is any indication of future lease payments is included in the Balance Sheet as that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods may no longer a liability.
Interest is charged to the Income Statement so as exist or has decreased.
Where such an indication exists, an to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the assets carrying of the liability.
value does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment Statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Benets loss had been recognised.
received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sublet under terms such that the rental income is less than the head lease rental cost, provision is made for the best estimate of unavoidable lease payments during the vacancy or on the anticipated future shortfall of sub lease income compared with the head lease expense.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 62 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Taxation Employment benets The tax expense included in the Income Statement comprises Pensions current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes.
on the taxable income for the year, including adjustments in The major schemes are dened benefit pension funds with assets respect of prior periods, using tax rates enacted or substantively held separately from the Group.
The cost of providing benets enacted by the balance sheet date.
under each scheme is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
Tax is recognised in the Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and it is recognised in equity.
curtailments are included in operating costs in the Group Income Statement.
Past service costs are similarly included where the Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, benets have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts line basis over the vesting period.
The expected return on assets of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the of funded dened benefit pension schemes and the imputed amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is measured interest on pension scheme liabilities are disclosed as retirement using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted benefit obligation finance income and retirement benefit obligation by the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply when finance expense respectively in the Income Statement.
the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Differences between the actual and expected return on assets, Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable changes in the retirement benefit obligation due to experience and temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised changes in actuarial assumptions are included in the statement of to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be comprehensive income in full in the period in which they arise.
available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary The liability recognised in respect of dened benefit pension plans difference arises from goodwill, not deductible for tax purposes, is the present value of the dened benefit obligation less the fair or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination value of the scheme assets, as determined by actuarial valuations of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither carried out at the balance sheet date.
the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
The Groups contributions to dened contribution plans are Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising charged to the Income Statement in the period to which the on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, contributions relate.
except where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal Share based payments of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary The Group operates various equity settled and cash settled option difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
For equity settled share options, the services received The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with all or part of the asset to be recovered.
a corresponding increase in shareholders equity, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the numbers of Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are only offset to the shares that are actually expected to vest, taking into account extent that there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax non market vesting conditions including service conditions.
assets and current tax liabilities, they relate to taxes levied by the Vesting conditions, other than non market based conditions, same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise an asset and settle a liability simultaneously.
For cash settled share options, the services received from employees are measured at the fair value of the liability for options Inventories outstanding and recognised in the consolidated Income Statement Inventories and work in progress are valued at the lower of on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The fair value cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a weighted of the liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at the average cost basis and comprises directly attributable purchase date of settlement with changes in fair value recognised in the and conversion costs, including direct labour and an allocation consolidated Income Statement.
of production overheads based on normal operating capacity that have been incurred in bringing those inventories to their present Share option schemes location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling The fide La Rue Employee Share Ownership Trust is a separately price less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
Liabilities of the trust are guaranteed by the Company and the assets of the Trust mainly comprise shares Cash and cash equivalents in the Company.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash held by the Group and short term deposits with an original maturity The own shares held by the Trust are shown as a reduction of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on in shareholders funds.
The shares will be held at historical rates demand and form part of the Groups cash management are until such time as they are disposed of.
Any profit or loss on the included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for disposal of own shares is treated as a movement in reserves the purpose of the Cash Flow Statement.
rather than as an Income Statement item.
Loans Provisions Interest bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, obligation in respect of a past event, it is probable that an outow interest bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and where difference between cost and redemption value being recognised the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on at the Directors best estimate of the amount required to settle an effective interest basis.
the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted where the time value of money is considered material.
Dividends Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year end are not recognised in the Financial Statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period that they are paid.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 63 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED New accounting standards and interpretations Key sources of estimation uncertainty The following revised and amended standard has been issued Impairment of assets but is not yet effective and therefore has not been adopted by The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other assets that the Group in these consolidated Financial Statements: have indefinite useful lives are impaired.
"Other assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances s !MENDMENT TO !3 %MPLOYEE ""ENElTS WHICH IS EFFECTIVE indicate that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. recoverable amount."
The recoverable amount of an asset or The amendment will result in net finance costs no longer including a cash generating unit is determined based on value in use the full effect of expected long term return on plan assets calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions The impact of this amendment on the Groups financial and estimates of future cash ows, discounted at suitable rates.
performance is still being assessed.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Critical accounting judgements and key sources The Group measures provisions at the Directors best estimate of estimation uncertainty of the amount required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet The Groups accounting policies are set out above.
Management date, discounted where the time value of money is considered is required to exercise significant judgement in the application of material.
These estimates take account of available information, these policies.
Areas which management believe require the most historical experience and the likelihood of different possible critical accounting judgements or which involve estimation are outcomes.
Both the amount and the maturity of these liabilities as follows: could be different from those estimated.
Pension obligations Critical accounting judgements in applying the Groups Pension costs within the Income Statement and the pension accounting policies obligations as stated in the Balance Sheet are both dependent Cash ow hedge accounting upon a number of assumptions chosen by management.
These The Group enters into forward contracts to hedge the risk include the expected long term rate of return on the relevant plan of movements in foreign exchange and interest rates.
These assets, the rate used to discount future liabilities, the expected contracts fall within the denition of derivative financial instruments longevity for current and future pensioners and estimates of and accordingly have to be recorded at fair value.
Accounting future rates of ination.
for these contracts as cash ow hedges allows, to the extent the hedges are effective, the change in values of the derivatives to The expected return on plan assets assumption is determined be recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated on a uniform basis, taking into consideration long term historical in equity.
In order to achieve cash ow hedge accounting it is returns, asset allocation and future estimates of long term necessary for the Group to determine, on an on going basis, investment returns.
The discount rate is the interest rate that whether a forecast transaction being hedged is highly probable should be used to determine the present value of estimated and whether the hedge is effective.
future cash outows expected to be required to settle the pension Exceptional items obligations.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the The Directors consider items of income and expenditure which Group considers the interest rates of high quality corporate bonds are both material by size and or by nature and non recurring that are denominated in the currency in which the benets will be should be disclosed separately in the financial statements so as paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms to help provide an indication of the Groups underlying business of the related pension liability.
See page 24 for details of the relative performance.
The Directors label these items collectively as sensitivity of the value of the scheme liabilities to changes in the exceptional items.
Determining which transactions are to be discount and ination rates.
considered exceptional in nature is often a subjective matter.
However, circumstances that the Directors believe would give rise to exceptional items for separate disclosure would include: gains or losses on the disposal of businesses other than those within the scope of IFRS 5, curtailments on dened benefit pension arrangements, restructuring of businesses and asset impairments.
All exceptional items are included on the appropriate Income Statement category to which they relate.
Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions and significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for those taxes.
The level of current and deferred tax recognised is dependent on subjective judgements as to the outcome of decisions to be made by the tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in which the Group operates.
It is necessary to consider which deferred tax assets should be recognised based on an assessment of the extent to which they are regarded as recoverable, which involves assessment of the future trading prospects of individual statutory entities.
The actual outcome may vary from that anticipated.
Where the final tax outcomes differ from the amounts initially recorded, there will be impacts upon income tax and deferred tax provisions and on the Income Statement in the period in which such determination is made.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 64
