Glossary Concessions Brands which are sold through our stores where the stock belongs to a third party concessionaire.
They are found chiefly in womenswear e. g. Wallis, Oasis, Warehouse and accessories e. g. Tripp luggage.
Core brands Brands designed and produced exclusively for Debenhams.
They include brands such as Collection, Mantaray, Maine New England and RedHerring.
They are found in all product categories.
Designers at Debenhams Exclusive diffusion ranges designed for Debenhams by leading international designers including Julien Macdonald, Jasper Conran and John Rocha.
Earnings per share EPS The profit for the year attributable to shareholders, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation.
Flagship store A large store, typically over 100,000 sq ft, in a major city.
They include Oxford Street and Westfield in London, Henry Street in Dublin, Birmingham, Liverpool and Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Footfall The number of people who visit our stores.
Free cash flow Cash generated from operations before exceptional items less net cash used in investing activities.
Gross margin Gross transaction value less the cost of goods sold, as a percentage of gross transaction value.
Gross transaction value Revenue excluding VAT on a gross basis before adjusting for concessions, consignments and staff discounts.
International brands Brands such as Levis, Ben Sherman, Clarins and Este Lauder for which Debenhams owns the stock.
Market share The percentage of the market or market segment that is being serviced by Debenhams.
For instance, if 100 T-shirts were sold a year in the UK and Debenhams sold ten of them, it would have 10% market share.
Multi-channel Multi-channel sales comprise those from online, mobile, instore ordering and click and collect.
We use online sales as a measure of the growth ofthe multi-channel business as it is the largest of these sales channels.
Own bought brands Brands for which Debenhams owns the stock.
They include core brands, Designers at Debenhams and international brands.
Uninvested core store A store which is neither new nor modernised.
All remaining uninvested core stores will be modernised by Christmas 2014.
130 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
