Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC 144 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 Our Business Shareholder Information Shareholder Information Financial Calendar Alternatively Computershare can be contacted at: Interim Management Statement 19 October 2012 Computershare Investor Services PLC 2012 Annual General Meeting 19 October 2012 The Pavilions Final Dividend Ex Div Date 7 November 2012 Bridgwater Road Final Dividend Record Date 9 November 2012 Bristol Dividend Payment Date 23 November 2012 BS99 6ZZ Annual General Meeting Registrar Shareholder Helpline for Dechra: 0870 889 4030 The 2012 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 10.00 am on 19 October 2012 at Investec Bank plc, Please have your Shareholder Reference Number to hand 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP.
The notice of meeting, whenever you contact the Registrar: this can be found on your which includes special business to be transacted at the Annual share certificate.
General Meeting, is included within the Circular accompanying this Annual Report, together with an explanation of the Share Dealing Service resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
Computershare offer a Share Dealing service, to buy or sell shares.
Further information can be obtained from Company Website www-uk.
com sharedealingcentre or by The Dechra website www.
com is the best source telephoning 0870 703 0084. of useful and up-to-date information about Dechra and its activities, including the latest news, financial and product Telephone Internet information to help improve understanding of our business.
Share Share Additionally, the terms of reference of all our committees, Dealing Dealing articles of association, our Values and a number of our internal Fee on value of transaction 1% 0.5% policies are published on the website.
Minimum Charge 25.00 15.00 Stamp Duty Charge Purchases only 0.5% 0.5% Computershare Investor Services PLC and its agents are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Please note that the price of shares can go down as well as up, and you are not guaranteed to get back the amount you originally invested.
If you are in any doubt you should contact an independent financial adviser.
Visit us at our website www.
com Warning to Shareholders Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of Registrar the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless Dechras Registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC.
or non-existent, or an inflated price for shares they own.
During the year we were alerted by some of our Shareholders to cold Computershare should be contacted for any matters relating to calls which they had received.
The callers purport to represent your shareholding, including: various entities, including Drexel-Bearns, a US based firm.
The callers stated that they were seeking to gain control of investor Notification of change in name and address: shareholdings held in the Company and or personal financial Enquiries about dividend payments: information.
We believe these are boiler room scams.
Submission of proxy form for voting at the Annual General Meeting.
These types of calls are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders.
These operations are commonly Computershare offers a facility whereby Shareholders are able known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent to access their shareholdings in Dechra and other companies and extremely persuasive.
While high profits are promised, for which Computershare acts as registrar via their website those who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose their www-uk.
The Financial Services Authority FSA has found 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 www.
com Stock Code: DPH Shareholder Information continued most share fraud victims are experienced investors who lose an If you are approached about a share scam you should average of 20,000, with around 20 million lost in the UK each year.
tell the FSA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you can find out about the Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, latest investment scams.
You can also call the Consumer Helpline offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should a premium price for shares you own, or free company or research contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. reports, you should take these steps before handing over any money: Protecting your Identity Suggestions for safeguarding your shares: Get the name of the person and organisation contacting you: Check the FSA Register at www.
uk fsaregister ensure all your share certificates are kept in a safe place or to ensure they are authorised: hold your shares electronically in CREST via a nominee: Use the details on the FSA Register to contact the firm: keep all correspondence relating to your shares in a safe Call the FSA Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234 if there are no place or destroy the correspondence by shredding: contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date: notify the Registrar of a change of address in writing or via Search the FSA list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid their website as detailed above : doing business with them: and consider having your dividend paid directly into your bank Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
account to eliminate the risk of a lost dividend cheque: notify the Registrar of bank account detail changes in writing If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other or via their website: investments, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman if you decide to sell or buy shares use only brokers registered Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme if things go in the UK or your own country.
Advisers Auditor Registrars Principal Bankers continued KPMG Audit Plc Computershare Investor Services PLC Barclays Bank PLC One Snowhill PO Box 82 One Snowhill Snow Hill Queensway The Pavilions Snow Hill Queensway Birmingham Bridgwater Road Birmingham B4 6GH Bristol B3 2WN BS13 8AE Stockbroker & Financial Advisers Svenska Handelsbanken AB PUBL Investec Bank plc Financial PR Island Reach 2 Gresham Street TooleyStreet Communications Festival Way London Regency Court Stoke-on-Trent EC2V 7QP 68 Caroline Street ST1 5SW Birmingham Lawyers B3 1UG HSBC Bank Plc DLA Piper UK LLP Midlands Corporate Banking Centre Victoria Square House Principal Bankers 4th Floor Victoria Square Lloyds TSB Bank plc 120 Edmund Street Birmingham 2nd Floor Birmingham B2 4DL 125 Colmore Row B3 2QZ Birmingham B3 3SF Trademarks Trademarks appear throughout this document in italics.
Dechra and the Dechra D logo are registered trademarks of Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC.
The Malaseb trademark is used under licence from Dermacare-Vet Pty.
Ltd. 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 Shareholder Directors Report Directors Report Information Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 www.
com Dechra House Jamage Industrial Estate Talke Pits, Stoke-on-Trent Staffordshire, ST7 1XW England T: 44 0 1782 771100 F: 44 0 1782 773366 E: corporate.
com Registered in England No.
