Shareholder information If you have sold or transferred all of your holding of ordinary shares, you should pass this document and the accompanying form of proxy to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Financial calendar 18 April 2013 Annual General Meeting 3 May 2013 Final Dividend Paid 31 July 2013 Half Year Results and Interim Dividend Announced October 2013 Interim Dividend Paid 31 December 2013 Financial Year End February 2014 2013 Results and Proposed Final Dividend Announced Dividends The final dividend will be paid on 3 May 2013 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 2 April 2013. Dividend mandates Shareholders wishing dividends to be paid directly into a bank or building society account should apply online at www.
co. uk or, alternatively, contact the registrar for a dividend mandate form at the address below.
Dividends paid in this way will be paid through the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan Dividends are normally paid twice a year in May and October.
We offer shareholders the opportunity to join the Computershare regulated Dividend Reinvestment Plan the Plan, which allows you to reinvest your cash dividend in Devro plc ordinary shares.
If you wish to participate in the Plan, please apply online at www.
co. uk or, alternatively, you can complete a mandate form and return it to the registrar.
If you do not have a mandate form, please contact our registrar at the address below.
Payment of dividends in foreign currency The companys registrar offers a Global Payment Service, which allows you to receive your dividends directly into your bank account in your local currency.
Interested parties can view terms and register at www.
co. uk or contact the registrar at the address below.
Half year results Any shareholder wishing to receive a paper copy of the Interim Report and Results for the six months to 30 June 2013 should contact the Company Secretary.
Shareholder enquiries For all share registration and dividend For other shareholder enquiries contact: mandate enquiries contact: The Registrar Company Secretary Computershare Investor Services PLC Devro plc The Pavilions Moodiesburn Bridgwater Road Chryston Bristol G69 0JE BS99 6ZZ Telephone 0870 889 4050 Telephone 01236 879191 Website www.
co. uk Investor Centre is a free, secure share management website provided by Computershare.
This service allows you to view your share portfolio and see the latest market price of your shares, check your dividend payment and tax information, change your address, update payment instructions and receive your shareholder communications online.
To take advantage of this service, please register at www.
To register you will be required to enter Devro as the name of the company in which you hold shares, your Shareholder Reference Number SRN which can be found on your share certificate or on your dividend tax voucher, your postcode or country if outside of the UK or Channel Islands and security code provided on screen.
For security purposes, Computershare will send a unique activation code to your registered address to complete registration.
Website The company has a website www.
com which provides up-to-date information on the company and its products.
94 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
