Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-second Annual General i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as MAY BE PRACTICABLE TO THEIR EXISTING HOLDINGS AND Meeting AGM of Devro plc the company will be held at The Marriott Hotel, 500 Argyle Street, Glasgow G3 8RR on 18 April 2013 at 11.00 am for the following purposes: ii to holders of other equity securities as dened in section 560 1 of the Act as required by the rights 1 To receive the companys accounts for the year ended of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the 31 December 2012, together with the Directors Report directors otherwise consider necessary, and the Auditors Report on those accounts.
and so that the directors may impose any limits or 2 To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December restrictions and make any arrangements which they 2012. consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, 3 To re-elect as a director Mr Steve Hannam.
regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter, 4 To re-elect as a director Mr Peter Page.
such authorities to apply unless previously renewed, varied or 5 To re-elect as a director Ms Jane Lodge.
revoked by the company in general meeting until the end of the companys next annual general meeting after this resolution is 6 To re-elect as a director Mr Paul Neep.
passed or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2014 but, in each case, so that the company may make offers and enter 7 To re-elect as a director Mr Simon Webb.
into agreements before the authority expires which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or to convert 8 To re-elect as a director Mr Paul Withers.
any security into shares to be granted after the authority expires and the directors may allot shares or grant such rights under any such In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
directors mentioned above will all offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
12 THAT the Devro plc Performance Share Plan, the principal features of which are summarised on page 88 to 90, be and 9 To re-appoint  LLP as the companys it is hereby approved and adopted, and the Board be and auditors to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next annual is hereby authorised to do all acts and things which it may general meeting of the company and to authorise the directors consider necessary or desirable to carry the same into effect.
Special resolutions To consider and, if thought t, pass the following resolutions of 13 THAT, in substitution for all existing powers and subject to the which Resolutions 10, 11 and 12 will be proposed as ordinary passing of resolution 11, the directors be generally empowered resolutions and Resolutions 13, 14, 15 and 16 will be proposed as pursuant to section 570 of the Act to allot equity securities special resolutions: as dened in section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority granted by resolution 11 and or where the allotment RDINARY RESOLUTIONS constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 10 THAT the Remuneration Report contained within the 560 3 of the Act, in each case free of the restriction in section companys Report and Accounts for the year ended 561 of the Act, such power to be limited: 31 December 2012 be and is hereby approved.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an 11 THAT, in substitution for all existing authorities, the directors be offer of equity securities but in the case of an allotment generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph b of section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise resolution 11, such power shall be limited to the allotment all the powers of the company to: of equity securities in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue only : a allot shares as dened in section 540 of the Act in the company or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as security into shares in the company up to an aggregate MAY BE PRACTICABLE TO THEIR EXISTING HOLDINGS AND NOMINAL AMOUNT OF a AND ii to holders of other equity securities as dened in b allot equity securities as dened in section 560 of the Act section 560 1 of the Act, as required by the rights up to an aggregate nominal amount of 11,000,000 such of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the amount to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount directors otherwise consider necessary, of shares allotted or rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the company granted under and so that the directors may impose any limits or paragraph a of this resolution 11 in connection with an restrictions and make any arrangements which they offer by way of rights issue: consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, ANY TERRITORY OR ANY OTHER MATTER AND 91 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notice of meeting continued b to the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the 16 THAT the Articles of Association of the company be amended by the insertion of a denition of electronic communication and authority granted by paragraph a of resolution 11 and or an allotment which constitutes an allotment of equity a new Article 106 in substitution for and to the exclusion of the securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the Act in each existing Article 106 in the form produced to the meeting and case otherwise than in the circumstances set out in initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identication.
paragraph a of this resolution 13 up to a nominal amount of 825,000, By order of the Board such power to apply unless previously renewed, varied or John Meredith, revoked by the company in general meeting until the end of Company Secretary the companys next annual general meeting after this resolution Devro plc is passed or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June Moodiesburn 2014 but so that the company may make offers and enter into 14 March 2013 agreements before the power expires which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power expires Notes and the directors may allot equity securities under any such offer 1.
A member of the company is entitled to appoint a proxy to or agreement as if the power had not expired.
exercise all or any of his her rights to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting of the company.
A member may appoint 14 THAT the company be and is hereby generally and more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning different share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need of section 693 4 of the Act on the London Stock Exchange of not be a member of the company but must attend the meeting ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the company in person.
A proxy form which may be used to make such Ordinary Shares provided that: appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 16,500,000 2.
To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy, together with representing less than 10% of the issued ordinary share the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which capital of the company as at 1 March 2013 which is the it is signed or a notarially certied copy of such power or LATEST PRACTICABLE DATE BEFORE PUBLICATION OF THIS NOTICE authority must be deposited at the ofce of the companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY, not later than 11.00 am on PAID FOR AN RDINARY 3HARE IS PENCE BEING THE PAR VALUE 16 April 2013.
Completion and return of a form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending or voting in person at the c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may AGM, if they wish to do so.
be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to not more than 5% above the average of the middle market 3.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from The nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, business days immediately preceding the date on which under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by THAT RDINARY 3HARE IS PURCHASED whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
d unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right company in general meeting, the authority hereby or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such conferred shall expire at the end of the companys next agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder annual general meeting after this resolution is passed or, if as to the exercise of voting rights.
EARLIER AT THE CLOSE OF BUSINESS ON UNE AND 4.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the e the company may make a contract or contracts to appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not purchase Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such company.
authority, and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of 15 THAT a general meeting of the company, other than an annual the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an general meeting of the company, may be called on not less than individual member provided they do not do so in relation to the 14 clear days notice, provided that this authority expires at the same shares.
conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company after the date of passing this resolution.
92 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information 6.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the 9.
The following documents are available for inspection at the companys registered ofce, Gartferry Road, Moodiesburn, purpose of the determination by the company of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the register of Chryston, G69 0JE and at the ofces of Clifford Chance LLP, members of the company at 6.00 pm on 16 April 2013 or, in 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ during usual business the event of any adjournment, on the date which is 48 hours hours, and will also be available at the place of the AGM from excluding any part of a day that is not a working day before 10.00 am until the close of the meeting: the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members of the company after the relevant deadline shall be A COPIES OF ALL SERVICE CONTRACTS OF THE %XECUTIVE $IRECTORS disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
b copies of all appointment letters of the Non-Executive $IRECTORS AND 7.
Under section 527 of the Act members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require c a copy of the companys current Articles of Association the company to publish on a website a statement setting out under article 135 of which the directors have the benefit any matter relating to: i the audit of the companys accounts of a qualifying third party indemnity provision for the including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit purposes of sections 232, 234 and 236 of the Act and THAT ARE TO BE LAID BEFORE THE MEETING OR II ANY CIRCUMSTANCE a copy marked to show the changes being proposed in connected with an auditor of the company ceasing to hold resolution 16. ofce since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the 10.
At 1 March 2013 being the latest practicable date prior to Act.
The company may not require the shareholders requesting the publication of this notice the issued share capital of the any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying company consists of 165,633,564 ordinary shares, carrying with section 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the company is one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the required to place a statement on a website under section 527 company as at 1 March 2013 are 165,633,564. of the Act, it must forward the statement to the companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement 11.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section available on the website.
The business which may be dealt 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
with at the meeting includes any statement that the company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
Any member of the company attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparations for the meeting or involve the disclosure of condential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
93 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
