Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Explanatory notes to AGM notice The AGM of the company will be held on 18 April 2013 at 11.00 am OTHER SIMILAR SHARE ISSUE AND III FOR CASH UP TO AN AGGREGATE nominal value of 825,000 which represents slightly less than 5% at The Marriott Hotel, 500 Argyle Street, Glasgow G3 8RR.
The Notice of Meeting is set out on pages 91 to 93.
In addition to the of the issued ordinary share capital of the company as at 1 March ordinary business of the meeting under items 1 to 9, shareholders 2013, which is the latest practicable date before publication of this will be asked for their approval of the following matters: notice.
This authority will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the company and 30 June 2014.
TEM 2EMUNERATION 2EPORT Shareholders will be invited to approve the Remuneration Report set The authorities sought and the limits set by the resolution will also out on pages 30 to 38. disapply the application of section 561 of the Act from a sale of treasury shares to the extent also specified in this resolution.
TEM !LLOTMENT OF NEW SHARES This resolution is to renew, for a further year, the general authority to In accordance with the guidelines issued by the Pre-Emption Group, allot shares given to the directors at the last AGM of the company the Board confirms its intention that no more than 7.5% of the held on 19 April 2012.
Paragraph a of the resolution will give the issued share capital will be issued for cash on a non-pre-emptive directors a general authority to allot up to 55,000,000 ordinary basis during any rolling three year period.
shares of 10 pence each, representing approximately one third of the companys issued ordinary share capital excluding any shares TEM !UTHORISING MARKET PURCHASE OF ITS OWN SHARES BY THE held in treasury as at 1 March 2013, which is the latest practicable company date before publication of this notice.
The company did not hold any The authority for the company to purchase its own ordinary shares of its own shares as treasury shares as at 1 March 2013. of 10 pence each granted at last years AGM will expire on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
The directors wish to renew this authority Paragraph b of the resolution proposes that a further authority be and a special resolution will be proposed as special business to give conferred on the directors to allot unissued shares or rights to the company the authority to purchase its own ordinary shares in the subscribe for shares in favour of holders of equity securities which market as permitted by the Act.
The authority limits the number of would include ordinary shareholders as required by the rights of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 16,500,000 those securities or as the directors may otherwise consider representing less than 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of necessary, up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of the company as at 1 March 2013, which is the latest practicable 11,000,000 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount date before publication of this notice and sets minimum and of any shares or rights to subscribe for shares issued under the maximum prices.
This authority will expire at the earlier of the authority conferred by paragraph a of this resolution, which conclusion of the next AGM of the company and 30 June 2014. represents an amount which is approximately two thirds of the aggregate nominal value of the issued and unconditionally allotted Although the directors have no present intention of exercising the ordinary share capital of the company as at 1 March 2013, which authority to purchase the companys ordinary shares, they consider is the latest practicable date before publication of this notice.
that it is in the best interests of the company to have available this authorisation, in case of circumstances when it would be This resolution complies with the latest institutional guidelines issued appropriate to use it.
They would only use it when satisfied that this by the Association of British Insurers ABI and, if the directors do would result in an increase in earnings per share and was in the best exercise the authority conferred by paragraph b of this resolution, interests of shareholders generally.
they intend to follow emerging best practice as regards its use including as regards the requirement for directors to stand for Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority may either re-election as recommended by the ABI.
Other than in relation to be held as treasury shares or cancelled by the company, depending the companys employee share plans, the directors have no present on which course of action is considered by the directors to be in the intention to use these authorities, which will expire at the earlier of best interests of shareholders at the time.
the conclusion of the next AGM of the company and 30 June 2014.
As is normal practice, the directors intend to seek renewal of these As at 1 March 2013, there were share scheme awards over authorities at subsequent AGMs.
2,124,692 ordinary shares in the capital of the company, which represents 1.3% of the companys issued ordinary share capital.
TEM !DOPTION OF A NEW INCENTIVE PLAN If the authority to purchase the companys ordinary shares were This resolution is to approve a new long term incentive plan, the exercised in full, these awards would represent 1.4% of the Devro plc Performance Share Plan.
A summary of the principal companys issued ordinary share capital.
As at 1 March 2013, the terms is on pages 88 to 90. company did not hold any treasury shares in the company and no warrants over ordinary shares in the capital of the company existed.
TEM 0RE EMPTION RIGHTS Resolution 13, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks TEM 'ENERAL MEETING NOTICE to renew the authority conferred on the directors at the last AGM to Changes made to the Act by the Shareholders Rights Regulations issue equity securities of the company for cash without application of increased the notice period required for general meetings of the the pre-emption rights as provided by section 561 of the Companies company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice Act 2006 the Act.
The authorities being sought provide for period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days, and non-pre-emptive allotments of equity securities i to ordinary certain requirements are satisfied.
AGMs will continue to be held on SHAREHOLDERS IN PROPORTION TO THEIR EXISTING SHAREHOLDINGS II TO at least 21 clear days notice.
holders of other equity securities as required by, or subject to as the directors consider necessary, the rights of those securities, and to Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements and legal and on 3 August 2009, the company was able to call general meetings practical problems in any territory, for example on a rights issue or other than AGMs on 14 clear days notice without obtaining such 87 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Explanatory notes to AGM notice continued shareholder approval.
At the last AGM, the shareholders approved a No payment is required for the grant of an award.
Awards are not transferable, except on death.
notice period of not less than 14 clear days other than for AGMs effective until the forthcoming AGM.
The directors believe it is in the best interests of shareholders to preserve this ability and resolution Individual limit 15, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks such An employee may not receive awards in any financial year over approval.
The approval will be effective until the companys next Shares having a market value in excess of 150% of his annual base AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
salary in that financial year.
It is intended that this flexibility will only be used for non-routine In exceptional circumstances such as in relation to the recruitment or business and where merited in the interests of shareholders generally.
retention of an employee, this limit may be increased to 200% of an employees annual base salary.
It should also be noted that in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the company must make Market value options option price a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for that If market value options are granted, the price per Share payable upon meeting.
exercise of an option will not be less than: TEM !MENDMENT TO !RTICLES OF !SSOCIATION a the middle market price of a Share on the London Stock Resolution 16, which will be proposed as a special resolution, is to Exchange on the dealing day immediately before the date of grant amend the Articles of Association of the company to include an OR AN AVERAGE OF DEALING DAYS IF THE #OMMITTEE SO DECIDES AND express provision that the directors may signify their agreement to written board resolutions electronically.
b if the option relates only to new issue Shares, the nominal value of a Share.
Whilst the current Article 106 does not expressly prevent electronic execution or approval of written board resolutions, the directors Performance conditions believe that it is in the best interests of the company to amend the The vesting of awards will be subject to performance conditions set Articles of Association to include an express right for the Board to do by the Committee.
this in order to clarify the position given the increasing prevalence of electronic communication.
This would maximise flexibility in the way The initial awards will be subject to two performance conditions.
One that directors can agree to written resolutions.
Accordingly, it is half of an initial award will be subject to a performance condition proposed that Article 106 is amended to permit the directors to pass based on earnings per share EPS growth over a performance written board resolutions by electronic means.
period of three financial years.
This half of an initial award will not vest unless average annual EPS growth over the performance period is at Summary of the principal terms of the Devro plc Performance least 6%.
Details of the vesting schedule for this half of an initial award Share Plan the Plan are as follows: PERATION Percentage of one half of The Executive Directors Remuneration Committee of the board of an award that vests directors of the company the Committee will supervise the i. e. expressed as a operation of the Plan.
percentage of one half of the Average EPS growth over total number of Shares Eligibility the performance period originally subject to the award Any employee including an executive director of the company and its subsidiaries will be eligible to participate in the Plan at the discretion of Less than 6% per annum 0% the Committee.
6% per annum 25% Between 6% per annum and On a straight-line basis between Grant of awards 14% per annum 25% and 100% The Committee may grant awards to acquire ordinary shares in the company Shares within six weeks following the companys 14% per annum or more 100% announcement of its results for any period.
The Committee may also grant awards within six weeks of shareholder approval of the Plan or at any other time when the Committee considers there are The other half of an initial award will be subject to a performance exceptional circumstances which justify the granting of awards.
condition based on the companys total shareholder return TSR It is intended that the first awards will be made shortly following performance over a performance period of three financial years relative shareholder approval of the Plan.
to the TSR performance of a comparator group of companies comprising 100 FTSE listed companies, being the 50 companies The Committee may grant awards as conditional shares, nil or ranked by market value in the FTSE All Share Index above the nominal cost options or as market value options.
The Committee company and the 50 companies ranked below the company may also decide to grant cash-based awards of an equivalent value excluding investment trusts at the start of the performance period.
to share-based awards or to satisfy share-based awards in cash, This half of an initial award will not vest unless the companys TSR although it does not currently intend to do so.
performance over the performance period ranks at least at the median.
An award may not be granted more than 10 years after shareholder approval of the Plan.
88 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Details of the vesting schedule for this half of an initial award are as of employment, although the Committee can decide not to pro-rate an award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the particular follows: circumstances.
Percentage of one half of If a participant ceases to be an employee or director in the an award that vests companys group for one of the good leaver reasons specified i. e. expressed as a above, the Committee can decide that his award will vest on the TSR ranking of the company percentage of one half of the date of cessation of employment or office, subject to i the extent to against the comparator group total number of Shares which the performance conditions have been satisfied by reference over the performance period originally subject to the award TO THE DATE OF CESSATION AND II THE PRO RATING OF THE AWARD BY Below median 0% reference to the time of cessation as described above.
Median 25% If a participant ceases to be an employee or director in the Between median and upper On a straight-line basis between companys group because of his death, then his award will normally quartile 25% and 100% vest on his death on a similar basis as would apply in the case of good leavers as described above.
Upper quartile or above 100% Awards structured as options will be exercisable for a period of The Committee can set different performance conditions from those 12 months from the date of vesting.
Any options which have already described above for future awards provided that, in the reasonable vested but which have not been exercised on the date of cessation opinion of the Committee, the new targets are not materially less of employment will be exercisable for 12 months from the date of challenging in the circumstances than those described above.
The Committee may also vary the performance conditions applying Corporate events to existing awards if an event has occurred which causes the In the event of a takeover or winding up of the company not being Committee to consider that it would be appropriate to amend the an internal corporate reorganisation all awards will vest early subject performance conditions, provided the Committee acts fairly and to: i the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied reasonably in making the variation and considers the varied AT THAT TIME AND II THE PRO RATING OF THE AWARDS TO REFLECT THE conditions are fair and reasonable and not materially less challenging reduced period of time between their grant and vesting, although than the original conditions would have been but for the event in the Committee can decide not to pro-rate an award if it regards it question.
as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
Vesting of awards In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation awards may be Awards normally vest three years after grant or such other period as replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in a new holding specified at grant to the extent that the applicable performance company unless the Committee decides that awards should vest conditions see above have been satisfied and provided the on the basis which would apply in the case of a takeover.
participant is still employed in the companys group.
Options are then exercisable up until one day before the tenth anniversary of If a demerger, special dividend or other similar event is proposed grant unless they lapse earlier.
which, in the opinion of the Committee, would affect the market price of Shares to a material extent, then the Committee may decide Dividend equivalents that awards will vest on the basis which would apply in the case of The Committee may decide on or before grant that participants will a takeover as described above.
receive a payment in cash and or Shares on or shortly following the transfer of Shares in satisfaction of their award of an amount Clawback equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on those The Committee may decide at any time within three years of the Shares between the time when the awards were granted and the date of vesting of an award that a participant will be subject to time when they vest.
This amount may assume the reinvestment of clawback which is the recovery of any additional value that should dividends.
Alternatively, participants may have their awards not have been paid in circumstances where there has been i a increased as if dividends were paid on the Shares subject to their MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT OF THE COMPANY S ACCOUNTS OR II AN ERROR IN award and then reinvested in further Shares.
assessing the performance condition which resulted in an award VESTING AT A HIGHER LEVEL THAN IT WOULD OTHERWISE HAVE DONE OR III IN Leaving employment the event of termination of service for gross misconduct.
The As a general rule, an award will lapse upon a participant ceasing to Committee may require the satisfaction of the clawback by way of a hold employment or be a director within the companys group.
reduction in the vesting, or size of, any other award or bonus and or a requirement to make a cash payment.
However, if a participant ceases to be an employee or a director because of retirement, injury, disability, redundancy, his employing Participants rights company or the business for which he works being sold out of the Awards will not confer any shareholder rights until the awards have companys group or in other circumstances at the discretion of the vested or the options have been exercised and the participants have Committee, then his award will vest on the date when it would have received their Shares.
vested if he had not ceased such employment or office, subject to i the extent to which the performance conditions have been SATISFIED AT THAT TIME AND II THE PRO RATING OF THE AWARD TO REFLECT THE reduced period of time between its grant and the date of cessation 89 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Explanatory notes to AGM notice continued Rights attaching to Shares Alterations to the Plan Any Shares allotted when an award vests or is exercised will rank The Committee may, at any time, amend the Plan in any respect, equally with Shares then in issue except for rights arising by reference provided that the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for any to a record date prior to their allotment.
amendments that are to the advantage of participants in respect of the rules governing eligibility, limits on participation, the overall limits on the issue of Shares or the transfer of treasury Shares, the basis Variation of capital In the event of any variation of the companys share capital or in the for determining a participants entitlement to, and the terms of, the Shares or cash to be acquired and the adjustment of awards.
Any event of a demerger, payment of a special dividend or similar event which materially affects the market price of the Shares, the amendment to the material disadvantage of participants requires their majority consent.
Committee may make such adjustment as it considers appropriate to the number of Shares subject to an award and or the exercise price The requirement to obtain the prior approval of shareholders will not, payable if any.
however, apply to any minor alteration made to benefit the administration of the Plan, to take account of a change in legislation VERALL 0LAN LIMITS or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory The Plan may operate over new issue Shares, treasury Shares or treatment for participants or for any company in the companys Shares purchased in the market.
Shareholder approval will also not be required for any amendments to the performance conditions applying to an award.
In any ten calendar year period, the company may not issue or grant rights to issue more than: VERSEAS 0LANS The shareholder resolution to approve the Plan will allow the Board a 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company under the Plan and any other employee share plan adopted by the to establish further plans for overseas territories, any such plan to be similar to the Plan, but modified to take account of local tax, COMPANY AND exchange control or securities laws, provided that any Shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against the b 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company under the Plan and any other executive share plan adopted by the limits on individual and overall participation in the Plan.
Treasury Shares will count as new issue Shares for the purposes of these limits unless institutional investors decide that they need not count.
90 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
