Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Accounting policies of the group Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed and adopted for use in the European Union EU and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
References to IFRS hereafter should be construed as references to both IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, except that biological assets and certain financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
"The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that BFDU UIF SFQPSUFE BNPVOUT PG BTTFUT BOE MJBCJMJUJFT UIF EJTDMPTVSF PG DPOUJOHFOU BTTFUT BOE MJBCJMJUJFT BU UIF EBUF PG UIF OBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT BOE UIF SFQPSUFE BNPVOUT PG SFWFOVFT BOE FYQFOTFT EVSJOH UIF ZFBS ""DUVBM SFTVMUT DPVME EJFS GSPN UIPTF FTUJNBUFT The critical accounting policies, which the directors consider are of greater complexity and or particularly subject to the exercise of judgement, are set out under Critical accounting policies in the Business review section of this Annual Report."
Basis for preparation of financial statements on a going concern basis Information on the business environment that the group operates in, the groups strategy and the principal risk factors that the group faces is contained in the Business review.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, borrowings, borrowing facilities, commitments and the groups policies to manage its financial risks are described in the Business review under Liquidity and capital resources, Contractual obligations and notes 21, 22 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
At 30 June 2012 the group has cash and cash equivalents of 1,076 million and committed bank facilities of 2,229 million, with borrowings and bank overdrafts due within one year of 1,230 million.
The group owns a diverse portfolio of beverage alcohol assets and operates in numerous countries around the world.
The group also has a wide diversity of customers and suppliers.
The directors believe that the group is well positioned to manage its business and financial risks successfully.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date.
The consideration transferred is measured at fair value and includes the fair value of any contingent consideration.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of the company and its subsidiaries together with the groups attributable share of the results of associates and joint ventures.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in the income statement up to, or from, the date that control passes.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled, directly or indirectly, by Diageo plc.
Control is the power to govern the operating and financial policies of the subsidiary so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On the acquisition of a business, or of an interest in an associate or joint venture, fair values, reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition, are attributed to the net assets including identifiable intangible assets and contingent liabilities acquired.
Adjustments to fair values include those made to bring accounting policies into line with those of the group.
Directly attributable acquisition costs are recognised in other external charges as incurred.
The interests of non-controlling interests on the date of acquisition can be measured either at the fair value or at the non-controlling shareholders proportion of the net fair value of the identifiable assets assumed.
This choice is made separately for each acquisition.
Where the group has issued a put option over shares held by a non-controlling interest, the group derecognises the noncontrolling interests and instead recognises a contingent deferred consideration liability for the estimated amount likely to be paid to the non-controlling interest on the exercise of those options.
Movements in the estimated liability after initial recognition are recognised in reserves.
Transactions with non-controlling interests are recorded directly in equity.
Sales Sales comprise revenue from the sale of goods, royalties receivable and rents receivable.
Revenue from the sale of goods includes excise and other duties which the group pays as principal but excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties, such as value added tax.
Sales are recognised depending upon individual customer terms at the time of despatch, delivery or some other specified point when the risk of loss transfers.
Provision is made for returns where appropriate.
Sales are stated net of price discounts, allowances for customer loyalty and certain promotional activities and similar items.
Advertising and promotion costs Advertising costs, point of sale materials and sponsorship payments are charged to marketing in operating profit when the company has a right of access to the goods or services acquired.
Research and development 3FTFBSDI FYQFOEJUVSF JO SFTQFDU PG OFX ESJOLT QSPEVDUT BOE QBDLBHF EFTJHO JT XSJUUFO P JO UIF ZFBS JO XIJDI JU JT JODVSSFE Any subsequent development expenditure in the period leading up to product launch that meets the recognition criteria set out in the relevant standard is capitalised.
If capitalised, any intangible asset is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the expected benefit.
Accounting policies of the group 123
