Financial Accounting policies statements 117 of the company Auditors report in respect of the Group Basis of preparation 118 The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, modified to include revaluations Consolidated income statement to fair value of certain financial instruments, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and UK GAAP.
119 By virtue of section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the company is exempt from presenting a profit and loss account and Consolidated disclosing employee numbers and staff costs.
The company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement of statement under the provisions of FRS 1 Revised 1996 and the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has not separately disclosed comprehensive income transactions with wholly owned subsidiary undertakings.
The following paragraphs describe the significant accounting policies under UK GAAP, which have been consistently applied.
120 Consolidated balance sheet Investments 121 Investments in subsidiaries are stated at their historical cost i. e. the fair value of the consideration given by the company less, where Consolidated appropriate, impairment provisions for any permanent decrease in value.
statement of changes in equity The carrying amounts of the companys investments are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is an indication of impairment.
If such an indication exists, then the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Losses are recognised in profit 122 Consolidated or loss and reflected in an allowance against the carrying value.
When a subsequent event causes the amount of impairment loss to statement of decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.
cash flows 123 Dividends paid and received Accounting policies of the group The interim dividend is included in the financial statements in the year in which it is approved by the directors, and the final dividend in the year in which it is approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting.
Dividends received are included in the financial 127 Notes to the statements in the year in which they are receivable.
consolidated financial statements Share-based payments employee benefits 176 The fair value of equity settled share options and share grants is initially measured at grant date based on the binomial or Monte Carlo Auditors report in respect of the models and is charged in the profit and loss account over the vesting period.
For equity settled shares the credit is included in retained company earnings in equity whereas for cash settled share-based payments a liability is recognised in the balance sheet, measured initially at the 177 fair value of the liability.
For cash settled share options and share grants, the fair value of the liability is remeasured at the end of each Company reporting period until the liability is settled, and at the date of settlement, with any changes in the fair value recognised in the profit balance sheet and loss account.
Cancellations of share options are treated as an acceleration of the vesting period and any outstanding charge is 178 recognised in operating profit immediately.
Shares of Diageo plc held by the company for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect Accounting policies of the company of various employee share plans around the group are deducted from equity in the balance sheet.
Any surplus or deficit arising on the sale of the Diageo plc shares held by the company is included as a movement in equity.
Where the company grants options over its 180 Notes to the own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the company financial equity settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiarys financial statements with the corresponding credit being statements recognised directly in equity.
182 Principal group companies Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at closing rates at the balance sheet date.
Pensions and other post employment benefits Diageo operates a number of defined benefit pension plans.
It is not possible to allocate the assets and liabilities of these pension plans between individual companies and therefore the company accounts for them as defined contribution plans.
Contributions payable in respect of defined contribution plans are charged to operating profit as incurred.
Details of the UK Diageo Pension Scheme are provided in the consolidated financial statements.
The company operates a number of post employment benefit plans which are unfunded.
For these plans, the amount charged in the profit and loss account is equivalent to the expected increase in the plans liabilities over the year.
Any changes in the liabilities over the year due to changes in assumptions or experience within the plans are recognised in shareholders equity.
The liability recognised on the balance sheet represents the present value of the obligations under the plans, net of related deferred tax.
