Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Computer software is amortised on a straight-line basis to estimated residual value over its expected useful life.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed each year.
Subject to these reviews, the estimated useful lives are up to five years.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings are stated at cost less depreciation.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Leaseholds are depreciated over the unexpired period of the lease.
Other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis to estimated residual values over their expected useful lives, and these values and lives are reviewed each year.
Subject to these reviews, the estimated useful lives fall within UIF GPMMPXJOH SBOHFT CVJMEJOHT m UP ZFBST XJUIJO QMBOU BOE FRVJQNFOU DBTLT BOE DPOUBJOFST m UP ZFBST PUIFS QMBOU BOE FRVJQNFOU m UP ZFBST YUVSFT BOE UUJOHT m UP ZFBST BOE SFUVSOBCMF CPUUMFT BOE DSBUFT m UP ZFBST Reviews are carried out if there is some indication that impairment may have occurred, to ensure that property, plant and equipment are not carried at above their recoverable amounts.
Government grants Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the group will comply with the conditions pursuant to which they have been granted and that the grants will be received.
Government grants in respect of property, plant and equipment are deducted from the asset that they relate to and reduce the depreciation expense charged to the income statement.
Leases Where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the group at their fair value at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in other financial liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet.
Lease payments are apportioned between interest expense and a reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Other leases are treated as operating leases, with payments and receipts taken to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Biological assets Grape cultivation by the groups wine businesses are accounted for as an agricultural activity.
Accordingly, the groups biological assets grape vines and grapes on the vine are carried at fair value which, in the absence of third party valuations, is computed on the basis of a discounted cash flow calculation.
Agricultural produce harvested grapes is valued at market value on transfer into inventory.
Associates and joint ventures An associate is an undertaking in which the group has a long term equity interest and over which it has the power to exercise significant influence.
The groups interest in the net assets of associates is included in investments in the consolidated balance sheet and its interest in their results is included in the consolidated income statement below the groups operating profit.
Investments in associates are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The impairment review compares the net carrying value with the recoverable amount, where the recoverable amount is the higher of the value in use calculated as the present value of the groups share of the associates future cash flows and its fair value less cost to sell.
Joint ventures, where there is contractual joint control over the entity, are accounted for by including on a line-by-line basis the attributable share of the results, assets and liabilities.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes raw materials, direct labour and expenses, an appropriate proportion of production and other overheads, but not borrowing costs.
Cost is calculated on the weighted average cost incurred in acquiring inventories.
Maturing inventories which are retained for more than one year are classified as current assets.
Assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their net book value is expected to be recovered through sale rather than continuing use.
This condition is only met when the sale is highly probable and the non-current asset, or disposal group, is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of the fair value less selling costs and net book value.
Financial assets Trade, other receivables and loans are recognised when it is probable that a future economic benefit will flow to the group.
Trade, other receivables and loans are carried at original invoice or contract amount less any provisions for discounts and doubtful debts.
Provisions are made where there is evidence of a risk of non payment taking into account ageing, previous experience and general economic conditions.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and deposits which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less at acquisition, including money market deposits, commercial paper and investments.
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Accounting policies of the group 125
