Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Taxation Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
This requires an estimation of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the timing differences which arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments.
Full provision for deferred tax is made for timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements and their recognition in tax computations.
The amount of deferred tax reflects the expected recoverable amount and is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using the basis of taxation enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The company does not discount these balances.
Deferred tax assets are not recognised where it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realised in the future.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions are sustainable.
Once considered to be probable, management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
Any interest and penalties on tax liabilities are provided for in the tax charge.
Financial instruments The companys accounting policies for financial instruments under UK GAAP, namely FRS 25 Financial instruments: presentation, FRS 26 Financial instruments: measurement and FRS 29 Financial instruments: disclosures, are the same as the groups accounting policies under IFRS, namely IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation, IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement and IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value calculated using discounted cash flow techniques based on market data applied consistently for similar types of instruments.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are reported in the income statement.
As consolidated financial information has been disclosed under IFRS 7 in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements, the parent company is exempt from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29.
Provisions Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the company has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are calculated on a discounted basis, where the difference from the original undiscounted provision is material.
The carrying amounts of provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate.
Accounting policies of the company 179
