Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information UK inheritance tax Subject to certain provisions relating to trusts or settlements, an ordinary share or ADS held by an individual shareholder who is domiciled in the United States for the purposes of the Convention between the United States and the United Kingdom relating to estate and gift taxes the Convention and is not a UK national as defined in the Convention will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death whether held on the date of death or gifted during the individuals lifetime except where the ordinary share or ADS is part of the business property of a UK permanent establishment of the individual or pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual who performs independent personal services.
In a case where an ordinary share or ADS is subject both to UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift or estate tax, the Convention generally provides for inheritance tax paid in the United Kingdom to be credited against federal gift or estate tax payable in the United States, or for federal gift or estate tax paid in the United States to be credited against any inheritance tax payable in the United Kingdom, based on priority rules set forth in the Convention.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Stamp duty reserve tax SDRT arises upon the deposit of an underlying ordinary share with the Depositary, generally at the higher rate of 1.5% of its issue price or, as the case may be, of the consideration for transfer.
The Depositary will pay the SDRT but will recover an amount in respect of such tax from the initial holders of ADSs.
No UK stamp duty will be payable on the acquisition or transfer of ADSs in practice, provided that the instrument of transfer is not executed in the United Kingdom and remains at all times outside the United Kingdom.
Furthermore, an agreement to transfer ADSs in the form of ADRs will not give rise to a liability to SDRT.
Purchases of ordinary shares will be subject to UK stamp duty, or SDRT as the case may be, at the rate of 0.5% of the price payable for the ordinary shares at the time of the transfer.
However, where ordinary shares being acquired are transferred direct to the Depositarys nominee, the only charge will generally be the higher SDRT charge of 1.5% of the price payable for the ordinary shares so acquired.
Warning to shareholders share fraud Please beware share fraud of boiler room scams, where shareholders are called out of the blue by fraudsters sometimes claiming to represent Diageo attempting to obtain money or property dishonestly.
Further information is available in the investor section of the companys website www.
com but in short, if in doubt, take proper professional advice before making any investment decision Additional information for shareholders 191
