Other financial assets and liabilities continued statements 117 Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows: Auditors report in 2012 2011 respect of the Group Present Present Future value of Future value of 118 minimum Future minimum minimum Future minimum Consolidated lease finance lease lease finance lease income statement payments charges payments payments charges payments 119 million million million million million million Consolidated Less than one year 39 16 23 12 5 7 statement of comprehensive Between one and five years 129 45 84 38 16 22 income More than five years 165 42 123 76 26 50 120 333 103 230 126 47 79 Consolidated balance sheet 121 23.
Financial instruments and risk management Consolidated statement of Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity changes in equity price movements that arise in the normal course of the groups business.
122 The groups funding, liquidity and exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risks are managed by the groups treasury Consolidated statement of department.
The treasury department uses a range of financial instruments to manage these underlying risks.
cash flows Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of board-approved policies and guidelines, which are recommended and 123 subsequently monitored by the finance committee.
This committee is described in the Corporate governance report.
The policies and Accounting policies guidelines include benchmark exposure and or hedge cover levels for key areas of treasury risk.
The benchmarks, hedge cover levels of the group and overall appropriateness of Diageos risk management policies are reviewed by the board following, for example, significant 127 business, strategic or accounting changes.
The framework provides for limited defined levels of flexibility in execution to allow for the Notes to the consolidated optimal application of the board-approved strategies.
Transactions arising on the application of this flexibility may give rise to exposures financial statements different from the defined benchmark levels that are separately monitored on a daily basis using value at risk analysis.
These transactions 176 are carried at fair value and gains or losses are taken to the income statement as they arise.
In the year ended 30 June 2012 gains and Auditors report in losses on these transactions were not material.
respect of the The group purchases insurance for commercial or, where required, for legal or contractual reasons.
In addition, the group retains company insurable risk where external insurance is not considered an economic means of mitigating these risks.
177 The finance committee receives monthly reports on the activities of the treasury department, including any exposures different Company balance sheet from the defined benchmarks.
178 Accounting policies a Currency risk The group presents its consolidated financial statements in sterling and conducts business in many foreign currencies.
of the company As a result, it is subject to foreign currency risk due to exchange rate movements, which will affect the groups transactions and the 180 translation of the results and underlying net assets of its foreign operations.
To manage the foreign currency risk the group uses certain Notes to the financial instruments.
Where hedge accounting is applied, hedges are documented and tested for hedge effectiveness on an ongoing company financial statements basis.
Diageo expects hedges entered into to continue to be effective and therefore does not expect the impact of ineffectiveness on 182 the consolidated income statement to be material.
Principal group companies Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The group hedges a substantial portion of its exposure to fluctuations in the sterling value of its foreign operations by designating net borrowings held in foreign currencies and using foreign currency spots, forwards, swaps and other financial derivatives.
The board reviewed and approved a revised policy, applicable from 20 June 2012, to manage hedging of foreign exchange risk arising from net investment in foreign operations.
The groups revised policy is to maintain total net investment Value at Risk below 1 billion with additional limits for individual currencies, where Value at Risk is defined as the maximum amount of loss not exceeded over a one year period with a 95% probability confidence level.
The groups previous policy was to seek to hedge currency exposure on its net investment in foreign operations by using gross debt in foreign currencies and foreign currency spots, forwards, swaps and other financial derivatives within the following percentage bands: 80% to 100% for US dollars and euros and, at managements discretion, 0% to 100% for other currencies.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of foreign currency borrowings including foreign currency forwards, swaps and other financial derivatives, to the extent that they are in an effective hedge relationship, are recognised in other comprehensive income to offset exchange differences on net investments in foreign operations.
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings not in a hedge relationship and any ineffectiveness are taken to the income statement.
Transaction exposure hedging The groups policy is to hedge up to 24 months forecasted transactional foreign currency risk in the three major currency pairs US dollar sterling, euro sterling and euro US dollar targeting 75% coverage of the current financial year when the annual plan is approved, and up to 18 months for other currency pairs.
The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and recycled into the income statement at the same time as the underlying hedged transaction affects the income statement.
Any ineffectiveness is taken to the income statement.
Hedge of foreign currency debt The group uses cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with certain foreign currency denominated borrowings.
