Financial instruments and risk management continued statements 117 The group had available undrawn committed bank facilities as follows: Auditors report in 2012 respect of the Group million 118 Expiring within one year 745 Consolidated Expiring between one and two years income statement Expiring after two years 1,484 119 Consolidated 2,229 statement of comprehensive Commitment fees are paid on the undrawn portion of these facilities and accounted for on an accruals basis.
Borrowings under these income facilities will be at prevailing LIBOR rates dependent on the period of drawdown plus an agreed margin.
These facilities can be used 120 for general corporate purposes and, together with cash and cash equivalents, support the groups commercial paper programmes.
Consolidated balance sheet There are no financial covenants on the groups short and long term borrowings.
Certain of these borrowings contain cross 121 default provisions and negative pledges.
Consolidated The committed bank facilities are subject to a single financial covenant, being minimum interest cover ratio of two times statement of defined as the ratio of operating profit before exceptional items, aggregated with share of associates profits after tax, to net interest.
changes in equity They are also subject to pari passu ranking and negative pledge covenants.
122 Any non-compliance with covenants underlying Diageos financing arrangements could, if not waived, constitute an event of Consolidated statement of default with respect to any such arrangements, and any non-compliance with covenants may, in particular circumstances, lead to an cash flows acceleration of maturity on certain borrowings and the inability to access committed facilities.
Diageo was in full compliance with its 123 financial, pari passu ranking and negative pledge covenants throughout each of the years presented.
Accounting policies of the group g Hedging instruments The group designates derivatives which qualify for hedge accounting as either: i a hedge of the fair value 127 of a recognised asset or liability fair value hedge : ii a hedge of a forecast transaction or the cash flow risk from a change in foreign Notes to the consolidated exchange or interest rates cash flow hedge : or iii a hedge of a net investment in foreign operations.
The accounting treatment for financial statements hedges is disclosed in Accounting policies of the group.
176 The group tests effectiveness on a prospective and retrospective basis.
Methods for testing effectiveness include dollar offset, Auditors report in critical terms, regression analysis and hypothetical derivative method.
respect of the company Gain on fair value hedging instruments for the year was 84 million 2011 8 million loss: 2010 163 million gain and the loss on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risks was 86 million 2011 19 million gain: 2010 163 million loss.
177 Company In respect of cash flow hedging instruments, gains of 29 million 2011 25 million gain: 2010 27 million loss have been balance sheet recognised in other comprehensive income due to changes in fair value.
A gain of 4 million and a loss of 19 million have been 178 transferred out of other comprehensive income to other operating expenses and to other finance charges, respectively, in the year Accounting policies 2011 2 million loss and a loss of 54 million: 2010 47 million loss and a gain of 73 million, respectively.
of the company For cash flow hedges of forecast transactions at 30 June 2012, based on year end interest and foreign exchange rates, there is 180 Notes to the expected to be a charge to the income statement of 6 million in 2013 and 4 million in 2014.
With respect to hedges of the cash flow company financial risk from a change in forward foreign exchange rates using cross currency interest rate swaps, the retranslation of the related bond statements principal to closing foreign exchange rates and recognition of interest on the related bonds will affect the income statement in each 182 year until the related bonds mature in 2016 and 2036.
Foreign exchange retranslation and the interest on the hedged bonds in the Principal group income statement are expected to offset those on the cross currency swaps in each of the years.
companies h Fair value measurements Fair value measurements of financial instruments are presented through the use of a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritises the valuation techniques used in fair value calculations.
The levels can be broadly described as follows: rFWFM m VTF PG VOBEKVTUFE RVPUFE QSJDFT JO BDUJWF NBSLFUT GPS JEFOUJDBM BTTFUT PS MJBCJMJUJFT rFWFM m VTF PG PCTFSWBCMF JOQVUT PUIFS UIBO RVPUFE QSJDFT JODMVEFE XJUIJO MFWFM TVDI BT RVPUFE QSJDFT GPS TJNJMBS BTTFUT PS liabilities in active markets: and rFWFM m VTF PG JOQVUT OPU CBTFE PO PCTFSWBCMF NBSLFU EBUB CVU SFFDUJOH NBOBHFNFOU T PXO BTTVNQUJPOT BCPVU QSJDJOH the asset or liability.
The group maintains policies and procedures to value instruments using the most relevant data available.
If multiple inputs that fall into different levels of the hierarchy are used in the valuation of an instrument, the instrument is categorised on the basis of the most subjective input.
Derivatives and other financial liabilities at fair value Foreign currency forwards and swaps, cross currency swaps and interest rate swaps are valued using discounted cash flow techniques.
These techniques incorporate inputs at levels 1 and 2, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
These market inputs are used in the discounted cash flow calculation incorporating the instruments term, notional amount and discount rate, and taking credit risk into account.
As significant inputs to the valuation are observable in active markets, these instruments are categorised as level 2 in the hierarchy.
The Nolet Groups option to sell the remaining 50% equity stake in Ketel One Worldwide BV to Diageo is classified as a derivative financial liability with changes in fair value included in operating profit.
Industrias Licoreras fide Guatemalas option to sell the remaining 50% equity stake in Rum Creations Products Inc, the owner of the Zacapa rum brand, to Diageo is classified as a financial liability with changes in fair value included in retained earnings see note 30.
As the valuation of these options uses assumptions not observable in the market, they are categorised as level 3 in the hierarchy.
