New accounting policies continued statements 117 Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of items of other comprehensive income effective in the year ending 30 June 2013, endorsed by the Auditors report in EU in June 2012 respect of the Group Amendment to IAS 1 Clarification of the requirements for comparative information 118 Limited scope amendment to IAS 12 Income taxes effective in the year ending 30 June 2013 Consolidated income statement Amendment to IAS 16 Classification of servicing equipment IAS 27 Revised Separate financial statements 119 Consolidated IAS 28 Revised Investments in associates and joint ventures statement of Amendment to IAS 32 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities effective in the year ending 30 June 2015 comprehensive Amendment to IAS 32 Tax effect of distribution to holders of equity instruments income Amendment to IAS 34 Interim financial reporting 120 Consolidated Amendment to IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities balance sheet 121 2.
Segmental information Consolidated statement of Diageo is an international manufacturer and distributor of premium drinks.
The group produces, markets and distributes a wide range changes in equity of premium brands, including Johnnie Walker, Smirnoff, Baileys, Crown Royal, Captain Morgan and Guinness.
In addition, Diageo also 122 owns the distribution rights for the Jose Cuervo tequila brands in North America and many other markets.
Consolidated statement of Diageo also owns a number of investments in unconsolidated associates, the principal investment being a 34% interest in Mot cash flows Hennessy, the spirits and wines subsidiary of LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA.
Mot Hennessy is based in France and is a 123 leading producer and exporter of champagne and cognac.
Accounting policies On 25 May 2011 Diageo announced changes to its regional structure.
From 1 July 2011 two autonomous regions, Africa and Latin of the group America and Caribbean, replaced the International region.
The Global Travel and duty free operations are now reported within the five 127 geographical regions in which the external sales take place.
The Middle East business has become part of Asia Pacific.
Notes to the consolidated As a result of this change Diageo now reports the following operating segments externally: North America, Europe, Africa, Latin financial statements America and Caribbean, Asia Pacific and Corporate.
In addition, for management reporting for the year ended 30 June 2012, changes 176 have been made to the allocation of specific corporate items reflecting the geographic segments for which they are in respect of.
Auditors report in Restated segmental information for the years ended 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010 has been disclosed in the tables below.
respect of the Diageo presents segmental information for the manufacture, distribution and selling of premium drinks in operating segments company based on the geographical location of third party customers.
The information presented is consistent with management reporting 177 Company provided to the chief operating decision maker, which has been identified as the executive committee.
balance sheet The executive committee considers the business principally from a geographical perspective and the business analysis is 178 presented under the operating segments of North America, Europe, Africa, Latin America and Caribbean and Asia Pacific.
In addition Accounting policies to these geographical selling segments, a further segment reviewed by the executive committee is Global Supply which manufactures of the company and distributes premium drinks within the group.
Continuing operations also include the Corporate function.
In view of the focus on 180 the geographical segments in explaining the groups performance in the Business review, the results of the Global Supply segment Notes to the company financial have been allocated to the geographical segments.
Corporate revenues and costs are in respect of central costs, including finance, statements human resources and legal, as well as certain information systems, facilities and employee costs that do not relate to the geographical 182 segments or to Global Supply and hence are not allocated.
They also include rents receivable in respect of properties not used by the Principal group group in the manufacture, sale or distribution of premium drinks and the results of Gleneagles Hotel.
companies The segmental information for net sales and operating profit before exceptional items is reported at budgeted exchange rates in line with management reporting.
For management reporting purposes the group measures the current year at, and restates the prior year net sales and operating profit to, the current years budgeted exchange rates.
These exchange rates are set prior to the financial year as part of the financial planning process and provide a consistent exchange rate to measure the performance of the business throughout the year.
The adjustments required to retranslate the segmental information to actual exchange rates and to reconcile it to the groups reported results are shown in the tables below.
The comparative segmental information, prior to retranslation, has not been restated at the current years budgeted exchange rates but is presented at the budgeted rates for the years ended 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010, respectively.
In addition, for management reporting purposes Diageo excludes the impact of acquisitions and disposals completed in the current and prior year from the results of the geographical segments in order to provide comparable results.
The impact of acquisitions and disposals on net sales and operating profit is allocated to the appropriate geographical segments in the tables below.
These acquisitions and disposals are the same as those disclosed in the organic growth reconciliations in the Business review but for management reporting purposes they are disclosed here at budgeted exchange rates.
