Governance Directors report 85 Board of directors and executive committee 87 The directors have pleasure in submitting their Annual Report for Corporate governance statement Directors the year ended 30 June 2012. remuneration The corporate governance statement, prepared in accordance report with rule 7.2 of the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, 104 Annual General Meeting comprises the following sections of the Annual Report: the Corporate The AGM will be held at Church House Conference Centre, Deans Corporate governance report and the Additional information governance report Yard, Westminster, London SW1P 3NZ at 2.30pm on Wednesday, for shareholders.
Significant agreements change of control Dividends The following significant agreements contain certain termination Diageo paid an interim dividend of 16.60 pence per ordinary and other rights for Diageos counterparties upon achange of share on 10 April 2012.
The directors recommend a final control of the company.
dividend of 26.90 pence per ordinary share.
Subject to approval Under the agreement governing the companys 34% by shareholders, the final dividend will be paid on 22 October investment in Mot Hennessy SNC MH and Mot Hennessy 2012 to ordinary shareholders on the register on 7 September International SAS MHI, if a competitor as defined therein 2012.
Payment to US ADR holders will be made on 26 October directly or indirectly takes control of the company which, for 2012. these purposes, would occur if such competitor acquired more A dividend reinvestment plan, which enables ordinary than 34% of the voting rights or equity interests in the company, shareholders to invest their dividends in ordinary shares, is LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA LVMH may require the available in respect of the final dividend and the plan notice company to sell its shares in MH and MHI to LVMH.
The master agreement governing the operation of the groups regional joint ventures with LVMH states that upon a change of control of the company being, for these purposes, Directors the acquisition by a third party of 30% or more of the issued share The directors of the company who served during the year are capital having voting rights in the company, LVMH may either shown in the section Board of directors and company secretary appoint and remove the chairman of each joint venture entity and Executive committee above.
governed by such master agreement, who shall be given a In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all casting vote, or require each joint venture entity to be wound up.
the directors retire by rotation at the AGM and offer themselves Agreements for the distribution of the Jose Cuervo tequila for re-election.
The non-executive directors proposed for brands allow Casa Cuervo SA fide C. V. and certain of its affiliates re-election do not have service contracts.
jointly, Cuervo the right to terminate such agreements upon a Further details of directors contracts, remuneration and change of control of the company, if Cuervos advance written their interests in the shares of the company at 30 June 2012 are consent to the change of control is not obtained.
given in the directors remuneration report above.
The directors powers are determined by UK legislation and Diageos articles of association.
The directors may exercise all the companys powers provided that Diageos articles of association or applicable legislation do not stipulate that any powers must be exercised by the members.
Auditor The auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, is willing to continue in office and a resolution for its re-appointment as auditor of the company will be submitted to the AGM.
Disclosure of information to the auditor The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant audit information and to ensure that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
Business review The review of the business of the company and the description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the company, prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, comprises the following sections of the Annual Report: the Chief executives review, the Business description and the Business review.
