Financial Share-based payments employee benefits statements The fair value of equity settled share options and share grants is initially measured at grant date based on the binomial or Monte Carlo 117 models and is charged in the income statement over the vesting period.
For equity settled shares the credit is included in retained Auditors report in earnings in equity whereas for cash settled share-based payments a liability is recognised in the balance sheet, measured initially at the respect of the Group fair value of the liability.
For cash settled share options and share grants, the fair value of the liability is remeasured at the end of each 118 reporting period until the liability is settled, and at the date of settlement, with any changes in the fair value recognised in the income Consolidated income statement statement.
Cancellations of share options are treated as an acceleration of the vesting period and any outstanding charge is recognised in operating profit immediately.
Shares of Diageo plc held by the company for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of various 119 Consolidated employee share plans around the group are deducted from equity in the consolidated balance sheet.
Any surplus or deficit arising statement of on the sale of the Diageo plc shares held by the group is included as a movement in equity.
comprehensive income Pensions and other post employment benefits 120 Consolidated The groups principal pension funds are defined benefit plans.
In addition, the group has defined contribution plans, unfunded post balance sheet employment medical benefit liabilities and other unfunded defined benefit post employment liabilities.
For post employment plans, 121 other than defined contribution plans, the amount charged in the income statement is the cost of accruing pension benefits promised Consolidated to employees over the year, plus any fully vested benefit improvements granted to members by the group during the year.
The income statement of TUBUFNFOU BMTP JODMVEFT B DSFEJU FRVJWBMFOU UP UIF HSPVQ T FYQFDUFE SFUVSO PO UIF QFOTJPO QMBOT BTTFUT PWFS UIF ZFBS PTFU CZ B DIBSHF changes in equity FRVBM UP UIF FYQFDUFE JODSFBTF JO UIF QMBOT MJBCJMJUJFT PWFS UIF ZFBS 5IF EJFSFODFT CFUXFFO UIF GBJS WBMVF PG UIF QMBOT BTTFUT BOE 122 Consolidated the present value of the plans liabilities are disclosed as an asset or liability on the consolidated balance sheet as appropriate.
Any statement of EJFSFODFT CFUXFFO UIF FYQFDUFE SFUVSO PO BTTFUT BOE UIPTF BDUVBMMZ BDIJFWFE BOE BOZ DIBOHFT JO UIF MJBCJMJUJFT PWFS UIF ZFBS EVF UP cash flows changes in assumptions or experience within the plans, are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The amount of any pension 123 fund asset recognised on the balance sheet is limited to any future refunds from the plan or the present value of reductions in future Accounting policies contributions to the plan.
of the group Contributions payable by the group in respect of defined contribution plans are charged to operating profit as incurred.
127 Notes to the consolidated Capitalisation of finance costs financial statements Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, being an asset that necessarily 176 takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale, are added to the cost of that asset.
All other finance costs are Auditors report in recognised as charges in the income statement for the period in which they are incurred.
respect of the company 177 Exceptional items Company Exceptional items are those that in managements judgement need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence.
Such items are balance sheet included within the income statement caption to which they relate, and are separately disclosed either in the notes to the consolidated 178 financial statements or on the face of the consolidated income statement.
Accounting policies of the company Foreign currencies 180 Notes to the Items included in the financial statements of the groups subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are measured using the currency of company financial the primary economic environment in which each entity operates its functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are statements presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent company.
182 The income statements and cash flows of overseas entities are translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange, Principal group other than substantial transactions that are translated at the rate on the date of the transaction.
The adjustment to closing rates is taken companies to the exchange reserve.
#BMBODF TIFFUT BSF USBOTMBUFE BU DMPTJOH SBUFT &YDIBOHF EJFSFODFT BSJTJOH PO UIF SFUSBOTMBUJPO BU DMPTJOH SBUFT PG UIF PQFOJOH CBMBODF TIFFUT PG PWFSTFBT FOUJUJFT BSF UBLFO UP UIF FYDIBOHF SFTFSWF BT BSF FYDIBOHF EJFSFODFT BSJTJOH PO GPSFJHO DVSSFODZ CPSSPXJOHT BOE OBODJBM JOTUSVNFOUT EFTJHOBUFE BT OFU JOWFTUNFOU IFEHFT UP UIF FYUFOU UIBU UIFZ BSF FFDUJWF 5BY DIBSHFT BOE credits arising on such items are also taken to the exchange reserve.
Gains and losses accumulated in the exchange reserve are recycled UP UIF JODPNF TUBUFNFOU XIFO UIF GPSFJHO PQFSBUJPO JT TPME 0UIFS FYDIBOHF EJFSFODFT BSF UBLFO UP UIF JODPNF TUBUFNFOU The results of operations in hyperinflationary economies are adjusted to reflect the changes in the purchasing power of the local currency of the entity before being translated to sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
If hedged, the impact of hedging is recognised, where permitted, under hedge accounting see accounting policy for derivative financial instruments.
Brands, goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill represents the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the value of any non-controlling interest in the company acquired and the fair value of any previously held equity interest in the subsidiary acquired over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 July 1998 was eliminated against reserves, and this goodwill has not been restated.
Goodwill arising subsequent to 1 July 1998 has been capitalised.
Acquired brands and other intangible assets are recognised when they are controlled through contractual or other legal rights, or are separable from the rest of the business, and the fair value can be reliably measured.
Intangible assets that are regarded as having limited useful economic lives are amortised on a straight-line basis over those lives and reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Goodwill and intangible assets that are regarded as having indefinite useful economic lives are not amortised.
These assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually or when there is an indication that the assets may be impaired.
To ensure that assets are not carried at above their recoverable amounts, the impairment reviews compare the net carrying value with the recoverable amount, where the recoverable amount is the value in use.
Amortisation and any impairment writedowns are charged to other operating expenses in the income statement.
