Additional Additional information information for shareholders for shareholders 184 Legal proceedings Legal proceedings 184 Related party Information on legal proceedings is set out in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
transactions 184 Related party transactions Share capital Transactions with directors are disclosed in the directors remuneration report see Directors remuneration report Additional 185 American information and transactions with other related parties are disclosed in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
depositary shares 186 Share capital Articles of association Major shareholders At 13 August 2012, the following substantial interests 3% or more in the companys ordinary share capital voting 188 Exchange controls securities had been notified to the company.
189 Percentage of issued Documents on ordinary share capital Date of notification display Shareholder Number of ordinary shares excluding treasury shares of interest 189 BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Taxation indirect holding 147,296,928 5.89% 3 December 2009 191 Capital Research and Management Company Warning to indirect holding 124,653,096 4.99% 28 April 2009 shareholders share fraud Legal & General Group Plc direct holding 99,894,002 3.99% 20 October 2009 192 Independent The company has not been notified of any other substantial interests in its securities.
The companys substantial shareholders do not Assurance Report of have different voting rights.
Diageo, so far as is known by the company, is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another KPMG Audit Plc to Diageo plc corporation or by any government.
Diageo knows of no arrangements, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change of control of the company.
IBC Glossary of terms and As at the close of business on 13 August 2012, 486,197,712 ordinary shares, including those held through ADSs, were held by US equivalents approximately 2,555 holders including ADR holders with registered addresses in the United States, representing approximately 19.4% of the outstanding ordinary shares excluding treasury shares.
At such date, 121,390,332 ADSs were held by 1,896 registered ADR holders.
Since certain of such ordinary shares and ADSs are held by nominees or former GrandMet or Guinness Group ADR holders who have not re-registered their ADSs, the number of holders may not be representative of the number of beneficial owners in the United States or the ordinary shares held by them.
Trading market for shares The Diageo plc ordinary shares are listed on the Exchange and on the Dublin and Paris Stock Exchanges.
Diageo ADSs, representing four Diageo ordinary shares each, are listed on the NYSE.
The principal trading market for the ordinary shares is the Exchange.
Shares are traded on the Exchanges electronic order book.
Orders placed on the order book are displayed on-screen through a central electronic system and trades are automatically executed, in price and then time priority, when orders match with corresponding buy or sell orders.
Only member firms of the Exchange, or the Exchange itself if requested by the member firm, can enter or delete orders on behalf of clients or on their own account.
Although use of the order book is not mandatory, all trades, whether or not executed through the order book and regardless of size, must be published immediately after execution unless they are large trades eligible for deferred publication.
The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID allows for delayed reporting of large trades with a sliding scale requirement based on qualifying minimum thresholds for the amount of consideration to be paid the proportion of average daily turnover ADT of a stock represented by a trade.
Provided that a trade consideration equals or exceeds the qualifying minimum size, it will be eligible for deferred publication ranging from 60 minutes from time of trade to three trading days after time of trade.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and the US dollar will affect the US dollar equivalent of the pound sterling price of the ordinary shares on the Exchange and, as a result, will affect the market price of the ADSs on the NYSE.
In addition, such fluctuations will affect the US dollar amounts received by holders of ADSs on conversion of cash dividends paid in pounds sterling on the underlying ordinary shares.
The following table shows, for the periods indicated, the reported high and low middle market quotations which represent an average of bid and asked prices for the ordinary shares on the Exchange, taken from its Daily Official List, and the highest and lowest sales prices for ADSs as reported on the NYSE composite tape.
