Financial instruments and risk management continued statements 117 Analysis of sensitivities Auditors report in 0.5% 0.5% respect of the Group decrease increase 10% 10% in interest in interest weakening strengthening 118 rates rates of sterling of sterling Consolidated million million million million income statement 2012 119 Impact on income statement gain loss 5 5 26 21 Consolidated statement of i ii Impact on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income gain loss 19 18 786 643 comprehensive 2011 income Impact on income statement gain loss 13 13 29 24 120 i ii Consolidated Impact on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income gain loss 22 22 731 598 balance sheet 121 i The groups foreign currency debt is used to hedge the net investments in foreign operations and as such the translation of foreign net investments Consolidated mainly offsets the foreign currency gains or losses on financial instruments recognised in other comprehensive income.
statement of ii Impact on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income includes the impact on the income statement.
changes in equity 122 The above analysis considers the impact of all financial instruments including financial derivatives, cash and cash equivalents, Consolidated borrowings and other financial assets and liabilities.
statement of cash flows 123 e Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Accounting policies group.
Credit risk arises from cash balances including bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments of the group and credit exposures to customers, including outstanding loans, trade and other receivables, financial guarantees and committed 127 transactions.
Credit risk is managed separately for financial and business related credit exposures.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Financial credit risk 176 Diageo aims to minimise its financial credit risk through the application of risk management policies approved and monitored by the Auditors report in board.
Counterparties are limited to major banks and financial institutions, primarily with a long term credit rating within the A band respect of the or better, and the policy restricts the exposure to any one counterparty by setting credit limits taking into account the credit quality company of the counterparty.
The groups policy is designed to ensure that individual counterparty limits are adhered to and that there are no 177 significant concentrations of credit risk.
The board also defines the types of financial instruments which may be transacted.
The credit Company balance sheet risk arising through the use of financial instruments for currency and interest rate risk management is estimated with reference to the 178 fair value of contracts with a positive value, rather than the notional amount of the instruments themselves.
Accounting policies When derivative transactions are undertaken with bank counterparties, the group may, where appropriate, enter into certain of the company agreements with such bank counterparties whereby the parties agree to post cash collateral for the benefit of the other if the net 180 valuations of the derivatives are above a pre-determined threshold.
Notes to the Diageo annually reviews the credit limits applied and regularly monitors the counterparties credit quality reflecting market company financial statements credit conditions.
182 Principal group Business related credit risk companies Loan, trade and other receivables exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise and credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for the customer.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to loans, trade and other receivables as the group has a large number of customers which are internationally dispersed.
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the groups exposure to credit risk at the reporting date as disclosed in note 23 i, excluding the impact of any collateral held or other credit enhancements.
f Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Diageo may encounter in meeting its obligations associated with financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or other financial assets.
The groups policy with regard to the expected maturity profile of borrowings is to limit the amount of such borrowings maturing within 12 months to 50% of gross borrowings less money market demand deposits, and the level of commercial paper to 30% of gross borrowings less money market demand deposits.
In addition, it is group policy to maintain backstop facilities with relationship banks to support commercial paper obligations.
The following table provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows including interest payable for the groups non-derivative financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis.
Where interest payments are on a floating rate basis, rates of each cash flow until maturity of the instruments are calculated based on the forward yield curve prevailing at 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2011.
