Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
New accounting policies a Adopted by the group The following accounting standards and amendments, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB or International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC, are effective for the first time in the current financial year and have been adopted by the group with no impact on its consolidated results or financial position: Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements IAS 24 Revised Related party disclosures Amendment to IAS 34 Interim financial reporting Amendment to IFRS 7 Disclosure of the financial effect of the extent to which collateral and other credit enhancements mitigate credit risk Amendment to IFRS 7 Transfers of financial assets Amendment to IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes Amendment to IFRIC 14 IAS 19: The limit on defined benefit assets, minimum funding requirements and their interaction Statement of cash flows The group has revised the disclosure of certain prior year amounts in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
In the year ended 30 June 2012 directly attributable acquisition transaction costs of 47 million 2011 20 million: 2010 9 million have been included in cash flow from operating activities rather than cash flow from investing activities and dividends paid to non-controlling interests of 118 million 2011 112 million: 2010 107 million are now disclosed as part of cash flows from financing activities rather than cash flow from operating activities.
This revised presentation is considered to be more consistent with the treatment of these items in the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The revision had no impact on prior period increase or decrease in cash and cash equivalents, net assets or net profit.
b Not adopted by the group The following standards and amendments, issued by the IASB but not yet endorsed by the EU unless stated otherwise, have not yet been adopted by the group.
The standards or interpretations will have to be adopted by the group in the year ending 30 June 2014 unless stated otherwise, though the group may determine to adopt them earlier.
The group does not currently believe the adoption of these standards or interpretations will have a material impact on its consolidated results or financial position, unless stated otherwise.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments effective in the year ending 30 June 2016 removes the multiple classification and measurement models for financial assets required by IAS 39 and introduces a model that has only two classification categories: amortised cost and fair value.
Classification is determined by the business model used to manage the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial assets.
The accounting and presentation of financial liabilities and for derecognising financial instruments has been transferred from IAS 39 without any significant changes.
The amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures requires additional disclosures on transition from IAS 39 to IFRS 9.
The group is currently assessing the impact this standard would have on its consolidated results and financial position.
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements replaces the guidance of control and consolidation in IAS 27 and SIC -12 Consolidation special purpose entities.
The core principle that a consolidated entity presents a parent and its subsidiaries as if they were a single entity remains unchanged, as do the mechanics of consolidation.
IFRS 1 1 Joint arrangements requires joint arrangements to be accounted for as a joint operation or as a joint venture depending on the rights and obligations of each party to the arrangement.
Proportionate consolidation for joint ventures will be eliminated and equity accounting will be mandatory.
It is anticipated that the application of the standard will result in an immaterial decrease in net sales, total assets and total liabilities of the group but have no impact on the groups net profit or net assets.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities requires enhanced disclosures of the nature, risks and financial effects associated with the groups interests in subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements and unconsolidated structured entities.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement explains how to measure fair value and aims to enhance fair value disclosures.
The standard does not materially change the measurement of fair value but codifies it in one place.
Amendments to IAS 19 Employee benefits endorsed by the EU in June 2012 changes a number of disclosure requirements for post employment arrangements and restricts the options currently available on how to account for defined benefit pension plans.
The most significant change that will impact the group is that the amendment requires the expected returns on pension plan assets, currently calculated based on managements estimate of expected returns, to be replaced by a credit on the pension plan assets calculated at the liability discount rate.
The group estimates the adoption of the revised IAS 19 would result in an additional charge to the income statement in the year ended 30 June 2012 of approximately 65 million.
The change does not impact the groups net assets.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 127
