Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Documents on display The latest Annual Report, the Form 20-F and any other documents filed by the company with the US Securities Exchange Commission may be inspected at the Securities and Exchange Commissions public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
Information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1 800 SEC 0330.
Taxation This section provides a descriptive summary of certain US federal income tax and UK tax consequences that are likely to be material to the holders of the ordinary shares or ADSs, but only those who hold their ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
It does not purport to be a complete technical analysis or a listing of all potential tax effects relevant to the ownership of the ordinary shares and ADSs.
"This section does not apply to any holder who is subject to special rules, including: r B EFBMFS JO TFDVSJUJFT PS GPSFJHO DVSSFODZ r B USBEFS JO TFDVSJUJFT UIBU FMFDUT UP VTF B NBSL UP NBSLFU NFUIPE PG BDDPVOUJOH GPS TFDVSJUJFT IPMEJOHT r B UBY FYFNQU PSHBOJTBUJPO r B MJGF JOTVSBODF DPNQBOZ r B QFSTPO MJBCMF GPS BMUFSOBUJWF NJOJNVN UBY r B QFSTPO UIBU BDUVBMMZ PS DPOTUSVDUJWFMZ PXOT PS NPSF PG UIF WPUJOH TUPDL PG %JBHFP r B QFSTPO UIBU IPMET PSEJOBSZ TIBSFT PS ""%4T BT QBSU PG B TUSBEEMF PS B IFEHJOH PS DPOWFSTJPO USBOTBDUJPO r B QFSTPO UIBU IPMET PSEJOBSZ TIBSFT PS ""%4T BT QBSU PG B XBTI TBMF GPS UBY QVSQPTFT r B 64 IPMEFS BT EFOFE CFMPX XIPTF GVODUJPOBM DVSSFODZ JT OPU UIF 64 EPMMBS PS r B QBSUOFSTIJQ PS B QBSUOFS JO B QBSUOFSTIJQ UIBU IPMET PSEJOBSZ TIBSFT PS ""%4T For UK tax purposes, this section applies only to persons who are the absolute beneficial owners of their shares or ADSs and who hold their shares or ADSs as investments."
It assumes that holders of ADSs will be treated as holders of the underlying ordinary shares.
In addition to those persons mentioned above, this section does not apply to holders that are banks, regulated investment companies, other financial institutions or to persons who have or are deemed to have acquired their ordinary shares or ADSs in the course of an employment or trade.
This summary does not apply to persons who are treated as non-domiciled and resident or ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom for the purposes of UK tax law.
This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, published rulings and court decisions, the laws of the United Kingdom and the practice of Her Majestys Revenue and Customs, all as currently in effect, as well as on the Convention Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Tax on Income and Capital Gains the Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
In addition, this section is based in part upon the representations of the Depositary and the assumption that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
In general, and taking into account this assumption, for US federal income tax purposes and for the purposes of the Treaty, holders of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as the owner of the shares represented by those ADSs.
Exchanges of shares for ADRs, and ADRs for shares, generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK tax on profits or gains.
A US holder is a beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that is for US federal income tax purposes: r B DJUJ[FO PS SFTJEFOU GPS UBY QVSQPTFT PG UIF 6OJUFE 4UBUFT BOE XIP JT OPU BOE IBT BU OP QPJOU CFFO SFTJEFOU PS PSEJOBSJMZ SFTJEFOU in the United Kingdom: r B 64 EPNFTUJD DPSQPSBUJPO r BO FTUBUF XIPTF JODPNF JT TVCKFDU UP 64 GFEFSBM JODPNF UBY SFHBSEMFTT PG JUT TPVSDF PS r B USVTU JG B 64 DPVSU DBO FYFSDJTF QSJNBSZ TVQFSWJTJPO PWFS UIF USVTU T BENJOJTUSBUJPO BOE POF PS NPSF 64 QFSTPOT BSF BVUIPSJTFE to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
This section is not intended to provide specific advice and no action should be taken or omitted in reliance upon it.
This section addresses only certain aspects of US federal income tax and UK income tax, corporation tax, capital gains tax, inheritance tax and stamp taxes.
Holders of the ordinary shares or ADSs are urged to consult their own tax adviser regarding the US federal, state and local, and UK and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of the shares or ADSs in their respective circumstances.
In particular, holders are encouraged to confirm with their adviser whether they are a US holder eligible for the benefits of the Treaty.
Dividends UK taxation There is no UK withholding tax on dividends.
A shareholder who is an individual resident for UK tax purposes in the United Kingdom that receives a dividend from the company will generally be entitled to a tax credit equal to one-ninth of the dividend.
The individual will be taxable on the total of the dividend and the related credit, known as the gross dividend, which will be regarded as the top slice of the individuals income.
In the case of a shareholder who is liable to income tax at the basic rate, the tax credit will be treated as discharging the individuals liability to income tax in respect of the gross dividend.
In the case of a shareholder who is liable to income tax at the higher rate, the individual will be subject to tax on the gross dividend at the rate of 32.5%, to the extent that the gross dividend falls above the threshold for the higher rate of income tax when it is treated as mentioned above as the top slice of the individuals income.
This means that the tax credit will satisfy only part of the individuals liability to income tax on the gross dividend, so that the individual will have to account for income tax equal to 22.5% of the gross dividend.
In the case of a shareholder who is liable to income tax at the additional rate, the individual will be subject to tax on the gross dividend at the rate of 42.5%, to the extent that the gross dividend falls above the threshold for the additional rate of income tax when it is treated as mentioned above as the top slice of the individuals income.
This means that the tax credit will satisfy only part of the individuals liability to income tax on the gross dividend, so that the individual will have to account for income tax equal to 32.5% of the gross dividend.
Shareholders within the charge to UK corporation tax which are small companies for the purposes of the UK taxation of dividends will not generally be subject Additional information for shareholders 189 Additional to tax on dividends from Diageo.
Other shareholders within the charge to UK corporation tax will not be subject to tax on dividends information from Diageo so long as the dividends fall within an exempt class and certain conditions are met.
In general, dividends paid on shares for shareholders that are ordinary share capital for UK tax purposes and are not redeemable and dividends paid to a person holding less than 10% 184 of the issued share capital of the payer or any class of that share capital are examples of dividends that fall within an exempt class.
Legal proceedings A shareholder who is not liable for tax on dividends received on the shares will not be entitled to claim payment of the tax credit in 184 respect of those dividends.
Related party transactions Eligible US holders will not normally be entitled to a tax credit under the Treaty, nor will they be subject to a withholding tax by the United Kingdom.
184 Share capital 185 US taxation Under the US federal income tax laws, and subject to the passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, rules discussed American below, the gross amount of any dividend paid to a US holder by Diageo in respect of its ordinary shares or ADSs out of its current or depositary shares accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes is subject to US federal income taxation.
186 Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2013 that constitute qualified dividend Articles of income will be taxable to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15%, provided that the ordinary shares or ADSs are held for more than association 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and the holder meets other holding period 188 Exchange controls requirements.
Dividends paid by Diageo with respect to its ordinary shares or ADSs generally will be qualified dividend income to US holders that meet the holding period requirement.
Under UK law, dividends are not subject to UK withholding tax.
Therefore, 189 Documents on the US holder will include in income for US federal income tax purposes the amount of the dividend received, and the receipt of display a dividend will not entitle the US holder to a foreign tax credit.
189 The dividend must be included in income when the US holder, in the case of shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, receives Taxation the dividend, actually or constructively.
The dividend will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US 191 corporations in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources outside the United Warning to States, and, depending on the US holders circumstances, will generally either be passive or general income for purposes of shareholders share fraud computing the foreign tax credit, if allowable, to a US holder.
The amount of the dividend distribution that must be included in income 192 of a US holder will be the US dollar value of the pence payments made, determined at the spot pounds sterling US dollar foreign Independent exchange rate on the date the dividend distribution is included in income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into Assurance Report of US dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date the dividend KPMG Audit Plc to Diageo plc payment is included in income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss and will not be eligible for the special tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income.
The gain or loss generally will be income or loss from IBC Glossary of terms and sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings US equivalents and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the holders basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain.
Taxation of capital gains UK taxation A citizen or resident for tax purposes of the United States who has at no time been either resident or ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom will not be liable for UK tax on capital gains realised or accrued on the sale or other disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs, unless the ordinary shares or ADSs are held in connection with a trade or business carried on by the holder in the United Kingdom through a UK branch, agency or a permanent establishment.
A disposal or deemed disposal of shares or ADSs by a holder who is resident or in the case of an individual resident or ordinarily resident in the UK may, depending on the holders particular circumstances, and subject to any available exemption or relief, give rise to a chargeable gain or an allowable loss for the purposes of UK taxation of chargeable gains.
US taxation Subject to the PFIC rules discussed below, a US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs will recognise capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount that is realised and the tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Capital gain of a non-corporate US holder is generally taxed at preferential rates where the property is held for more than one year.
The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
A US holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on a gain on the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs will generally be entitled, subject to certain limitations, to a credit against the holders US federal income tax liability for the amount of any UK tax paid in respect of such gain.
PFIC rules Diageo believes that ordinary shares and ADSs should not be treated as stock of a PFIC for US federal income tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is made annually and thus may be subject to change.
If treated as a PFIC, unless a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis with respect to the ordinary shares or ADSs, gain realised on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs would in general not be treated as capital gain.
Instead, US holders would be treated as if the holder had realised such gain and certain excess distributions pro-rated over the holders holding period for the ordinary shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which the gain or distribution was allocated, together with an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year.
With certain exceptions, a holders ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as stock in a PFIC if Diageo were a PFIC at any time during the holding period in a holders ordinary shares or ADSs.
In addition, dividends received from Diageo will not be eligible for the special tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income if Diageo is a PFIC either in the taxable year of the distribution or the preceding taxable year, but instead will be taxable at rates applicable to ordinary income.
