Additional The Disclosure and Transparency Rules set out in detail the circumstances in which an obligation of disclosure will arise, information as well as certain exemptions from those obligations for specified persons.
for shareholders Under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006, Diageo may, by notice in writing, require a person that Diageo knows or has 184 reasonable cause to believe is or was during the three years preceding the date of notice interested in Diageos shares to indicate Legal proceedings whether or not that is the case and, if that person does or did hold an interest in Diageos shares, to provide certain information 184 as set out in that Act.
Related party transactions Rule 3 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules further requires persons discharging managerial responsibilities within Diageo and their connected persons to notify Diageo of transactions conducted on their own account in Diageo shares or derivatives or 184 Share capital certain financial instruments relating to Diageo shares.
185 The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes strict disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of American an offeror or offeree company on all parties to a takeover and also on their respective associates during the course of an offer period.
depositary shares 186 General meetings and notices At least 21 clear days written notice of an annual general meeting is required.
Any general meeting Articles of which is not an annual general meeting is called a general meeting.
Since the coming into force of the Companies Shareholders association Rights Regulations 2009, the minimum notice period for general meetings has increased from 14 to 21 clear days.
This can, however, 188 Exchange controls be reduced to 14 clear days, subject to shareholder approval, and offering shareholders the facility to vote electronically.
Diageo already offers shareholders the facility to vote by electronic means via its online proxy service, and intends to put the necessary resolution to 189 Documents on the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, as it did in 2011, to approve the holding of subsequent general meetings on not less than display 14 clear days notice.
This approval will expire at the next Annual General Meeting.
189 An annual general meeting of shareholders must be held within six months of Diageos accounting reference date and at a time Taxation and place determined by the directors.
191 The chairman of any general meeting is entitled to refuse admission to or eject from that general meeting any person who fails Warning to to comply with any security arrangements or restrictions that the board may impose.
shareholders share fraud 192 Variation of rights If, at any time, Diageos share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class of shares Independent may be varied, subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less than Assurance Report of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or upon the adoption of a special resolution passed at a separate KPMG Audit Plc to Diageo plc meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of Diageos articles of association relating to proceedings at a general meeting IBC Glossary of terms and apply, except that a the quorum is to be the number of persons which must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy not less US equivalents than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, if such quorum is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who holds shares of the class regardless of the number of shares he holds, b any holder of shares of the class who is present in person or by proxy may demand a poll, and c each shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote will have one vote per share held in that particular class in the event a poll is taken.
Class rights are deemed not to have been varied by the creation or issue of new shares ranking equally with or subsequent to that class of shares in all respects or by the reduction of the capital paid up on such shares or by the purchase or redemption by Diageo of its own shares, in each case in accordance with the Companies Acts and Diageos articles of association.
Repurchase of shares Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, Diageo may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of Diageos issued share capital.
Diageo currently has shareholder authority to buy back up to 250 million ordinary shares during the period up to the next Annual General Meeting.
The 101 minimum price which must be paid for such shares is 28 pence and the maximum price is the higher of a an amount equal to 108 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five preceding business days and b the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange at the time the purchase is carried out.
Restrictions on transfers of shares The board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated Diageo share unless the instrument of transfer a is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the board may reasonably require, b is in respect of only one class of share and c if to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as defined in the articles of association and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
The board may decline to register a transfer of any of Diageos certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in Diageos articles of association if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in Diageos articles of association after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts, unless the transfer is shown to the board to be pursuant to an arms-length sale as defined in the articles of association.
Exchange controls There are currently no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on the payment of dividends to US persons on Diageos ordinary shares or on the conduct of Diageos operations.
There are no restrictions under the companys articles of association or under English law that limit the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold or vote the companys ordinary shares.
Please refer to the Taxation section below for details relating to the taxation of dividend payments.
