Our business Governance Financial statements Other information Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the 2013 Annual General Meeting of Dignity plc the Company will be held at DLA Piper UK LLP, Victoria Square House, Victoria Square, Birmingham, West Midlands, B2 4DL on Thursday 6 June 2013 at 11.00am for the following purposes: Ordinary Resolutions To propose the following as ordinary resolutions: 1.
To receive and consider the Groups financial statements, and the reports of the Directors and auditors thereon for the 52 week period ended 28 December 2012.
To approve the Report on Directors Remuneration for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 as set out on pages 34 to 44 of the Annual Report 2012.
The Chairman confirms that, following a formal evaluation, the Directors nominated for re-appointment in resolutions 3 to 11 inclusive below continue to be effective and demonstrate a commitment to the role.
Full biographical details are on pages 32 and 33.
To re-appoint Peter Hindley, as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Mike McCollum, as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Andrew Davies, as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Richard Portman, as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Steve Whittern, as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Ishbel Macpherson, as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Alan McWalter, as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Jane Ashcroft, as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Martin Pexton, as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office from conclusion of the meeting to the conclusion of the next meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
To approve the proposed dividend of 10.75 pence per Ordinary Share and to authorise its payment on 28 June 2013 to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 24 May 2013.
"That the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 ""the Act"", to exercise all powers of the Company to allot Relevant Securities: a comprising equity securities as defined in section 560 1 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,992,835 such amount to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount of Relevant Securities allotted pursuant to paragraph b of this resolution in connection with a rights issue: i to holders of Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company in proportion as nearly as practicable to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them: and ii to holders of other equity securities in the capital of the Company, as required by the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates or any legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange: and b otherwise than pursuant to paragraph a of this resolution, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,996,417.50 such amount to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount of Relevant Securities allotted pursuant to paragraph a of this resolution in excess of 1,996,417.50, provided that unless previously revoked, varied or renewed these authorities shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on 5 September 2014 whichever is the earlier, save that, in each case, the Company may make an offer or agreement before the authority expires which would or might require Relevant Securities to be allotted after the authority expires and the directors may allot Relevant Securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired."
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 99 | Notice of Meeting continued In this resolution, Relevant Securities means shares in the Company or rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company: a reference to the allotment of Relevant Securities includes the grant of such a right: and a reference to the nominal amount of a Relevant Security which is a right to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company is to the nominal amount of the shares which may be allotted pursuant to that right.
These authorities are in substitution for all existing authorities under section 551 of the Act which, to the extent unused at the date of this resolution, are revoked with immediate effect.
Special Resolutions To propose the following as special resolutions: 15.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 14 and pursuant to section 570 of the Act, the Directors be and are generally empowered to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authorities granted by resolution 14 as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities whether by way of a rights issue, open offer or otherwise, but, in the case of an allotment pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph a of resolution 14, such power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue : i to holders of Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company in proportion as nearly as practicable to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them: and ii to holders of other equity securities in the capital of the Company, as required by the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates or any legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange: and b the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph b of resolution 14 otherwise than pursuant to paragraph a of this resolution up to an aggregate nominal amount of 299,462.62, and unless previously revoked, varied or renewed this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on 5 September 2014 whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may make an offer or agreement before this power expires which would or might require equity securities to be allotted for cash after this power expires and the Directors may allot equity securities for cash pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if this power had not expired.
This power is in substitution for all existing powers under section 570 of the Act which, to the extent unused at the date of this resolution, are revoked with immediate effect.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases as defined in Section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary Shares, subject as follows: a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares which may be purchased is 5,704,050: b the minimum price including expenses to be paid for each Ordinary Share shall be the nominal value of the Ordinary Share and the maximum price is the higher of: i an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotation of the Companys Ordinary Shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange plc for the five business days immediately prior to the day on which the purchase is made: and ii an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an Ordinary Share and the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary Share on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
Unless previously revoked, varied or renewed the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on 5 September 2014 whichever is earlier, except in relation to the purchase of shares the contract for which was entered into before the expiry of such authority and such purchase will or may be executed or completed wholly or partly after such expiry and accordingly the Company may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract as if this authority had not expired.
That a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on with not less than 14 clear days' notice.
Registered office: By order of the Board 4 King Edwards Court King Edwards Square Richard Portman Sutton Coldfield Company Secretary West Midlands B73 6AP 6 March 2013 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 100 | Our business Governance Financial statements Other information Notes: 1.
The right to vote at the meeting is determined by reference to the register of members.
Only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 4 June 2013 or, if the meeting is adjourned 6.00pm on the date which is two working days before the date of the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries in the register of members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote and the number of votes they may cast at the meeting.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and to vote may appoint, one or more proxies to attend and vote instead.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Completed proxy forms must be received by the Companys Registrar, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, no later than 48 hours before the time of the Annual General Meeting or in the event the meeting is adjourned, no later than 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting and should do on a separate proxy form, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
Failure to specify the number of shares each proxy appointment relates to or specifying a number which when taken together with the numbers of shares set out in the other proxy appointments is in excess of the number of shares held by the shareholder may result in the proxy appointment being invalid.
Additional proxy forms may be obtained by contacting the Company's registrar on 0871 384 2674 if calling from within the UK, or 44 0 121 415 7047 if calling from outside the UK or you may photocopy the proxy form.
You will need to state clearly on each proxy form the number of shares in relation to which the proxy is appointed.
You can only appoint a proxy using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
"The right of a member under Section 324 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act"" to appoint a proxy does not apply to a person nominated to enjoy information rights under Section 146 of the Act."
At the time of publication, calls to this number were charged at 8 pence per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
The appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member of the Company from attending, speaking and voting in person at the meeting if he or she so wishes.
In the case of shares held in uncertificated form, the Company pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only members registered on the register of members of the Company at 6.00pm on 4 June 2013 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after 6.00pm on 4 June 2013 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend, speak or vote at the meeting.
The following are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours from the date of this notice until the time of the meeting.
They will be available for at least 15 minutes prior to, and during, the Annual General Meeting: the register of Directors interests and those of their immediate families in the share capital of the Company: copies of the Directors service contracts and letters of appointment: and a copy of the Companys memorandum and articles of association.
Biographical details of those Directors who are offering themselves for re-election at the meeting are set out on pages 32 and 33 of the Annual Report 2012.
Total Voting Rights: As at 12 April 2013 being the last practicable date before the publication of this notice, the Company's issued share capital consists of 57,040,500 Ordinary Shares of 10.5 pence, carrying one vote each.
Shareholders have the right to ask questions at the meeting relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting in accordance with Section 319A of the Act.
The Company must answer any such question unless: a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or would involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
The information required by Section 311 of the Act to be published in advance of the meeting, which includes the matters set out in this notice and information relating to the voting rights of shareholders, is available at www.
Members can appoint proxies electronically by logging on to the website www.
You will need your voting reference numbers the voting ID, Task ID and shareholder reference number shown on your form of proxy.
Alternatively, if you have registered for a Shareview portfolio, please access the Equiniti shareview website at www.
co. uk, by entering your portfolio identification particulars and click on the link vote under your Dignity plc holding details.
For an electronic proxy appointment to be valid, the appointment must be received by no later than 11.00am on 4 June 2013 or if the meeting is adjourned no later than 48 hours excluding any part of the day that is not a working day before the time of the adjourned meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies for the meeting or any adjournment of it through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual available at www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds formerly CRESTCo's specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer's agent ID RA 19 by no later than 11.00am on 4 June 2013 or if the meeting is adjourned, no later than 48 hours excluding any part of a day that is not a working day before the time of any adjourned meeting.
No such message received through the CREST network after this time will be accepted.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his or her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
"Where a copy of this notice is being received by a person who has been nominated to enjoy information rights under Section 146 of the Act ""Nominee"" : a the Nominee may have a right under an agreement between the Nominee and the member by whom he was nominated, to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the meeting: or b if the Nominee does not have any such right or does not wish to exercise such right, the Nominee may have a right under any such agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights."
The statement of the rights of the shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 2, 3, 10 and 11 does not apply to a nominee.
The rights in such notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 101 | Notice of Meeting continued 13.
A shareholder which is a corporation may authorise one or more persons to act as its representative s at the meeting.
Each such representative may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual shareholder, provided that where there is more than one representative and the vote is otherwise than on a show of hands they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
A shareholder or shareholders meeting the qualification criteria set out in note 17 below may require the Company to give shareholders notice of a resolution which may properly be proposed and is intended to be proposed at the meeting in accordance with Section 338 of the Act.
A resolution may properly be proposed unless i it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Company's constitution or otherwise, ii it is defamatory of any person, or iii it is frivolous or vexatious.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes a resolution circulated pursuant to this right.
Any such request must: a identify the resolution of which notice is to be given, by either setting out the resolution in full or, if supporting a resolution requested by another shareholder, clearly identifying the resolution which is being supported: b comply with the requirements set out in note 18 below: and c be received by the Company no later than six weeks before the meeting.
A shareholder or shareholders meeting the qualification criteria set out in note 17 below may require the Company to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be included in the business in accordance with Section 338A of the 2006 Act.
A matter may properly be included unless i it is defamatory of any person, or ii it is frivolous or vexatious.
Any such request must: a identify the matter to be included in the business, by either setting out the matter in full or, if supporting a matter requested by another shareholder, clearly identifying the matter which is being supported: b set out the grounds for the request: c comply with the requirements set out in note 18 below: and d be received by the Company no later than six weeks before the meeting.
A shareholder or shareholders who meet the qualification criteria set out in note 17 below may require the Company to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter that such shareholders propose to raise at the meeting relating to either the audit of the Company's accounts including the auditors' report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting or any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last annual general meeting of the Company in accordance with Section 527 of the Act.
Any such request must: a identify the statement to which it relates, by either setting out the statement in full or, if supporting a statement requested by another shareholder, clearly identifying the statement which is being supported: b comply with the requirements set out in note 18 below: and c be received by the Company at least one week before the meeting.
Where the Company is required to publish such a statement on its website: i it may not require the shareholders making the request to pay any expenses incurred by the Company in complying with the request: ii it must forward the statement to the Company's auditors no later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website: and iii the statement may be dealt with as part of the business of the meeting.
In order to require the Company i to circulate a resolution to be proposed at the meeting as set out in note 14, ii to include a matter in the business to be dealt with at the meeting as set out in note 15, or iii to publish audit concerns as set out in note 16, the relevant request must be made by: a a shareholder or shareholders having a right to vote at the meeting and holding at least five per cent of the total voting rights of the Company: or b at least 100 shareholders having a right to vote at the meeting and holding, on average, at least 100 of paid up share capital.
For information on voting rights, including the total voting rights of the Company, see note 7 above and the website referred to in note 9 above.
Any request by a shareholder or shareholders to require the Company i to circulate a resolution to be proposed at the meeting as set out in note 14, ii to include a matter in the business to be dealt with at the meeting as set out in note 15, or iii to publish audit concerns as set out in note 16: a may be made either: i in hard copy, by sending it to Dignity plc, 4 King Edwards Court, King Edwards Square, Sutton Coldfield, B73 6AP: or ii in electronic form, by faxing it to 44 0 121 321 5644, marked for the attention of the Company Secretary or by e-mail to CompanySecretary@dignityuk.
"co. uk please state ""Dignity plc: AGM"" in the subject line of the email : b must state the full name s and address es of the shareholder s : and c where the request is made in hard copy form must be signed by the shareholder s. 19."
Except as provided above, shareholders who wish to communicate with the Company in relation to the meeting should do so using the following means: a calling our shareholder helpline on 44 0 871 384 2674: or b by post, by sending it to Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
You may not use any electronic address provided in either this Notice of General Meeting or any related documents including the Proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
No other methods of communication will be accepted.
Any electronic communication sent by a shareholder to the Company or Equiniti which is found to contain a virus will not be accepted by the Company.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 102 |
