Corporate Governance Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The directors are responsible for maintaining adequate accounting and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and records and sufficient internal controls to safeguard the assets of regulations.
English company law requires the directors to prepare the Company and to take reasonable steps for the prevention and financial statements for each financial year and under that law, the detection of fraud or any other irregularities and for the preparation directors have prepared the Group and the Company financial of a directors report and directors remuneration report which statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation profit or loss of the Group for the period.
In preparing the financial and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation statements, the directors are also required to: in other jurisdictions.
Q Properly select and apply accounting policies: Each of the directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Q Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Q The Group and Company financial statements give a true and fair that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit loss of information: and the Group and Company, respectively: and Q Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic Q The business and financial review contained in this Annual Report requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand and Accounts includes a fair review of the development and the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions performance of the business and the position of the Group and on the financial position and financial performance.
Company together with a description of the principal risks and In preparing both the Group and the Company financial statements, uncertainties they face.
suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, By Order of the Board and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
Applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis as disclosed in the Statutory Information section of the Directors Report and Business Review.
Sebastian James Humphrey Singer Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 21 June 2012 21 June 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Dixons Retail plc 67
