Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement of Compliance with IFRS The financial statements of Dominos Pizza Group plc and its subsidiaries the Group for the 53 weeks ended 30 December 2012 were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 22 February 2013 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Lee Ginsberg.
Dominos Pizza Group plc is a public limited company the Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 registration number 03853545.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and its registered address is 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB.
The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the Official List of the FSA and traded on the main market of the LSE.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted bythe European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the period ended 30 December 2012.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted bythe European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the 53 weeks ended 30 December 2012 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the 53 weeks ended 30 December 2012.
The Group financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except when otherwise indicated.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Grouphas adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Please refer to the Directors Report for further details.
Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the period.
Thenature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
The following judgements apart from those involving estimates have had the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financialstatements: A key judgement was required in determining the impact of the acquisition of Dominos Leasing Limited during the 52 weeks ended 27December 2009.
This has been accounted for as a business combination in accordance with IFRS3 and resulted in the recognition ofdeferred tax assets, contingent consideration and a credit to the income statement relating to the accounting for the excess of fair valueof net assets over consideration.
See note 22 for further details.
Had this transaction been accounted for as an asset purchase, thedeferred tax assets and day one exceptional credit in the income statement would not have been reflected.
Instead, the Group tax charge would have benefitted from tax relief over the period of the leases acquired with Dominos Leasing Limited.
Franchisees within the Dominos Pizza system pay a percentage of their sales into a central fund designed to build store sales through increased public recognition of the Dominos Pizza brand.
The Fund is managed for the benefit of franchisees in the system with the objective of driving revenues for the franchised stores.
The Fund is used to pay for national marketing strategies and promotional plans.
The Fund is planned to operate at breakeven with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance sheet.
As all Fund income is designated for specific purposes and does not result in a profit or loss for the Group, the revenue recognition criteria as outlined in our accounting policy are not met and therefore the income and expenses of the Fund are not included in the groupincome statement.
The assets and liabilities relating to the Fund are included in the appropriate headings in the Group balance sheet as the related legal, butnot beneficial, rights and obligations rest with the Group.
These assets and liabilities include the short-term timing surpluses and deficits and any receivables and payables related to the fund.
The cash flows relating to the fund are included within Cash generated from operations in the Group statement of cash flows due to the close interrelationship between the Fund and the trading operations of the Group.
The following estimates are dependent upon assumptions which could change in the next financial year and have a material effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities recognised at the balance sheet date: A key source of estimation uncertainty that has a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year is the estimation of share-based payment costs.
The estimation of share-based payment costs requires the selection of an appropriate valuation model, consideration as to the inputs necessary for the valuation model chosen and the estimation of the number of awards that will ultimately vest, inputs for which arise from judgements relating to the probability of meeting non-market performance conditions and the continuing participation of employees.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority.
The final resolution ofcertain of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash flow variances.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 73 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Residual values and useful lives are determined with reference to manufacturers guidelines, past experience and market trends.
If useful lives were shorter than estimated a reassessment of the future depreciation charge may be required.
Useful lives are reassessed annually which may lead to an increase or reduction in depreciation accordingly.
Determining the fair value of acquired intangible assets and goodwill acquired in business combinations requires the use of estimates regarding the value of the intangible assets and deferred consideration payable in particular.
These values are determined using discounted cash flows based on latest approved budgets which necessarily include estimates concerning factors such as levels of sales and timing of store openings.
Subsequent impairment reviews also require the use of estimates to value the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
Basis of consolidation The full year consolidated financial statements incorporate the results and net assets of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to the nearest Sunday to 31 December each year.
The interim results are prepared for the first 26 weeks of the relevant full period.
Basis of consolidation from 1 January 2010 Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation ofthe consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
All inter-company transactions and balances between Group entities, including unrealised profits arising from them, areeliminated upon consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it i derecognises the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: ii derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest: iii derecognises the cumulative translation differences and any gains on losses on transactions with owners in their capacity as owners recorded in equity: iv recognises the fair value of any investment retained: vi recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss: vii reclassifies the parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly and indirectly, to the parent company and is presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance.
Certain of the above-mentioned requirements were applied on a prospective basis.
The following differences are carried forward in certain instances from the previous basis of consolidation: Non-controlling interests represent the portion of the profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the group and is presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
Acquisition of noncontrolling interests, prior to 1 January 2010, were accounted for using the parent entity extension method, whereby, the difference between the consolidation and the book value of the share of the net assets acquired were recognised in goodwill.
Losses incurred by the Group were attributed to the non-controlling interest until the balance was reduced to nil.
Any further excess losses were attributed to the parent, unless the non-controlling interest had a binding obligation to cover these.
Losses prior to 1 January 2010 were not allocated between non-controlling interests and the parent shareholders.
Upon loss of control, the Group accounted for the investment retained at its proportionate share of net asset value at the date of control waslost.
The carrying value of such investments at 1 January 2010 has not been restated.
Interests in associates and joint ventures The Groups interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The Group has also entered into a number of contractual arrangements with other parties which represent joint ventures.
These take the form of agreements to share control over other entities.
Where the joint venture is established through an interest in a company, the Group recognises its interest in the entities assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or joint venture is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate or joint venture, less distributions received and less any impairment in value ofindividual investments.
The Groups income statement reflects the Groups share of the associate or joint ventures results after tax.
The Group statement of changes in equity reflects the Groups share of any income and expense recognised by the associate or joint venture outside profit and loss.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate or joint venture, representing the excess of the cost of the investment compared to the Groups share of the net fair value of the associate or joint ventures identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of the associate or joint venture and is not amortised.
To the extent that the net fair value of the associate or joint ventures identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised and added tothe Groups share of the associate or joint ventures profit or loss in the period in which the investment is acquired.
74 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 2.
Accounting policies continued Interests in associates and joint ventures continued Financial statements of associates and joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used in line with those of the Group: to take into account fair values assigned at the date of acquisition and to reflect impairment losses where appropriate.
Adjustments are also made in the Groups financial statements to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures.
Foreign currencies Foreign operations The income and expenses of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the spot rate on the transaction date.
The balance sheet of the overseas subsidiary undertaking is translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are included in other comprehensive income and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed.
The Group utilised the exemption available in IFRS 1 whereby cumulative translation differences were deemed to be zero at 1 January 2006 the date of transition to IFRS.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Foreign currency transactions Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement for the period.
Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations from 1 January 2010 Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at the acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets isdetermined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation inaccordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquire over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criterion are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be measured reliably.
If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combinations is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
When goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with theoperation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 75 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Business combinations and goodwill continued Business combinations prior to 1 January 2010 Business combinations were accounted for using the purchase method.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition formed part of the acquisition costs.
The minority interest is accounted for using the parent-entity extension method, whereby the difference between the consideration paid and the book value of the share in the net assets acquired is recognised in goodwill.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
If the net fair value of the acquired entitys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
Goodwill recognised as an asset at 31 December 2003 is recorded at its carrying amount under UK GAAP and is not amortised.
Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying amount being reviewed for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value maybe impaired.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to cash generated units is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of theunit, or of an operation within it.
Contingent consideration was recognised if, and only if, the Group had a present obligation, the economic outflow was more likely than not and a reliable estimate was determinable.
Subsequent adjustments to the contingent consideration were recognised as part of goodwill.
Intangible assets Computer software Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment loss.
Externally acquired computer software and software licences are capitalised at the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Internally developed computer software programs are capitalised to the extent that costs can be separately identified and attributed to particular software programs, measured reliably, and that the asset developed can be shown to generate future economic benefits.
These assets are considered to have finite useful lives and are amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of each of the assets, considered to be between three and five years.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual values, on a straight-line method on the following bases: Freehold land Not depreciated Freehold buildings 50 years Assets under construction Not depreciated Leasehold improvements Over the life of the lease Fixtures and fittings Over 5 to 10 years Commissary equipment Over 3 to 30 years The assets residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, on an annual basis.
The majority of assets within commissary equipment are being depreciated over ten years or more.
An item of property, plant and equipment isderecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is includedin the income statement in the year that the asset is derecognised.
All items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Prepaid short leasehold costs Prepaid short leasehold property costs are classified as current and non-current prepayments.
On initial recognition these assets are held atcost and subsequently at amortised cost over the length of the lease.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through sale rather than continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met if a sale is expected to materialise within twelve months after the balance sheet date and the asset is available for immediate disposal in its present condition.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
After classification as assets held for sale, no further depreciation is provided for on the assets.
76 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 2.
Accounting policies continued Leases Group as lessee Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held as finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest in the remaining balance of the liability.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the assets and the lease term.
Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance sheet.
Rental payments are charged directly to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives, primarily up-front cash payments or rent-free periods, are capitalised and spread over the period of the lease term.
Payments made to acquire operating leases are treated as prepaid lease expenses and amortised over the life of the lease.
Group as lessor Assets leased out under operating leases are included in property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives.
Rental income, including the effect of lease incentives, is recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Where the Group transfers substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset, the arrangement is classified as a finance lease and a receivable is recognised for the initial direct costs of the lease and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance income is recognised in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of return on the remaining net investment in the lease.
Impairment of assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, orwhen annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined foran individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups ofassets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down toits recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses oncontinuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impairedasset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is probable that anoutflow of economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably measured.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheetdate, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cashflows where the impact of discounting ismaterial.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Present obligations arising under onerous lease contracts are recognised and measured as provisions.
An onerous contract is considered to exist when the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first in, first out basis.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to disposal.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 77 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 7 28 days terms, are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made when it is likely that the balance will not be recovered in full.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is considered remote.
The Group provides interest free loans to assist franchisees in the opening of new stores, the difference between the present value of loan recognised and the cash advanced has been capitalised as an intangible asset in recognition of the future value that will be generated via the royalty income and commissary sales that will be generated.
These assets are amortised over the life of new franchise agreement of 10 years.
National advertising fund In addition to franchise fees, franchisees pay contributions which are collected by the Group for specific use within the National advertising fund.
The Group operates the funds on behalf of the franchisees with the objective of driving revenues for their stores.
The fund is specifically used to pay for marketing and advertising.
The fund is planned to operate at breakeven with any short term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance sheet within working capital.
As all fund contributions are designated for specific purposes and do not result in a profit or loss for the Group, revenue recognition criteria are not met and therefore the income and expenses of the fund are not included in the Group income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Group becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially atfairvalue less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance revenue and finance cost.
Income taxes Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the tax bases and the accounting bases of assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax is calculated on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing ofthe reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or losses can be utilised.
Income tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income or to equity, in which case the income tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity respectively.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax relates to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction on either the same taxable entity, or on different taxable entities which intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities are expected to be settled or recovered.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
Pensions The Group contributes to the personal pension plans of certain staff.
The contributions are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as an accrual at that date.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Capital reserve own shares Dominos Pizza Group plc shares held by the Company and the Group are classified in shareholders equity as Capital reserve own shares and are recognised at cost.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase or sale of such shares.
The Employee Benefit Trust EBT has waived its entitlement to dividends.
The Group will meet the expenses of the EBT as and when they falldue.
78 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 2.
Accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration net of returns, rebates and value-added taxes.
The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of goods Revenue from pizza delivery, commissary and equipment sales is recognised on delivery to customers and franchisees.
Franchise fees The franchise fee is effectively a joining fee, it is non-refundable and no element of the franchise fee relates to subsequent services.
Revenue from franchisee fees is recognised when a franchisee opens a store for trading.
Royalties Royalties are based on Dominos Pizza store sales to customers and are recognised as the income is earned.
Rental income Rental income arising from leasehold properties is recognised on a straight line basis in accordance with the lease terms.
Finance income Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues, using the effective interest method.
Finance lease interest income is recognised assetout in the leasing accounting policy.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are generally expensed as incurred.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset are capitalised while the asset is being constructed as part of the cost of that asset.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other finance costs that the Group incurs.
The policy is adopted for all assets that meet the definition of qualifying assets under IAS 23.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs should commence when: expenditures for the asset and borrowing costs are being incurred: and activities necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use are in progress.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs ceases when the asset is substantially ready for its intended use.
If active development is interrupted for an extended period, capitalisation is suspended.
When construction occurs piecemeal and use of each part is possible as construction continues, capitalisation for each part ceases on substantial completion of that part.
For borrowing associated with a specific asset, the actual borrowing costs less any investment income on temporary investment of those borrowings are capitalised.
To the extent funds are borrowed generally and used for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation shall be determined by applying a capitalisation rate to the expenditure on that asset.
The capitalisation rate shall be the weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to the borrowings of the entity that are outstanding during the period, other than borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset.
Exceptional items The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better trends in financial performance.
Share-based payments The Group provides benefits to employees including Directors in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as consideration for equity instruments equity-settled transactions.
The cost of the equity-settled transactions with employees and Directors is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair values of employee share option plans are calculated using the Black-Scholes and Binomial models.
In valuing equity settled transactions, no account is taken of any service and performance vesting conditions, other than performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the grant date fair value.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or nonvesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided thatall other performance conditions and or service conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period hasexpired and the Directors best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest on achievement or otherwise ofnon-market conditions or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vested as described above.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 79 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Share-based payments continued The movement in the cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with the corresponding increase in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in theincome statement for the award is expensed immediately.
This includes any where non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
All cancellations of equity-settled transaction awards are treated equally.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess overfair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share further details are given in note 12.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards so as to apply IFRS 2 only to those equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 3 January 2005.
New standards and interpretations not applied At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in thesefinancial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU, none of which areanticipated to significantly impact the Groups results or assets and liabilities and are not expected to require significant disclosure.
Effective date International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Amendment to IFRS 7: Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2013 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 1 January 2015 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2013 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2013 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2013 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 International Accounting Standards IAS Amendment to IAS 1: Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income 1 July 2012 IAS 27 Revised 2011 Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2013 IAS 28 Revised 2011 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2013 Amendment to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014 Required to be applied no later than the first accounting period starting on or after 1 January 2014 but early adoption is permitted.
Revenue Revenue recognised in the income statement is analysed as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Royalties and sales to franchisees 226,053 196,135 Rental income on leasehold and freehold property 14,121 13,416 Finance lease income 350 312 240,524 209,863 80 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 4.
Segment information For management purposes, the Group is organised into four geographical business units, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany and Switzerland, based on the territories governed by the Master Franchise Agreement MFA.
These are considered to be the Groups operating segments as the information provided to the chief operating decision makers, who are considered to be the Executive Directors of the Board, is based on these territories.
Revenue included in each includes all sales royalties, commissary sales, rental income and finance lease income made to franchise stores located in that segment.
Segment results for the Ireland segment include both the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland as both of these territories are served by the same commissary.
The new Switzerland operating segment is in respect of business acquired in Switzerland during the period.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss.
Group financing including finance costs and finance revenue and income taxes are managed on a group basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
Unallocated assets include cash and cash equivalents and taxation assets.
Unallocated liabilities include the bank revolving facility, bank loans, deferred consideration and taxation liabilities.
At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Deferred tax asset 12,533 16,349 Cash and cash equivalents 21,975 24,427 Unallocated assets 34,508 40,776 Deferred consideration Dominos Leasing 8,161 10,039 Current tax liabilities 4,985 4,248 Deferred tax liabilities 1,111 1,078 Bank revolving facility 29,737 25,000 Bank loans 12,035 12,035 Unallocated liabilities 56,029 52,400 www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 81 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 4.
82 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 5.
Group operating profit This is stated after charging: 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,535 2,143 Amortisation of prepaid lease charges 198 142 Amortisation of intangible assets 1,985 995 Total depreciation and amortisation expense 4,718 3,280 Operating lease payments minimum lease payments land and buildings 14,747 13,678 plant, machinery and vehicles 2,721 2,478 Total operating lease payments recognised in the income statement 17,468 16,156 Loss profit on disposal of non-current assets 12 119 Net foreign currency loss 107 173 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 105,542 95,518 Write-down of inventories to net realisable value 48 6.
Auditors remuneration The Group paid the following amounts to its auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to theGroup: 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Audit of the financial statements 122 111 Audit of subsidiaries 59 34 Total audit 181 145 Audit related assurance services 16 16 Total non-audit services 16 16 Total fees 197 161 of which 2,000 2011: 2,000 relates to the Company.
Exceptional items a Recognised as part of operating profit 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Acquisition costs and restructuring costs relating to Dominos Pizza Switzerland 2,365 Acquisition costs and one off costs relating to new UK joint ventures 620 Restructuring and reorganisation costs 800 Onerous lease provision 525 938 Impairment costs 243 837 Acquisition costs and one off costs relating to Dominos Pizza Germany 1,232 4,553 3,007 Acquisition costs and restructuring costs relating to Dominos Pizza Switzerland Costs of 2,365,000 have been incurred during the period in relation to the acquisition and restructuring of Dominos Pizza Switzerland see note 19.
This includes the recognition of a 1,347,000 provision for restructuring costs see note 28 and one-off costs relating to theacquisition of 1,018,000. www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 83 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 7.
Exceptional items continued a Recognised as part of operating profit continued Acquisition costs and one off costs relating to new UK Joint Ventures Costs of 620,000 have been incurred during the period in relation to the acquisition of two companies, DA Hall Trading Limited and DAHT Limited, and the subsequent establishment of two new joint ventures with third party franchisees.
Further details about these transactions are included in note 18.
Restructuring and reorganisation costs During the period the Group has undertaken a review of all of its head office central overhead departments in order to create efficiencies and streamline processes.
As a result of this review, restructuring and reorganisation costs of 800,000 were incurred.
Onerous lease provision A provision of 938,000 was made in the period ended 25 December 2011 in relation to the rent obligation for the three Dominos stores closed during the period and other onerous leases identified.
During the current period, as detailed in note 28, the provision has been increased by 271,000.
This takes account of three further Irish sub-leases which have become onerous 886,000 and the release of part of the 2011 provision following the surrender of one of the leases 361,000.
Acquisition costs and one off costs relating to Dominos Pizza Germany Costs of 1,232,000 were incurred during the period ended 25 December 2011 in relation to the acquisition of DP Cyco Limited formerly Intergrowth Enterprises Limited, the master franchisor for Dominos Pizza Germany.
Impairment costs The Group undertook a review of certain of its assets previously held for sale as at 25 December 2011.
As a result of the review the assets were considered to no longer meet the criteria to be disclosed as held for sale.
On transfer back into property, plant and equipment the Group identified that the carrying value of these assets exceeded the recoverable amount and an impairment of 837,000 was recognised in relation to four of the stores held for sale.
In the period ended 30 December 2012 an impairment of 243,000 has been recognised relating to assets at one store closed during the year.
b Recognised below operating profit Profit on the sale of subsidiary undertaking During the period ended 30 December 2012, the Group recognised a profit on the sale of a subsidiary of 507,000 see note 20 for furtherdetails.
Unwinding of discount Included within finance costs is a charge of 286,000 2011: 360,000 relating to the unwinding of the discount on the deferred consideration payable in relation to the acquisition of Dominos Leasing Limited.
Change in tax rates During the period the Group has incurred an exceptional tax charge of 1,055,000 2011: 1,272,000 in relation to an adjustment to deferred tax following a change in tax law.
The financial statements reflect the corporation tax rate changes announced by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his budget on 21 March 2012 and in his Autumn statement of 5 December 2012 to 23% from April 2013, as these changes have been enacted at the period end.
The impact of these tax rate changes has been classified as exceptional due to its material impact on the Groups tax charge for the period.
This charge is reduced by 314,000 to 741,000 due to the tax impact of other exceptional items discussed above 2011: reduced by 90,000 to 1,182,000.
Employee benefits and directors remuneration a Employee benefits expense 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Wages and salaries 20,904 17,056 Social security costs 2,346 1,749 Other pension costs 457 403 Share-based payment charge 2,357 1,499 26,064 20,707 84 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 8.
Employee benefits and directors remuneration continued a Employee benefits expense continued The average monthly number of employees during the year was made up as follows: 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Administration 219 201 Production and distribution 253 233 Corporate stores 258 121 730 555 b Directors remuneration 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Directors remuneration 2,010 1,967 Aggregate contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 102 115 Number of directors accruing benefits under: Defined contribution schemes 2 3 Additional information regarding directors remuneration is included in the Directors remuneration report on pages 52 to 64.
Finance income 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Bank interest receivable 84 161 Franchisee loans 81 39 Other interest 359 134 Unwinding of discount non exceptional 82 Total finance income 606 334 The finance income relates to financial assets at amortised cost.
Total interest on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, including finance lease revenue is 956,000 2011: 646,000.
Finance expense 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Bank loan in relation to the EBT 181 167 Bank revolving credit facility interest payable 528 325 Other interest payable 72 59 Unwinding of discount exceptional 286 360 Unwinding of discount non exceptional 346 1,413 911 The finance expense relates to financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Total interest on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit orloss, including loans cost related to DP Capital Limited and Dominos Leasing Limited reported within cost of sales is 1,710,000 2011:1,169,000.
In the period to 30 December 2012 no interest was capitalised under IAS 23 2011: 54,000 included in additions inthe period in note 14, resulting in total cash flows relating to interest payable of 863,000 www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 85 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 11.
Taxation a Tax on profit on ordinary activities Tax charged in the income statement 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Current income tax: UK corporation tax current period 8,387 5,885 adjustment in respect of prior periods 475 32 7,912 5,853 Income tax of overseas operations on profits for the period 364 349 Total current income tax 8,276 6,202 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2,586 4,874 Effect of change in tax rate 1,055 1,272 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 145 25 Total deferred tax 3,786 6,121 Tax charge in the income statement 12,062 12,323 The tax charge in the income statement is disclosed as follows: Income tax expense on continuing operations 12,062 12,323 Tax relating to items credited charged to equity: Reduction in current tax liability as a result of the exercise of share options 856 218 Origination and reversal of temporary differences in relation to unexercised share options 63 177 Tax credit in the Group statement of changes in equity 793 41 There is no tax impact in relation to the foreign exchange differences in the statement of comprehensive income.
b Reconciliation of the total tax charge The tax expense in the income statement for the 53 weeks ended 30 December 2012 is higher than the statutory corporation tax rate of 24.5% 2011: 26.5%.
The differences are reconciled below: 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Profit before taxation 42,369 38,789 Accounting profit multiplied by the UK statutory rate of corporation tax of 24.5% 2011: 26.5% 10,380 10,279 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 597 677 Accounting depreciation not eligible for tax purposes 201 181 Adjustments relating to prior years 330 61 Adjustment to deferred tax in respect of change in tax law 1,055 1,272 Other 457 315 Tax rate differences 298 340 Total tax expense reported in the income statement 12,062 12,323 Effective tax rate % 28.5 31.8 Effective tax rate pre exceptional items % 24.2 26.4 In his budget on 21 March 2012 and then in his Autumn Statement of 5 December 2012, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced tax changes, which have an effect on the Groups current and future tax position.
The changes announced were further decreases from the planned rate of UK corporation tax of 25% to 23% from April 2012 and by a further 1% each year to 21% from April 2014.
The reduction ofthe UK corporation tax rate to 24% from April 2012 and 23% from April 2013 had been substantively enacted during the year.
The effect of these changes to the UK tax system have been reflected in the Groups financial statements for the 53 weeks ending 30 December 2012 to the extent that they had been substantively enacted by that date.
The further reductions to 21% had not been substantively enacted at the year end and therefore are not reflected in these financial statements.
The maximum effect of the future reduction in the tax rate on the Groups deferred tax asset would be to reduce the asset by805,000 2011: 860,000.
The rate change will also impact the amount of future cash tax payments to be made in the Group.
86 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 11.
Taxation continued c Temporary differences associated with Group investments At 30 December 2012, there was no recognised deferred tax liability 2011: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of the Groups subsidiaries, or its associates and joint ventures, as there are no corporation tax consequences of the Groups UK, Irish or overseas subsidiaries or associates paying dividends to their parent companies.
There are no income tax consequences for the Group attaching to the payment of dividends by the Group to its shareholders.
d Deferred tax The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items 12,360 16,349 Deferred tax arising in Ireland and the UK on capital gains 108 55 Deferred tax arising on acquisition of subsidiary 1,023 Deferred tax arising on other overseas subsidiaries 830 11,422 15,271 At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Gross movement in the deferred income tax account Opening balance 15,271 22,614 Tax charge credit to equity 63 177 Income statement charge 3,786 6,121 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertaking 1,045 Closing balance 11,422 15,271 Deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items Accelerated Share-based capital Lease Goodwill and payments allowances inducements amortisation Provisions Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 26 December 2010 813 21,537 283 14 39 22,658 Charge to equity 177 177 Credit charge to income 126 6,426 30 1 197 6,132 At 25 December 2011 762 15,111 253 13 236 16,349 Charge to equity 63 63 Credit charge to income 112 4,034 46 42 3,926 At 30 December 2012 811 11,077 207 13 278 12,360 A deferred tax asset of 12,360,000 2011: 16,349,000 has been recognised to the extent that future taxable profits are expected to beinexcess of the profits arising from the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences.
The Group has tax losses of 824,000 2011: nil which arose in relation to the Swiss business during the period and are available for offset against future taxable profits in Switzerland.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in relation to these taxable losses in Switzerland on the basis that they are expected to be recovered in the near future.
In addition there are 940,000 losses 2011: 1,190,000 which have arisen in Germany and Cyprus in prior periods which are available for offset against future taxable profits in these jurisdictions.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses due to the uncertain timing of the availability of future profits in these territories.
Taxable losses that have arisen in the period in the German branch of Dominos Pizza Germany Limited are available to group relieve amongst the UK Group and have been fully utilised.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 87 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 11.
Taxation continued d Deferred tax continued Deferred tax arising in Ireland and the UK on capital gains Accelerated Roll over capital relief allowances Total 000 000 000 At 26 December 2010 26 18 44 Credit Charge to income 1 12 11 At 25 December 2011 25 30 55 Credit Charge to income 2 55 53 At 30 December 2012 23 85 108 Deferred tax arising on other overseas subsidiaries 000 At 26 December 2010 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertaking 1,045 Credit to income 22 At 25 December 2011 1,023 Credit to income 193 At 30 December 2012 830 Included within the above is a deferred tax asset of 173,000 2011: nil in relation to the recognition of Switzerland tax losses and a deferred tax liability relating to accelerated capital allowances in Switzerland.
There is also a deferred tax liability in respect of the Dominos Pizza Germany Group based on the amortised value of the Master Franchise Agreement and the related intangible asset arising on consolidation.
Deferred tax in respect of Switzerland cannot be offset against the deferred tax in respect of Germany as the Group does not have a legally enforceable right to offset these assets and liabilities due to them arising in differing territories.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would have been issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Profit for the period 30,307 26,466 Adjusted for non-controlling interests 603 280 Profit attributable to owners of the parent 30,910 26,746 At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 No.
Basic weighted average number of shares excluding treasury shares 162,337,757 160,677,858 Dilutive potential ordinary shares: Employee share options 808,996 716,109 Reversionary interests 815,792 1,230,921 Diluted weighted average number of shares 163,962,545 162,624,888 There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of completion of these financial statements.
The performance conditions for reversionary interests granted over 4,243,340 2011: 4,531,403 shares and share options granted over 4,198,563 2011: 3,662,061 shares have not been met in the current financial period and therefore the dilutive effect of the number of shares which would have been issued at the period end have not been included in the diluted earnings per share calculation.
There are no share options excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation because they are anti-dilutive 2011: 476,737.
See note32 for further information on reversionary interests and share options.
88 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 12.
Earnings per share continued Earnings per share pre exceptional items The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better the trends in financial performance.
To this end, basic and diluted earnings from continuing operations per share is also presented on this basis and using the weighted average number of shares for both basic and diluted amounts as per the table above.
The amounts for earnings per share from continuing operations before exceptional items are as follows: 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Basic earnings per share 22.17p 19.48p Diluted earnings per share 21.95p 19.24p Net profit before exceptional items and attributable to owners of the parent is derived as follows: 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Profit for the period 30,307 26,466 Adjusted for non-controlling interests 603 280 Profit attributable to owners of the parent 30,910 26,746 Exceptional items after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent 5,073 4,549 Acquisition costs and one off costs relating to Dominos Pizza Germany 1,232 Acquisition costs and restructuring costs relating to Dominos Pizza Switzerland 2,365 Acquisition costs and one off costs relating to new UK joint ventures 620 Restructuring and reorganisation costs 800 Onerous lease provision 525 938 Impairment 243 837 Profit on the sale of subsidiary undertaking 507 Unwinding of discount 286 360 Taxation impact 314 90 Change in corporation tax rate impact on deferred tax asset 1,055 1,272 Profit before exceptional items attributable to owners of the parent 35,983 31,295 13.
Dividends paid and proposed 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Declared and paid during the year: Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2011: 6.80p 2010: 5.70p 11,001 9,144 Interim dividend for 2012: 6.60p 2011: 5.50p 10,745 8,881 Dividends paid 21,746 18,025 Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM not recognised as a liability at 30 December 2012 or 25December2011 Final dividend for 2012: 7.90p 2011 6.80p 12,890 10,980 www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 89 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 14.
Capitalised interest Included within freehold land and buildings is an amount of 1,117,000 2011: 1,117,000 of capitalised interest, of which nil 2011:54,000 was capitalised in the current period and included with additions.
This interest relates to the revolving credit facility usedtofinance the building of the new commissary and head office.
Tax relief on capitalised interest is claimed in full in the period inwhichthe interest is paid.
For details of property, plant and equipment pledged as security for liabilities see note26.
90 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 15.
Intangible assets Franchise Goodwill fees Software Other Total 000 000 000 000 000 Cost or valuation: At 26 December 2010 1,035 3,916 4,951 Additions 2,896 2,896 Acquisition of subsidiary 2,835 10,453 13,288 Disposals 1,834 1,834 Foreign exchange on translation 176 650 826 At 25 December 2011 2,659 10,838 4,978 18,475 Additions 349 3,025 552 3,926 Disposal of subsidiary 7 7 Foreign exchange on translation 5 93 98 Reclassification from property, plant and equipment 195 195 Acquisition of subsidiary 1,603 2,870 7 4,480 At 30 December 2012 4,257 13,957 8,205 552 26,971 Depreciation and impairment: At 26 December 2010 819 1,898 2,717 Provided during the year 285 710 995 Disposals 1,834 1,834 Foreign exchange on translation 14 14 At 25 December 2011 1,090 774 1,864 Provided during the year 400 1,555 30 1,985 Disposal of subsidiary 2 2 Foreign exchange on translation 20 20 Reclassification from property plant and equipment 52 52 At 30 December 2012 1,468 2,381 30 3,879 Net book value at 30 December 2012 4,257 12,489 5,824 522 23,092 Net book value at 25 December 2011 2,659 9,748 4,204 16,611 Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination or are established as a result of the business combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Germany 2,617 2,659 Switzerland 1,640 0 4,257 2,659 The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from fair value less costs to sell FVLCS calculations.
The key assumptions for the valuations are those regarding discount rates, store openings and expected changes to level of sales in stores.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs.
Growth rates are based on market growth forecasts.
Changes in levels of AWUS average weekly unit sales and store openings are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next five years and extrapolates cashflows for the remaining term of the MFA based on the average long-term growth rate of 1.4% for Germany and 1.7% for Switzerland which does not exceed the average long term growth rate for the relevant markets.
The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows from the Germany CGU is 12.0% and from the Swiss CGU is 12.5%.
The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of each CGUs carrying value including reducing sales level and changing discount rates.
At 30 December 2012 no reasonably expected change in the key assumptions to the German CGU would give rise to an impairment charge.
Given the proximity of our Swiss acquisition to the year end, the FVLCS calculated is not significantly higher than the carrying value of the CGU.
As such, changes in key assumptions such as an increase in the discount rate by 1% would result in the carrying value of goodwill being reduced to its recoverable amount.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 91 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 15.
Intangible assets continued Franchise fees consist of costs relating to the Master Franchise Agreement MFA for the UK and Ireland, Germany and Switzerland.
The UKand Ireland MFA runs into perpetuity, with a development clause which is renewable on a 10 year basis.
The German MFA has a term of30years and the addition in the period relates to the Swiss MFA which also has a term of 30 years.
During the period ended 30 December 2012, the Group has purchased from Dominos Pizza International Franchising Inc. an option to acquire the master franchise rights for Dominos Pizza in Austria for 217,000.
The option expires on 31 December 2014 and provides a further opportunity for growth by building on Dominos presence in central Europe.
An asset has been recognised in the year of 552,000 2011: nil in relation to interest free loans given to franchisees to assist in the opening of new stores.
The difference between the present value of loan recognised and the cash advanced has been capitalised as an intangible asset in recognition of the future value that will be generated.
The amortisation of intangible assets is included within administration expenses in the income statement.
Prepaid operating lease charges At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Balance at the beginning of the period 841 708 Additions 1,050 275 Foreign exchange on translation 3 Amortisation 198 142 Balance at the end of the period 1,696 841 Analysed as follows: Non-current assets 1,479 676 Current assets 217 165 1,696 841 92 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 17.
Financial assets The balance shown in franchisee leasing consists of leases over store equipment granted to franchisees on terms of between one and five years bearing interest at fixed rates of an average of 7.1% 2011: 8.1%.
Other leases include leases over assets which were acquired with Dominos Leasing Limited.
They are repayable over terms of up to five years and bear interest at 0.5% above LIBOR.
Investments in associates and joint ventures At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Investment in associates 1,514 1,423 Investment in joint ventures 4,731 6,245 1,423 a Investments in associates The Group has a 41% interest in Full House Restaurants Limited, a 50% interest in Mungo Park and a 50% interest in Dominoid Limited, private companies which manage pizza delivery stores in the United Kingdom.
These interests are accounted for as associates as Group has significant influence but does not control the entities or have joint control.
Summarised financial information for significant associates is aggregated below: At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Share of the associates balance sheet: Current assets 564 518 Non-current assets 2,388 2,335 Current liabilities 650 475 Non-current liabilities 788 955 Share of net assets 1,514 1,423 www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 93 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 18.
Investments in associates and joint ventures continued Share of associates revenue and profit: 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Revenue 8,622 7,623 Profit after tax for the year 166 335 b Investments in joint ventures On 29 July 2012 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of two companies, DA Hall Trading Limited and DAHT Limited.
Thesecompanies owned and operated eight stores in the United Kingdom.
The companies were acquired with the intention to establish twonew joint ventures with third party franchisees.
As such, these entities were classified as held for sale under IFRS 5 and the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired were measured at fair value.
The identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in the two companies was 344,000 along with intangibles of 4,336,000.
The consideration of 4,681,000 was satisfied by cash.
On 2 December 2012, the share capital of the companies acquired was contributed into the first of the two joint ventures, Dominos Pizza West Country Limited West Country along with a company previously controlled by the joint venture party.
West Country is accounted foras a joint venture as the Group has joint control through voting rights and share ownership as well as being party to a joint venture agreement which ensures that strategic, financial and operational decisions relating to the joint venture activities require the unanimous consent of the two joint venture parties.
On 9 December 2012, the share capital of two subsidiary companies of DA Hall Trading Limited and DAHT Limited was transferred into the other joint venture company, DP Shayban Limited DP Shayban, along with the share capital of three companies previously controlled by the other joint venture party.
As with West Country, DP Shayban is accounted for as a joint venture due to the Groups joint control as set outin the joint venture agreement for the same reasons as set above.
During the period from 29 July 2012 to 2 December 2012 the wholly owned subsidiaries held for resale generated profit of 228,000.
Due to the substance of the acquisition which was completed as part of an overall transaction to establish the joint venture entities, the Directors have deemed it inappropriate to present the contribution from these companies within the operating results of the Group and have therefore included the profits within the income from associates and joint ventures.
No further disclosures have been included regarding the initial business combination due to the purchase being for resale within the year.
At 30 December 2012 DP Shayban West Country Total 000 000 000 Share of joint ventures balance sheets: Current assets 214 330 544 Non-current assets 1,969 3,026 4,995 Current liabilities 405 304 709 Non-current liabilities 30 77 107 Share of net assets 1,748 2,975 4,723 Share of joint ventures revenue and profit: 53 weeks ended 30 December 2012 DP Shayban West Country Total 000 000 000 Revenue 199 305 503 Profit after tax for the year 27 15 42 During the period to 30 December 2012 the Group also invested in two further entities which are jointly controlled and therefore deemed to be joint ventures.
An investment of 12,500 was made to acquire 50% of the share capital of Deutsche Dominoid GmbH and 10,000 was made to acquire 40% of the share capital of HJS Pizza Deutschland GmbH.
Both entities have been established in order to facilitate the opening of new stores in the German market.
Due to the start up nature of these entities, losses were incurred during the period in Deutsche Dominoid GmbH which have exceeded the Groups interest in the joint venture.
The Groups share of unrecognised losses for the period to 30 December 2012 was 210,000.
HJS Pizza Deutschland GmbH began trading on 28 December 2012 and generated nil profit to 30 December 2012.
94 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 19. Business combinations On 24 September 2012, the Group acquired the trade and assets of Dominos Pizza Switzerland AG into a wholly owned subsidiary, DP Cyco Switzerland Limited, and its wholly owned subsidiary, Dominos Pizza GmbH known collectively as Dominos Switzerland.
These assets included the master franchise agreement for the territory which provides the Company with the exclusive right to operate and franchise Dominos Pizza stores in Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Luxembourg.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Dominos Switzerland as at the date of acquisition were as follows: Fair value to Group 000 Master franchise agreement 2,870 Other intangible assets 7 Property, plant & equipment 244 Inventory 143 Trade and other receivables 238 Cash and cash equivalents 7 Trade and other payables 463 Net assets acquired 3,046 Goodwill 1,603 Total acquisition cost 4,649 Discharged by: Cash consideration 3,562 Deferred consideration 1,087 4,649 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 3,562 Less: cash and cash equivalent balances acquired 7 3,555 Under the terms of the acquisition the Group purchased the business of Dominos Switzerland for a maximum consideration of CHF 7,000,000 4,645,000 in cash plus an amount for the stock, cash in tills and cash and rent deposits for CHF 369,000 245,000.
This consideration is being paid in two tranches.
The first tranche of CHF 5,000,000 3,318,000 was payable on completion and the second tranche of up to CHF 2,000,000 1,327,000 is payable two years from the date of completion and will be dependent upon the sales performance of the twelve Dominos Pizza stores in Switzerland which were acquired at completion.
The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement of 1,087,000 was estimated by applying a probability weighted average for anumber of scenarios based on performance against budget.
The impact of discounting was considered but as it was not material the contingent consideration recognised is undiscounted.
The potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the Group could berequired to make under the contingent consideration arrangement is between nil and CHF 2,000,000 1,327,000.
The goodwill of 1,063,000 arising from the acquisition represents the opportunities in the three territories together with the synergies obtainable through the economies of scale across the Group.
It has been allocated for impairment testing to the Swiss cash generating unit as described in note 15.
There is no tax deduction for the goodwill arising on the acquisition of Dominos Switzerland.
From the date of acquisition, Dominos Switzerland contributed 2,971,000 revenue and a loss of 254,000 pre-exceptional administration costs of 1,431,000.
If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the financial period the profit before tax excluding exceptional items would have been 45,780,000 and revenue from continuing operations would have been 250,702,000.
See note 7 for further details about acquisition costs and restructuring costs relating to the acquisition.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 95 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 20.
Disposal of subsidiary At 25 December 2011 the Group owned 75% of the share capital of DP Milton Keynes Limited DPMK.
This was increased to 100% on 24July 2012 following the acquisition of the remaining share capital for cash consideration of 402,000, resulting in a 225,000 loss on acquisition of the non-controlling interest which was recognised in reserves due to this being a transaction with owners in their capacity asowners.
On 21 December 2012 the Group disposed of 100% of its interest in DPMK for cash consideration of 840,000 less transaction costs of12,000.
The net assets at the date of disposal were 41,000.
A gain of 507,000 has been recognised on this disposal following recognition of the loss in reserves and an accrual of 55,000 for final settlement obligations.
000 Net cash inflow arising on disposal: Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 840 Disposal costs 12 Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of 7 821 21.
Inventories At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Raw materials 259 169 Finished goods and goods for sale 7,070 3,709 Total inventories at lower of cost or net realisable value 7,329 3,878 22.
Deferred and contingent consideration Deferred Contingent Total 000 000 000 At 26 December 2010 14,092 14,092 Paid during the period 4,413 4,413 Unwinding of discount 360 360 At 25 December 2011 10,039 10,039 Acquisition of subsidiary 1,087 1,087 Paid during the period 2,164 2,164 Unwinding of discount 286 286 Foreign exchange movements 26 26 At 30 December 2012 8,161 1,113 9,274 At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Current 1,199 2,164 Non-current 8,075 7,875 Total 9,274 10,039 On 1 July 2009, the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares of Dresdner Kleinwort Leasing March 2 Limited Dominos Leasing, aprivate company based in England which provides funding in the form of finance leases to a number of corporate clients.
As a company with an established leasing trade, Dominos Leasing owns the leased equipment and is entitled to an on-going rental income from each lease for the remaining term of that lease and it is entitled to certain tax reliefs from its ownership of that equipment.
On acquisition, the taxreliefs available had a total value of 29,240,000 and a deferred consideration of 15,364,000 was payable, the amount and timing ofwhich depends on the amount and timing of the benefits to the Group arising from this tax relief.
The deferred consideration is payable until April 2016.
Finance costs reflect the unwinding of the discount on contingent consideration.
Therefore, while the cash flow statements reflect lower taxpaid as a result of this transaction, this is partly offset by investing cashflow for the consideration paid.
During the period the Group has utilised 13,099,000 2011: 17,700,000 of the capital allowances which were acquired with Dominos Leasing.
The utilisation of these capital allowances reduces the value of the deferred tax asset which was recognised on acquisition, however results in no overall impact on the tax charge for the period as there is an equal and opposite reduction in the Groups corporation tax liability.
On 24 September 2012, the Group acquired the trade and assets of a business in Switzerland on which contingent consideration may be payable.
The fair value of contingent consideration has been estimated to be 1,087,000 see note 19 and is a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss.
96 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 23.
Trade and other receivables Included in non-current assets: At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 2,565 114 Loans to franchisees 6,155 1,464 Other receivables 1,490 1,127 10,210 2,705 Included in current assets: At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Trade receivables 8,403 6,462 Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 1,325 329 Loans to franchisees 3,193 745 Other receivables 12,603 9,612 Prepayments and accrued income 10,623 7,195 36,147 24,343 Financial assets at amortised cost.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Sterling 7,177 5,623 Euro 1,219 839 Swiss Franc 7 8,403 6,462 The Euro denominated receivables relate to franchisee receivables within the Groups Irish and German operations which have a Euro functional currency.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 7 28 days terms.
As at 30 December 2012, trade receivables at nominal value of 160,000 2011: 65,000 were provided for.
During the 53 weeks ended 30 December 2012 no bad debts were written off 2011:nil.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Neither past Past due but not impaired due nor Total impaired 30 days 30 days 000 000 000 000 As at 30 December 2012 8,403 5,687 1,246 1,470 As at 25 December 2011 6,462 5,797 70 595 Loans to franchisees Loans to franchisees are repayable within 1-5 years.
The loans are either interest free or bear interest on a quarterly basis at an average of 3.0% above LIBOR and are repaid in monthly or quarterly instalments.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 97 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 23.
Trade and other receivables continued Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Amounts owed by associates 2,427 443 Amounts owed by joint ventures 1,463 3,890 443 Included within the balance due from associates are loan balances totalling 1,797,000 2011: 120,000 due from Full House Restaurants Limited and 211,000 2011: nil due from Dominoid Limited.
Included within the balance due from joint ventures are loan balances of 549,000 due from DP Shayban Limited, 277,000 due from Dominos Pizza West Country Limited and 284,000 due from Deutsche Dominoid GmbH.
The terms of these loans are consistent with the loan terms provided to franchisees see above.
The remainder of the balance due from associates and joint ventures are trading balances.
An analysis is provided below of the movement in trading and loan balances with associates and joint ventures: Trading balance Loan balance Total 000 000 000 At 26 December 2010 320 173 493 Movement in trading balance 20 20 Repayment of loan balance 30 30 At 25 December 2011 300 143 443 Movement in trading balance 447 447 Repayment of loan balance 261 261 Increase in loan balance 3,261 3,261 At 30 December 2012 747 3,143 3,890 The movement in the trading balance is included within the increase in receivables in cash generated from operations in the cashflowstatement.
Other receivables Included in the current element of other receivables is the National Advertising Fund NAF balance of 5,562,000 2011: 5,475,000, due to the timing of the cash flows of the marketing activities committed to by the fund and the contributions received from the franchisees.
Total contributions made to the fund during the 53 weeks ended 30 December 2012 were 23,323,000 2011: 22,518,000.
The outstanding balance of the NAF bears interest at 4.5% above Barclays Bank plc base rate.
Cash and cash equivalents At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Cash at bank and in hand 8,891 6,363 Short-term deposits 13,084 18,064 21,975 24,427 Cash is denominated in the following currencies: At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Sterling 19,483 20,563 Euro 1,999 3,864 Swiss Franc 493 21,975 24,427 98 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 25.
Trade and other payables At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Trade payables 13,839 11,078 Other taxes and social security costs 3,730 1,995 Other payables 3,343 3,445 Accruals 20,771 12,926 41,683 29,444 Financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities: Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 7 30 day terms.
Other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of six months.
Financial liabilities At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Current Current instalments due on other loans 1,036 1,013 Current instalments due on non-recourse loans 2,604 516 Current instalments due on finance leases 101 Bank revolving facility 25,000 3,741 26,529 Non current Bank revolving facility 29,737 Non-current instalments due on bank loans 12,035 12,035 Non-current instalments due on other loans 3,953 3,760 Non-current instalments due on non-recourse loans 3,427 Non-current instalments on finance leases 127 45,852 19,222 Banking facilities Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates depending on the balance on deposit.
The interest rate applicable to the short-term deposits during the financial period was 0.25% 2011: 0.25%.
Bank revolving facility On 1 August 2012, the Group completed the refinancing of the existing 25,000,000 revolving credit facility with Barclays Bank plc, increasing it to a 30,000,000 facility.
The facility was fully drawn down at 30 December 2012 and has a five year term.
The interest is charged at 1.35% 2011: 0.5% per annum above LIBOR in addition to a 0.5% utilisation fee.
Arrangement fees of 298,000 directly incurred in relation to the re-financing were included in the carrying value of the facility and are being amortised over the term of the facility:at 30 December 2012, amortisation of 35,000 has been recognised against the carrying value of the facility.
The facility is secured byan unlimited cross guarantee between the Company, Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited, DPG Holdings Limited, DP Realty Limited, DP Pizza Limited and DP Group Developments Limited as well as negative pledges given by the Company, Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited, DPG Holdings Limited, DP Realty Limited, DP Pizza Limited and DP Group Developments Limited.
Bank overdraft facility On 5 October 2012, the Company obtained an overdraft facility from Barclays Bank plc for a maximum limit of 5,000,000 for working capital purposes.
The interest is charged at 1.25% per annum above LIBOR.
At 30 December 2012 there was nil drawdown on the facility.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 99 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 26.
Financial liabilities continued Bank loans The Group has entered into an agreement to obtain bank loans and mortgage facilities.
These are secured by a fixed and floating charge over the Groups assets and an unlimited guarantee provided by the Company.
At 30 December 2012 the balance due under these facilities was 12,035,000 2011: 12,035,000 all of which is in relation to the Employee Benefit Trust.
The loan bears interest at 0.5% 2011: 0.5% above LIBOR.
The loan facility has a term of seven years and matures on 31 January 2014.
The limit for this facility is 13,000,000.
Other loans Other loans include loans entered into to acquire assets which are then leased onto franchisees under finance lease arrangements.
The Group has an asset finance facility of 5,000,000 2011: 5,000,000 with a term of 5 years.
The balance drawn down on this facility and held within other loans as at 30 December 2012 is 2,939,000 2011: 2,689,000.
The loans are repayable in equal instalments over a period of up to five years.
The loans are secured by a limited guarantee and indemnity by the Company and Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited limited to an annual sum of 300,000 and a mortgage charge over the assets financed.
The interest rate on these loans is fixed atan average of 6.16% 2011: 6.8%.
Also included within other loans is a balance of 2,050,000 2011: 2,084,000 in relation to a loan due to the Non-Controlling Interest in Dominos Pizza Germany.
This loan was acquired as part of the acquisition of Dominos Germany.
It is repayable in 2016 and bears interest at a rate of 2.5% above the 3 month Euro LIBOR.
Non-recourse loans Non-recourse loans of 2,604,000 2011: 3,943,000 were acquired with Dominos Leasing Limited.
The loans are repayable over terms of up to six years and bear interest at 0.5% above LIBOR.
The loans are secured over the related lease receivables and are only repayable provided the related lease receivables are settled in full.
Finance leases During the period ended 30 December 2012 the Group acquired a number of finance leases for corporate store equipment and vehicles in Switzerland and Germany.
The average lease term is 2.5 years.
During the period the average effective borrowing rate was 5.8%.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract rate.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors rights over the leased assets.
At 30 December 2012 the leased assets have a carrying value of 196,000.
No further disclosures have been included due to the immateriality of the lease liabilities to the Groups balance sheet.
Obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts Operating lease commitments where the Group is lessee For the stores in the franchisee system, the Group has entered into commercial leases, taking the head lease, and then subletting the properties to the franchisees.
These leases have an average duration of between 10 and 25 years.
Under the terms of the franchise agreement the franchisee is granted an initial period of 10 years to operate a Dominos Pizza delivery store under the Dominos system.
Under the agreement the franchisee also has the option to renew for a further 10 years at the end of the initial period, provided at the time of the renewal the franchisee is not in default of any material provision of the franchise agreement.
In addition the Group has entered into commercial leases on motor vehicles and items of plant, machinery and equipment.
These leases have an average duration of between three and five years.
Only the property lease agreements contain an option for renewal, with such options being exercisable three months before the expiry of the lease term at rentals based on market prices at the time of exercise.
There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Not later than one year 17,132 13,639 After one year but not more than five years 61,578 49,982 After five years 125,001 102,559 203,711 166,180 100 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 27.
Obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts continued Operating lease commitments where the Group is lessor For the stores in the franchisee system, the Group has entered into commercial leases, taking the head lease and in a few instances acquiring the freehold, and then subletting the properties to the franchisees.
These non-cancellable leases have remaining terms of between five and ten years.
All leases include a provision for five-yearly rent reviews according to prevailing market conditions.
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Not later than one year 13,794 13,239 After one year but not more than five years 45,185 42,743 After five years 26,068 18,430 85,047 74,412 28.
Provisions Onerous lease Restructuring Property provisions provisions provisions Total 000 000 000 000 At 25 December 2011 938 99 1,037 Arising during the period 886 1,347 2,233 Utilised during the period 264 239 503 Released during the period 361 99 460 Impact of discounting 11 4 15 Foreign exchange on translation 11 11 At 30 December 2012 1,210 1,123 2,333 At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Current 654 66 Non-current 1,679 971 2,333 1,037 Onerous lease provision The onerous lease provision relates to the outstanding rent obligation for three Dominos stores which were closed during the prior period and other onerous leases identified.
During the period to 30 December 2012 one of these leases was surrendered leading to the release of the unutilised provision.
Additional provisions have been recognised for three Irish leases, two of which are sub-let to commercial tenants: changes in circumstances brought about by the current economic environment have resulted in these sub-leases becoming onerous.
The provision will be utilised over the remaining lease term on the properties identified which range between three and 25 years.
Restructuring provisions The restructuring provision has arisen on acquisition of Dominos Switzerland and relates to outstanding rent obligations for eight stores which were are being closed and relocated as well as other commitments arising from the restructuring plan such as redundancy and relocation costs.
The provision will be utilised within five years.
Property provisions The property provision at 25 December 2011 related to outstanding rent reviews, rates, service charges and dilapidation costs for stores sold as part of the sale of subsidiary undertakings during prior years.
Following the completion of the outstanding rent and rates reviews withno further costs incurred the remaining provision has been released.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 101 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 29.
Financial risk management objectives and policies The Groups financial risk management objectives consist of identifying and monitoring those risks, which have an adverse impact on the value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities or on reported profitability and on the cash flows of the Group.
The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise bank loans, bank revolving facilities, other loans and finance leases.
The Group has various financial assets such as trade receivables and cash and short-term deposits, which arise directly from its operations.
The Group hasnot entered into any derivative transactions such as interest rate swaps or financial foreign currency contracts.
It is, and has been throughout 2012 and 2011, the Groups policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken.
The Groups main treasury risks relate to the availability of funds to meet its future requirements and fluctuations in interest rates.
The treasury policy of the Group is determined and monitored by the Board.
The Group monitors its cash resources through short, medium and long-term cash forecasting, against available facilities.
Surplus cash is pooled into an interest bearing account with the Groups bankers.
The Group monitors its overall level of financial gearing monthly, with short and medium-term forecasts showing levels of gearing within targets.
It is the Groups policy not to have high financial leverage, comparing adjusted net debt to earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
The Group includes within adjusted net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, bank revolving facilities, less cash and cash equivalents and excludes, for this calculation, the Dominos Leasing Limited non-recourse loans and the Dominos Germany non-controlling interest loan.
The Dominos Germany non-controlling interest loan is excluded from the Groups net debt calculation as it does not form part of the long term funding strategy of the Group.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are foreign currency risk, credit risk, price risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.
Foreign currency risk The Group has invested in operations in the Republic of Ireland, Germany and Switzerland and also buys and sells goods and services in currencies other than Sterling.
As a result, the value of the Groups non-Sterling revenues, purchases, financial assets and liabilities and cash flows can be affected by movements in exchange rates, the Euro in particular.
The Group seeks to mitigate the effect of its currency exposures by agreeing fixed Euro rates with franchisees and suppliers wherever possible.
The Board does not consider there to be any significant unmitigated foreign currency risk in relation to the Groups profit before tax.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the Sterling against Euro exchange rates with all other variables held constant, of the Groups equity due to changes in the carrying value of Euro denominated assets in subsidiaries with a Sterling functional currency and Sterling denominated assets in subsidiaries with a Euro functional currency : Increase decrease in Effect Sterling vs on profit Euro rate before tax % 000 2012 25 16 -25 27 2011 25 504 -25 840 Credit risk Customers who trade on credit terms and obtain finance leasing and loans from the Group are predominantly franchisees and it is considered that the franchisee selection process is sufficiently robust to ensure an appropriate credit verification procedure.
Non-recourse loans are only repayable provided the related lease receivables are settled in full.
This limits the Groups exposure to the non-repayment of other lease receivables.
In addition, trade receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
Since the Group trades only with franchisees that have been subject to the franchisee selection process and provide guarantees as required under the franchisee agreements, there is no requirement for collateral.
It is Group policy that cash deposits are only made with banks that have been approved by the Board and have a high credit rating in accordance with the Groups treasury policy to ensure that the Group is not exposed to unnecessary risk.
102 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 29.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Liquidity risk The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing cash generation by its operations with cash collection targets set throughout the Group.
All major investment decisions are considered by the Board as part of the project appraisal and approval process.
In this way the Group aims to maintain a good credit rating to facilitate fund raising.
Financial liabilities due within 3 months of the period end will be settledby the Group using cash and receipts from trade receivables outstanding at the period end.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 30 December 2012 based on contractual undiscountedpayments.
Less than On demand 3 months 3 to 12 months 1 to 5 years 5 years Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Period ended 30 December 2012 Floating rate borrowings Bank loan EBT 38 115 12,035 12,188 Bank revolving facility 236 709 33,544 34,489 Non-recourse loans 87 2,635 - 2,722 Other loans 76 227 2,947 3,250 Fixed rate borrowings Other loans 287 862 1,997 3,146 Finance leases 25 76 127 228 Non-interest bearing Trade and other payables 37,953 37,953 Deferred consideration 450 987 8,561 9,998 39,152 5,611 59,211 103,974 Less than On demand 3 months 3 to 12 months 1 to 5 years 5 years Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Period ended 25 December 2011 Floating rate borrowings Bank loan EBT 32 95 12,161 12,288 Bank revolving facility 133 25,398 25,531 Non-recourse loans 262 726 3,346 4,334 Other loans 79 237 2,308 936 3,560 Fixed rate borrowings Other loans 286 858 1,788 2,932 Non-interest bearing Trade and other payables 27,449 27,449 Deferred consideration 616 1,516 8,886 11,018 28,857 28,830 28,489 936 87,112 Interest rate risk The Board has a policy of ensuring a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings based on the best available rates.
Whilst fixed rate interest bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group to benefit from a reduction in borrowing costs when market rates are declining.
Conversely, whilst floating rate borrowings are not exposed to changes in fair value, the Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk as costs are impacted by changes in market rates.
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
If interest rates had been 0.5 per cent higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit for the 53 week period ended 30 December 2012 would decrease increase by 111,000 2011: 73,000.
This is mainly attributable to the Groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings.
There would be no impact on other comprehensive income.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 103 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 29.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Capital management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it remains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the periods ended 30 December 2012 and 25 December 2011.
The Group monitors the ratio of adjusted net debt to earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
At At 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Bank loan EBT 12,035 12,035 Other loans 2,939 2,689 Finance leases 228 Bank revolving facilities 29,737 25,000 Less: cash and cash equivalents 21,975 24,427 Adjusted net debt 22,964 15,297 Non-recourse loans 2,604 3,943 Dominos Germany non-controlling interest loan 2,050 2,084 Net debt 27,618 21,324 EBITDA 47,894 42,646 Adjusted gearing ratio 0.5 0.4 For further commentary on cash flow, net debt and gearing see the Chief Financial Officers review.
104 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 30.
Financial instruments Fair values Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements: Fair Fair Carrying value Carrying value value value 2012 2011 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 21,975 24,427 21,975 24,427 Net investment in finance leases 5,636 7,277 5,324 7,027 Financial liabilities Bank revolving facilities 29,737 25,000 29,737 25,000 Bank loan EBT 12,035 12,035 12,035 12,035 Fixed rate borrowings 2,939 2,689 2,981 2,824 Finance lease liabilities 228 228 Floating rate borrowings 4,654 6,027 4,654 6,027 Contingent consideration 1,113 1,113 The fair value of the net investment in finance leases has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at the market interest rate.
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at a market rate of interest.
Trade and other receivables and trade and other payables are excluded from the above analysis as the fair values approximate to the carrying amounts due to their short term nature.
Cash, bank revolving facilities and bank loans are all held with banks that have been approved by the Board and have a high credit rating and as a result they are recorded at carrying value.
Interest payable on the bank loan EBT and bank revolving facilities is at floating rate and hence no fair value adjustment is required.
The fair value of the contingent consideration has been estimated by applying a probability weighted average for a number of scenarios based on performance against budget as explained in note 19.
This equates to a Level 2 classification under the IFRS 7 requirement to classify financial instruments at fair value by reference to the following three-level hierarchy based on the source of inputs used to derive the fairvalue.
Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly orindirectly.
Level 3 Techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable marketdata.
During the period the Company bought back a total of 750,000 2011: 500,000 ordinary shares of 1.5625p each for a total value of 3,307,000 including costs of 47,000 2011: 2,219,000, including costs of 19,000.
The average price for which these shares were purchased was 434.67p 2011: 439.78p per share.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 105 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 31.
Share capital and reserves continued Nature and purpose of reserves Share capital Share capital comprises the nominal value of the Companys ordinary shares of 1.5625p each.
Share premium The share premium reserve is the premium paid on the Companys 1.5625p ordinary shares.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve includes the nominal value of shares bought back by the Company.
Capital reserve own shares This reserve relates to shares held by an independently managed EBT.
The shares held by the EBT were purchased in order to satisfy potential awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and other incentive schemes.
Currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of the Groups foreign subsidiaries.
Other reserve The other reserve relates to the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of Dominos Germany, being 880,000 ordinary shares th on the opening of the 35 Dominos store in Germany.
Share-based payments The expense recognised for share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the 53 weeks ended 30 December 2012 is 2,357,000 2011: 1,499,000.
This all arises on equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
Long Term Senior Executive Incentive Plan Reversionary interests over assets held in the Dominos Pizza Group plc employee benefit trust are approved and granted, at the discretion of the trustees, to senior executives.
The interests are capable of vesting within a five year period should certain performance targets be achieved by the Group and all awards will be equity-settled.
During the period further reversionary interests were granted, represented by 1,282,296 2011: 2,507,549 shares.
At 30 December 2012 reversionary interests represented by 5,367,194 2011: 6,259,160 shares in Dominos Pizza Group plc have been granted.
The weighted average fair value of each reversionary interest granted during the year was 68.8p 2011: 70.3p.
106 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 32.
Share-based payments continued Long Term Senior Executive Incentive Plan continued The following tables lists the performance criteria attached to the reversionary interests for the periods ended 30 December 2012 and 25December 2011: No.
Adjusted profit before tax means profit before tax and before operating and non-operating exceptional items.
Employee Share-option On 24 November 1999 participants in the Dominos Pizza Group Limited Unapproved Share Option Scheme which had been in place since 31 March 1999 had the option of exchanging options over shares in Dominos Pizza Group Limited in return for equivalent options over ordinary shares in the Company under Dominos Pizza Share Option Unapproved Scheme.
On 23 March 2004, the Company established the Dominos Pizza Group plc Enterprise Management Incentive Scheme EMI Scheme.
All employees are eligible for grants of options under these schemes, which are approved by the Board.
Prior to 2011, the options vest overa 3 year period and are exercisable subject to the condition that the growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share, during each of the3years following the date of grant, exceeds growth in the Retail Price Index by at least 3%.
For 2011 and 2012 the options vest over a3year period and are exercisable subject to the condition that real growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share, during each of the 3years following the date of the grant, exceeds at least 3%.
The options lapse after 10 years or in certain other circumstances connected with leaving the Company.
There are no cash settlement alternatives and all awards are equity settled.
In April 2012 a total of 1,317,077 2011: 1,160,323 share options were granted under the Unapproved Share Option Scheme and 352,931 2011: 334,050 share options were granted under the Approved Share Option Scheme.
The options vest after a 3 year period and are exercisable subject to the condition that the growth in adjusted basic earnings per share in any financial year between grant and vesting exceeds the real growth by at least 3%.
The contractual life of each option granted is 10 years.
The weighted average fair value of each option granted in 2012 was 91.8p 2011: 86.1p.
Sharesave scheme During 2009 the Group introduced a Sharesave scheme giving employees the option to acquire shares in the Company.
Employees have the option to save an amount per month up to a maximum of 250 and at the end of three years they have the option to purchase shares in the company or to take their savings in cash.
The contractual life of the scheme is three years.
The weighted average fair value of each option granted in 2012 was 68.8p 2011: 69.8p.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 107 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 32 Share-based payments continued Sharesave scheme continued As at 30 December 2012, the following share options were outstanding: Outstanding at Granted Exercised Forfeited Outstanding at 25 December during during during 30 December 2011 the period the period the period 2012 Date of grant Exercise price No.
Share-based payments continued Sharesave scheme continued As at 25 December 2011, the following share options were outstanding: Outstanding at Granted Exercised Forfeited Outstanding at 26 December during during during 25 December 2010 the period the period the period 2011 Date of grant Exercise price No.
The weighted average share price for options exercised during 2012 was 490.9p 2011: 455.1p.
The following share options were exercisable at the period end: At At 25 December 25 December 2012 2011 No.
Dominos Pizza unapproved Scheme 15 December 2005 119,279 212,426 30 March 2007 131,773 210,878 3 April 2008 159,714 297,466 29 May 2009 58,157 468,923 720,770 Dominos Pizza approved Scheme 29 May 2009 270,171 EMI Scheme 23 March 2004 40,837 76,037 779,931 796,807 Weighted average exercise price 184.5p 168.3p The fair value of both options and reversionary interests granted is estimated at the date of granting using a Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which they were granted.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 109 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 32.
Share-based payments continued Sharesave scheme continued The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the period ended 30 December 2012: Expected Historical Initial value Dividend yield volatility volatility Risk-free rate Expected term exercise price Share price % % % % years p p LTIP 2 April 2012 3.0 28.8 28.8 1.1 3 431.6 431.6 Employee share options 2 April 2012 3.0 28.8 28.8 1.1 4 431.6 431.6 Employee share options 2 April 2012 3.0 32.1 32.1 1.1 5 398.0 431.6 The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the period ended 26 December 2011: Expected Historical Initial value Dividend yield volatility volatility Risk-free rate Expected term exercise price Share price % % % % years p p LTIP 9 August 2011 3.0 29.3 29.3 0.9 3 437.1 437.1 Employee share options 26 July 2011 3.0 29.3 29.3 1.2 3 482.4 482.4 Employee share options 9 August 2011 3.0 29.3 29.3 0.9 3 386.8 437.1 The expected life is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.
Noother features of the options or reversionary interests were incorporated into the measurement of fair value, and non-market conditions have not been included in calculating fair value.
Additional cash flow information Analysis of Group net debt At At Cash Exchange Non-cash 30 December 25 December flow differences movements 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 24,427 2,308 144 21,975 Bank revolving facility 25,000 4,702 35 29,737 Bank loans 12,035 12,035 Finance leases 4 224 228 Other loans 2,689 250 2,939 Adjusted net debt 15,297 7,260 148 259 22,964 Non-recourse loans 3,943 1,339 2,604 Other loans 2,084 34 2,050 Net debt 21,324 5,921 114 259 27,618 At At Cash Exchange Non-cash 26 December 26 December flow differences movements 2010 2010 000 000 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 31,128 6,526 175 24,427 Bank revolving facility 25,000 25,000 Bank loans 12,035 12,035 Other loans 2,722 43 2,689 Adjusted net debt 8,639 6,483 175 15,297 Non-recourse loans 4,798 855 3,943 Other loans 138 2,222 2,084 Net debt 13,437 5,628 37 2,222 21,324 110 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 34.
Capital commitments At 30 December 2012, amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounted to 92,000 2011: 184,000 for the Group.
Contingent liabilities Pursuant to the relevant regulation of the European Communities Companies: Group Accounts Regulations, 1992 the Company has guaranteed the liabilities of the Irish subsidiary, DP Pizza Limited and as a result the Irish company has been exempted from the filing provisions section 7, Companies Amendment Act 1986 of the Republic of Ireland.
Related party transactions The financial statements include the financial statements of Dominos Pizza Group PLC and the subsidiary undertakings listed below.
Country of Proportion of voting Name of company incorporation rights and shares held Nature of business Directly held subsidiary undertakings DPG Holdings Limited England 100% ordinary Investment DP Realty Limited England 100% ordinary Property management DP Group Developments Limited England 100% ordinary Property development DP Capital Limited England 100% ordinary Leasing of store equipment American Pizza Company Limited England 100% ordinary Dormant DP Milton Keynes Limited England 100% ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores Dominos Pizza Isle of Man Limited Isle of Man 100% ordinary Property management DP Cyco Limited Cyprus 75 % ordinary Operation and management of franchise business in Germany DP Cyco Switzerland Limited Cyprus 100% ordinary Operation and management of franchise business in Switzerland Indirectly held subsidiary undertakings Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited England 100% ordinary Operation and management of franchise business and commissaries DP Newcastle Limited England 100% ordinary Dormant Livebait Limited England 100% ordinary Dormant DP Pizza Limited Republic of 100% ordinary Operation of commissary Ireland Dominos Leasing Limited England 100% ordinary Leasing Dominos Pizza Germany Limited England 75% ordinary Operation of commissary and pizza delivery stores in Germany Dominos Pizza Germany GmbH Germany 75% ordinary Investment Dominos Pizza GmbH Switzerland 100% ordinary Operation of commissary and pizza delivery stores in Switzerland Associate undertakings Full House Restaurants Limited England 41% ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores Dominoid Limited England 50% ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores Mungo Park Limited England 50% ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores Joint venture undertakings Deutsche Dominoid GmbH Germany 50% ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores Dominos Pizza West Country Limited England 50% ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores DP Shayban Limited England 50% ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores HJS Pizza Deutschland GmbH Germany 40% ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores DP Milton Keynes sold 21 December 2012 see note 20 www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 111 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 36.
Related party transactions continued During the period the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties.
For details of loan balancesdue from associates please refer to note 23.
Transactions entered into, and trading balances outstanding at 30 December 2011:25 December with related parties, are as follows: Amounts Sales to owed by related related party party 000 000 Related party Associates and joint ventures 2012 13,118 3,399 2011 3,675 443 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Sales and purchases between related parties are made at normal market prices.
Outstanding balances with entities are unsecured, interest free and cash settlement is expected within seven days of invoice.
The Group has not provided for or benefited from any guarantees for any related party receivables or payables.
During the financial period ended 30 December 2012, the Group has not made any provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties 2011: same.
Compensation of key management personnel including directors 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 30 December 25 December 2012 2011 000 000 Short-term employee benefits 4,601 4,998 Post-employment benefits 200 230 Share-based payment 1,797 1,126 6,598 6,354 The table above includes the remuneration costs of the directors of the Company and the directors of Dominos Pizza UK and Ireland Limited, Dominos Pizza Germany Limited and Dominos Pizza GmbH.
Other related parties During the period, the Group paid 62,333 2011: 62,500 to Saracens rugby club, in the normal course of business as part of its on-going marketing strategy and nil 2011: 9,549 to Prestbury Two LLP in respect of Group travel arrangements.
Nigel Wray has an interest in each of these entities, being Non-Executive Chairman of Saracens Limited and a partner in Prestbury Two LLP.
The transaction was paid at arms length values under normal business terms.
112 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
