Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Directors responsibility statement records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them the Report on Directors remuneration and the financial statements to ensure that the Annual Report and financial statements comply Group and Company in accordance with applicable UK laws and with the Companies Act 2006 and with regard to the Group financial regulations.
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the for the system of internal control for safeguarding the assets of the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps to with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
by the European Union EU and applicable UK law.
Further, they have elected to prepare the Company financial statements in A copy of the financial statements of the Company is posted on accordance with UK accounting standards UK GAAP and the Companys website.
The Directors are responsible for the applicable UKlaw.
maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information Under company law the directors must not approve the financial included on the website.
Information published on the Companys statements unless they are satisfied that they are a true and fair view website is accessible in many countries with different legal of the Group and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation thatperiod.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In preparing the Group financial statements, the Directors are DTR 4.1 statement requiredto: Each of the Directors, the names and functions of whom are set Select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: out on pages 26 and 27 confirms that to the best of his knowledge, Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the and then apply them consistently: financial statements in accordance with applicable accounting standards and that the financial statements give a true and fair view Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner of the assets, liabilities and financial position and profit of the Group which presents relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable and the Company and of the Groups income statement for that information: period.
In addition, each of the Directors confirms that the Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific management report represented by the Directors report includes requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enables users to understand a fair review of the development and performance of the business the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions and the position of the Company and Group, together with a on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
State that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Signed on behalf of the Board financial statements.
In preparing the Company financial statements, the Directors are Lance Batchelor Lee Ginsberg requiredto: Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 22 February 2013 22 February 2013 Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
66 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
