Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 129 Shareholder information Key dates for 2013 At the date of publication of this document, the following are the proposed key dates in the 2013 financial calendar: Annual General Meeting 24 April Ordinary shares marked ex-dividend 24 April Record Date for entitlement to the final dividend 26 April Payment of final dividend 17 May Interim Management Statement mid May Financial half year end 30 June Announcement of half year results 30 July Interim Management Statement mid November Financial year end 31 December Other significant dates, or amendments to the proposed dates above, will be posted on the Companys website as and when they become available.
Results announcements Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange and are available on its news service.
Shortly afterwards, they are available under Regulatory news within the Investor section on the Companys website.
Share price Shareholders can access the current share price of Drax Group plc ordinary shares on our website at www.
During Stock Exchange trading hours the price shown on the website is subject to a delay of approximately 15 minutes and outside trading hours it is the last available price.
The table below provides an indication of fluctuations in the Drax Group plc share price during the course of 2012, and the graph provides an indication of the trend of the share price throughout the year.
Closing price on Low during the year High during the year Closing price on 31 December 2011 25 July 2012 14 May 2012 31 December 2012 545.0 pence 442.0 pence 574.5 pence 544.5 pence 1 Share price graph Share price p 1 January to 31 December 2012 600 500 400 Jan 12 Feb 12 Mar 12 Apr 12 May 12 Jun 12 Jul 12 Aug 12 Sep 12 Oct 12 Nov 12 Dec 12 Notes: 1 The share prices given are the middle market closing prices as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc Annual report and 130 accounts 2012 Shareholder information Market capitalisation The market capitalisation, based on the number of shares in issue and the closing middle market price at 31 December 2012, was approximately 2.2 billion.
Financial reports Copies of all financial reports we publish are available from the date of publication and can be downloaded from our website.
Printed copies of reports can be requested by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered office, by clicking on Contact Us on our website, or direct by e-mail to enquiries@draxpower.
Drax shareholder queries Draxs share register is maintained by Equiniti Limited Equiniti, who is primarily responsible for updating the share register and for dividend payments.
Shareholders should contact Equiniti directly if they have a query relating to their Drax shareholding.
In particular queries regarding: Transfer of shares: Change of name or address: Lost share certificates: Lost or out-of-date dividend cheques: Payment of dividends direct to a bank or building society account: Death of a registered shareholder.
Equiniti can be contacted as follows: Call Equiniti on 0871 384 2030 from within the UK calls to this number cost 8 pence per minute plus network charges.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding Bank Holidays : or 44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK.
Write to Equiniti at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
When contacting Equiniti by telephone or in writing it is advisable to have your shareholder reference to hand and quote Drax Group plc, as well as the name and address in which the shares are held.
Online communications Registering for online communications allows you to have more control over the administration of your shareholding.
The registration process is easy via Equinitis secure website www.
Once registered with Shareview you are able to: elect how Drax communicates with you: amend some of your personal details: amend the way you receive dividends: and buy or sell shares online.
Registering for electronic communications does not mean that you can no longer receive paper copies of documents.
We are able to offer a range of services and tailor the communications to meet your needs.
A range of frequently asked shareholder questions can also be found on the Drax website at www.
uk investor shareholder info shareholderfaq.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 131 Beneficial owners and information rights If your shares are registered in the name of a third party i. e. an ISA provider or other nominee company you may, if you wish, receive information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006.
In order for this to happen, you must contact the third party registered holder, who will then nominate you.
All communications by beneficial owners of shares where the shares are held by third party registered holders must be directed to that registered holder and not to Drax or Equiniti.
ShareGift ShareGift registered charity No.
1052686 is an independent charity which provides a free service for shareholders wishing to dispose charitably of small parcels of shares, which would most likely cost more to sell than they are worth.
There are no capital gains tax implications i. e. no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is possible to obtain income tax relief.
Further information can be obtained directly from the charity at www.
Share frauds Boiler room scams In recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence offering to purchase their shares at apparently inflated prices.
It is often the case that the caller, or message in the correspondence claims that they represent a majority shareholder who is looking to take over the Company.
Some Drax Group plc shareholders have received such communications in the latter part of 2012.
At the time of this report, the Company was not the subject of a take-over attempt, hostile or otherwise, and approaches such as those experienced by our shareholders are usually made by unauthorised companies and individuals.
The approaches can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders should be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a premium or offers of free reports into the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice or any offers to purchase your shares: make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation: check that they are properly authorised by the Financial Services Authority FSA before getting involved.
uk register: the FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and any approach from such organisations should be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action can be considered.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme: do not provide any personal details to callers e. g. bank details, full address: do not send your share certificates to anyone: and report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 cost of calls may vary or visiting www.
The FSA advises that, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
The FSA also recommend ten steps to help protect shareholders and consumers from scams such as this.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website details above.
Shareholders by percentage ownership Shareholders by number as at 31 December 2012 as at 31 December 2012 Private Private shareholders: shareholders: 0.76% 1,577 Institutional shareholders: Institutional 99.24% shareholders: 1,346 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 133 Company information, professional advisers and service providers Drax Group plc Registered office and trading address Drax Power Station Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Telephone 44 0 1757 618381 Fax 44 0 1757 612192 www.
uk Registration details Registered in England and Wales Company Number: 5562053 Company Secretary Philip Hudson Enquiry e-mail address enquiries@draxpower.
com Professional advisers and service providers Auditor Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square, London EC4A 3BZ Bankers Barclays Bank PLC 1 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HP Brokers Deutsche Bank AG Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 2DB UBS Investment Bank 1 Finsbury Avenue, London EC2M 2PP Financial PR Brunswick Group LLP 16 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED Registrars Equiniti Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Remuneration advisers  LLP 1 Embankment Place, London WC2N 6RH Solicitors Norton Rose LLP 3 More London Riverside, London SE1 2AQ Slaughter and May LLP One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
