Drax Group plc Annual report and 134 accounts 2012 Glossary Ancillary services Availability Average achieved price Services provided to National Grid used Average percentage of time the units were Power revenues divided by volume of net for balancing supply and demand or available for generation.
maintaining secure electricity supplies within acceptable limits.
They are described in Connection Condition 8 of the Grid Code.
Average capture price Balancing Mechanism Baseload Revenue derived from bilateral contracts The sub-set of the market through which Running 24 hours per day, seven days per divided by volume of net merchant sales.
the System Operator can call upon week remaining permanently synchronised additional generation consumption or to the system.
reduce generation consumption, through market participants bids and offers, in order to balance the system minute by minute.
Bilateral contracts Company Dark green spread Contracts with counterparties and power Drax Group plc.
The difference between the price available exchange trades.
in the market for sales of electricity and the marginal cost of production being the cost of coal and other fuels including CO2 emissions allowances.
EBITDA EU ETS Forced outage Profit before interest, tax, depreciation The EU Emissions Trading Scheme is a Any reduction in plant availability excluding and amortisation, gains losses on mechanism introduced across the EU to planned outages.
disposal of property, plant and equipment reduce emissions of CO2: the scheme is and unrealised gains losses on derivative capable of being extended to cover all contracts.
Feed-in Tariff with Contracts Forced outage rate Frequency response service for Difference FiT CfD A long-term contract set at a fixed level The capacity which is not available due to Services purchased by National Grid to where variable payments are made to forced outages or restrictions expressed as maintain system frequency.
ensure the generator receives an agreed a percentage of the maximum theoretical tariff assuming they sell their electricity capacity, less planned outage capacity.
The Feed-in Tariff payment would be made in addition to the generators revenues from selling electricity in the market.
The FiT CfD can be a two-way mechanism that has Grid charges Group the potential to see generators return Includes transmission network use of Drax Group plc and its subsidiaries.
money to consumers if electricity prices system charges TNUoS, balancing are higher than the agreed tariff.
services use of system charges BSUoS and distribution use of system charges DUoS.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 135 IFRSs LECs Load factor International Financial Reporting Levy Exemption Certificates.
Evidence of Net sent out generation as a percentage Standards.
Climate Change Levy exempt electricity of maximum sales.
supplies generated from qualifying renewable sources.
Lost time injury rate Net Balancing Mechanism Net cash debt The frequency rate is calculated on the Net volumes attributable to accepted bids Comprises cash and cash equivalents, following basis: lost time injuries hours and offers in the Balancing Mechanism.
short-term investments less overdrafts and worked times 100,000.
Lost time injuries borrowings net of deferred finance costs.
are defined as occurrences where the injured party is absent from work for more than 24 hours.
Net merchant sales Net sales Occupational health and safety assessment series OHSAS Net volumes attributable to bilateral The aggregate of net merchant sales and The OHSAS specification gives contracts and power exchange trades.
requirements for an occupational health and safety management system to enable an organisation to control occupational health and safety risks and improve its performance.
Planned outage Planned outage rate Pond fines A period during which scheduled The capacity not available due to planned Coal dust and waste coal from the cleaning maintenance is executed according to the outages expressed as a percentage of the and screening process which can be used plan set at the outset of the year.
Power exchange trades Power revenues ROCs Power sales or purchases transacted on The aggregate of bilateral contracts and Renewables Obligation Certificates.
the APX UK power trading platform.
Summer Technical availability Total recordable injury rate TRIR The calendar months April to September.
Total availability after planned and The frequency rate is calculated on the forced outages.
following basis: lost time injuries worst than first aid hours worked x 100,000.
UK NAP Underlying earnings per share Winter UK National Allocation Plan.
Calculated as profit attributable to equity The calendar months October to March.
holders, adjusted to exclude the after tax impact of unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts, and exceptional items, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc Annual report and 136 accounts 2012 Notes Design and production: Radley Yeldar | www.
com Illustration: Graphic Ad Board photography: Henry Thomas Print: Park Communications Ltd Park is an EMAS certied CarbonNeutral Company and its Environmental Management System is certied to ISO14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Revive 100 White Silk, a fully certied FSC paper containing 100% fide-inked post consumer waste.
The pulp used to produce this product is bleached using a Totally Chlorine Free TCF process.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Drax Group plc Drax Power Station Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Telephone: 44 0 1757 618381 Fax: 44 0 1757 612192 www.
