Governance Directors Report Ordinary shares Ordinary shares The Directors submit their Annual Report and held as at held as at the audited financial statements for the financial 30 April 2012 % 22 June 2012 % year ended 30 April 2012.
The Directors Standard Life Investments Ltd 112,659,283 12.2% 125,823,436 13.6% statement as to disclosure of information to Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 99,907,471 10.8% 94,424,467 10.2% auditors, as required by Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, is on page 58.
Schroder Investment Management Ltd 45,445,598 4.9% 45,445,598 4.9% Dimensional Fund Advisers 38,453,324 4.1% 38,453,324 4.1% Principal activities Legal & General Group Plc 15,673,009 1.6% 36,711,917 3.9% The Company acts as the holding company of a group, which, during 2011 12, was Notiable interests in the Companys issued ordinary share capital in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency engaged in the international supply of recycled Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
developments to differ from those anticipated.
Pursuant to the A full review of the activities during the financial The forward-looking statements reect Companys employee share option schemes, year ended 30 April 2012 is set out on pages 643,178 ordinary shares of 10 pence each knowledge and information available at the 1 to 33.
The principal risks and uncertainties date of preparation of this Annual Report and were issued during the year.
No shares pursuant facing the Group are discussed on pages 29 the Company undertakes no obligation to to the Companys employee share option to 33.
A discussion of future developments and update these forward-looking statements.
schemes were issued between 30 April 2012 key performance indicators that management Nothing in this Annual Report should be and 27 June 2012 inclusive.
The Company use is set out in the Business Review on page construed as a profit forecast.
has not utilised its authority to make market 6.
Financial information, including financial purchases of shares granted to it at the 2011 instruments, is shown on pages 17 to 21.
Results for the year Annual General Meeting but will be seeking The principal subsidiary undertakings are The financial results are shown on pages to renew such authority at this years Meeting.
Acquisitions and divestments Business review Dividends SCA Packaging Kuban acquisition and disposal The information that fulls the requirements An interim dividend of 2.8 pence net per The Group acquired 100% of the equity of the Business Review can be found in the ordinary share was paid on 23 January 2012 of SCA Packaging Kuban in July 2011 Business Review on pages 1 to 33, which and the Directors recommend a final dividend for 5.0 million cash consideration and are incorporated in this Report by reference.
of 4.0 pence net per ordinary share which, 1.5 million deferred consideration payable together with the restated interim dividend of Corporate Governance statement in December 2011, exclusively with a view 1.9 pence, increases the total dividend for the The information that fulls the requirements of the to resale.
The business was subsequently sold year, restated for the rights issue, at 5.9 pence Corporate Governance statement can be found in December 2011 to the Groups associate, 2010 11: 4.5 pence.
Subject to approval in the Corporate Governance section on pages Rubezhansk, for 6.5 million with nil profit of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting 36 to 42 and is incorporated into this report by or loss on disposal.
to be held on 4 September 2012, the final reference with the exception of the information SCA Packaging acquisition dividend will be paid on 1 November 2012 referred to in the Financial Services Authority On 17 January 2012 the Directors to shareholders on the register at the close of Disclosure and Transparency Rules 7.2.
6, announced arrangements regarding the business on 5 October 2012.
The dividends which is shown in the table above.
proposed acquisition of the packaging per ordinary share stated above are those Cautionary statement division of Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget actually paid or to be paid.
Historic dividends The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide SCA publ excluding the kraftliner assets per share have been restated in the five year information to the members of the Company, SCA Packaging for 1.7 billion on a cash, summary on page 107. as a body, and no-one else.
The Company, its debt and, to the extent legally possible and Share capital Directors, employees, agents and advisers do commercially practicable, pension free basis Details of the issued share capital and the not accept or assume responsibility to any other the Acquisition.
Net consideration will be rights and restrictions attached to the shares, person to whom this document is shown or approximately 1.6 billion after taking into together with details of movements in the into whose hands it may come and any such account a pension price adjustment.
In Companys issued share capital during the responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
addition, there will also be customary year are shown in note 24.
The Annual Report contains certain forwardRights Issue announced on 17 January looking statements with respect to the 2012, 490,751,669 new ordinary shares On 25 May 2012, the European operations, performance and financial of 10 pence each were issued at a price of Commission granted competition clearance condition of the Group.
By their nature, these 0.95 per share, resulting in net proceeds on for the Acquisition.
The clearance requires statements involve uncertainty since future events issue of approximately 450.2 million.
These DS Smith Plc to divest three sites after the and circumstances can cause results and new shares ranked equally in all respects with Acquisition, currently representing approximately DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 55 Directors Report continued 1% of the enlarged Group profit.
Completion on 7 October 2011 and resigned as Directors interests in shares is expected to take place on 30 June 2012. a Director on 4 January 2012.
Gareth Davis The interests of the Directors and their immediate was appointed as Deputy Chairman of the families in the ordinary shares of 10 pence The Group incurred Acquisition related costs Board on 7 October 2011 and was confirmed each of the Company in terms of shares, of 18.4 million on professional advisory fees as Chairman on 4 January 2012.
Other than options and conditional share awards, were and due diligence costs.
These fees have been as previously disclosed in this Report and in as shown in the tables on pages 52 to 54. included in administrative expenses in the respect of existing service agreements, no Groups Consolidated Income Statement.
Due Directors indemnities Director, either during or at the end of the to the nature of these costs, they have been The Company has entered into qualifying financial year, has been materially interested reported as exceptional costs.
third-party indemnity arrangements for the in any significant contract or arrangement benefit of its Directors in a form and scope in relation to the Groups business.
Other acquisition which comply with the requirements of the The Group made additional minor acquisitions The rules regarding the appointment and Companies Act 2006. of subsidiary businesses of 2.3 million, of replacement of Directors are contained in the which the majority relates to the acquisition Group Company Secretary Companys Articles of Association Articles, of an additional 35% shareholding in Rapak Matt Jowett was appointed as Group which may only be amended with shareholder AD, which brings the Groups holding in General Counsel and Company Secretary approval in accordance with relevant Rapak AD at 30 April 2012 to 85%.
of the Company on 1 July 2011 in place legislation.
The powers of the Directors are of Carolyn Cattermole, who stepped down contained in the Companys Articles.
Articles give the Directors powers, subject to On 30 December 2011 the Ofce Products relevant legislation, to authorise the issue and Employee involvement and communications Wholesaling division was sold to Unipapel buy-back of the Companys shares by the The Group is committed to frequent and SA.
Ofce Products Wholesaling principally Company, subject to authority being given effective employee communications to promote comprises Spicers Limited, Spicers Ireland to the Directors by shareholders in general the understanding and involvement of all its Limited, Spicers France SAS, Spicers Belgium meeting.
The Company annually seeks the NV and Spicers Nederland BV.
employees in the Groups business objectives authority of shareholders to authorise the and performance.
Communications and Discontinued operations relates to the disposal exercise by Directors of these powers.
personnel policies have been developed of the Ofce Products Wholesaling division.
to reect the philosophy of operating Re-election of Directors The gain on sale of the discontinued operation management.
Information is regularly The Articles require that all Directors who have was 67.1 million before tax 58.0 million communicated by briengs and newsletters.
either been appointed by the Board since the after tax.
The Group operates a European Works last Annual General Meeting, or for whom the Council, with representatives drawn from Research and development forthcoming Annual General Meeting is the across the entire workforce in the EU countries One of the key ways in which the Group seeks third Annual General Meeting since they were in which the Group operates.
Meetings are to differentiate itself is the use of sophisticated elected or last re-elected by the Company in held to provide an exchange of information design tools to ensure that the best packaging general meeting, retire from ofce but they are of transnational importance and to consult with designs are offered, in order to optimise eligible to submit themselves for re-election by employees on the strategy and direction of the packaging in our customers supply chain and the shareholders.
However, in accordance with Company.
At each meeting, presentations are bring reductions in carbon footprint.
Research the UK Corporate Governance Code, which made on the Groups business strategy, financial is conducted into design tool development, new recommends that all directors of FTSE 350 results, health and safety and environmental types of corrugated packaging and innovative companies be subject to annual re-election, performance.
The Group also has a number applications of it, such as R-Flute, which is then the Board has resolved that all Directors will of divisional national Consultation Forums which rolled out through the organisation.
The Group retire and stand for re-election at the forthcoming promote information exchange, consultation has a number of patented designs that are Annual General Meeting on 4 September and representation between the Group and offered to customers across the business.
Business decisions concerning Directors Formal performance evaluation has confirmed capital investment, employment and training The biographies of the present Directors are that the individual performance of the Directors take into account the Groups public and local on pages 34 and 35.
All the Directors served offering themselves for re-election has been responsibilities.
The Group supports the throughout the year except as follows: Peter effective and they have demonstrated involvement of its operations in local Johnson resigned as Chairman of the Board commitment to the role.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 56 Governance Equal opportunities to all members of the respective schemes.
The Charitable and political donations DS Smith is an equal opportunities employer.
Trustee Company of the dened benefit scheme The Group contributed 78,000 The Group is rmly committed to both the has an Investment Sub-Committee, established 2010 11: 76,000 to charities.
principle and realisation of equal opportunities in line with the recommended guidelines of the No payments were made to political and its policies are designed to provide such Myners Report.
Peter Murray of AllenbridgeEpic parties.
Donations were made by operating equality irrespective of age, disability, sex, Investment Advisers is appointed as an divisions to support their local communities.
sexual orientation, race, religion or nationality.
independent adviser to the Investment SubThe Group also supported a number of Every possible step is taken to ensure that Committee of the dened benefit scheme.
other charities across a range of causes.
individuals are treated equally and fairly.
Health and safety During the year the DS Smith Charitable The Group applies the same criteria to people The Group recognises its responsibilities Foundation was established to provide with disabilities as it does to other employees.
and continues to promote all aspects of health support to charities in areas aligned with Where appropriate, facilities are adapted and safety in the interests of its employees the activities and values of the business.
and retraining is offered to any employee who and members of the public.
A Health and develops a disability during their employment.
Annual General Meeting Safety Policy Statement has been approved The notice of the Annual General Meeting Pension fund by the Board.
of the Company to be held on 4 September The Group had, in the year under review, four significant agreements 2012, together with explanations of the UK pension arrangements: one dened benefit The Company is required to disclose any Resolutions to be proposed and details of the scheme which closed to future service benets significant agreements that take effect, alter proxy appointment deadline and voting record with effect from 30 April 2011 and all affected or terminate on a change of control of the date, appears at the back of this Annual Report.
members of the dened benefit scheme were Company.
The Company has a number offered membership of the Groups dened Auditor of borrowing and related derivative facilities contribution scheme for future service, one Each Director confirms that: provided by various lenders.
These facilities dened contribution scheme, which was agreements generally include change of control a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant introduced for new employees joining the provisions which, in the event of a change audit information of which the Companys Group on or after 1 May 2005, one Group of ownership of the Company, could result in Auditor is unaware: and personal pension plan which closed and renegotiation or withdrawal of these facilities.
all members were invited to transfer into b he has taken all the steps he ought to have These significant agreements are as set out the Groups dened contribution scheme taken as a Director in order to make himself in note 18. on 1 March 2012 and a statutory aware of any relevant audit information and Stakeholder arrangement.
There are a number of other agreements that to establish that the Companys Auditor is take effect, alter or terminate upon a change aware of that information.
The dened benefit scheme is a trust-based of control of the Company following a takeover arrangement and the investments of the assets Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor bid, such as commercial contracts and joint are managed on a discretionary basis by a of the Company and to authorise the Directors venture agreements.
None is considered to number of Investment Managers, in either to determine the remuneration will be put to the be significant in terms of their potential impact segregated or pooled arrangements.
on the business of the Group as a whole.
The dened contribution scheme is a trust-based By Order of the Board Payment to suppliers arrangement offering members a range of Although the Company does not follow any Matt Jowett, Group General Counsel and investments.
The trustees have selected Friends formal code or standard on payment practice, Company Secretary Life as the preferred provider.
The Group 27 June 2012 the Company agrees terms and conditions personal pension plan was a contract-based in the UK with each supplier, which include arrangement offering members a range of terms of payment.
The Company pays each investments with AVIVA and other external supplier accordingly, subject to all the terms investment fund managers, and the Stakeholder and conditions of the order being satisfied arrangement is provided through Investment by such supplier.
As DS Smith Plc is a holding Solutions Limited.
All such assets are held company, whose principal business is to independently from the Group.
The trustees hold shares in Group companies, it has of the dened benefit scheme and the dened no trade creditors.
contribution scheme send an Annual Report DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 57 Directors Report continued Directors responsibilities statement In preparing the Group financial statements, Responsibility statement International Accounting Standard 1 requires We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements that Directors: t the financial statements, prepared in in accordance with applicable law t properly select and apply accordance with the relevant financial and regulations.
accounting policies: reporting framework, give a true and fair Company law requires the Directors to prepare view of the assets, liabilities, financial position t present information, including accounting financial statements for each financial year.
and profit or loss of the Company and the policies, in a manner that provides Under that law the Directors are required undertakings included in the consolidation relevant, reliable, comparable and to prepare the Group financial statements taken as a whole: and understandable information: in accordance with International Financial t the management report, which is t provide additional disclosures when Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by incorporated into the Directors Report, compliance with the specic requirements the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS includes a fair review of the development in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users Regulation and have chosen to prepare and performance of the business and to understand the impact of particular the parent Company financial statements in the position of the Company and the transactions, other events and conditions accordance with United Kingdom Generally undertakings included in the consolidation on the entitys financial position and Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom taken as a whole, together with a description financial performance: and Accounting Standards and applicable law.
of the principal risks and uncertainties Under company law the Directors must not t make an assessment of the Companys that they face.
approve the accounts unless they are satisfied ability to continue as a going concern.
By Order of the Board that they give a true and fair view of the state The Directors are responsible for keeping of affairs of the Company and of the profit adequate accounting records that are Miles Roberts, Group Chief Executive or loss of the Company for that period.
sufficient to show and explain the Companys 27 June 2012 In preparing the parent company financial transactions and disclose with reasonable statements, the Directors are required to: accuracy at any time the financial position Steve Dryden, Group Finance Director of the Company and enable them to ensure 27 June 2012 t select suitable accounting policies and that the financial statements comply with then apply them consistently: the Companies Act 2006.
They are also t make judgements and accounting estimates responsible for safeguarding the assets of the that are reasonable and prudent: Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of t state whether applicable UK Accounting fraud and other irregularities.
Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and The Directors are responsible for the explained in the financial statements: maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the t prepare the financial statements on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United going concern basis unless it is inappropriate Kingdom governing the preparation and to presume that the Company will continue dissemination of financial statements may in business.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
