Notice of Annual General Meeting 2012 Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of DS Smith Plc will be held at the ofces of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD, on Tuesday 4 September 2012 at 2.00pm to consider and, if thought t, pass the following resolutions, of which resolutions 1 to 12 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 13 to 15 will be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report, the Auditors Report and financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2012.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares.
To approve the Report on Remuneration.
To re-elect Mr G Davis as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr M W Roberts as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr S W Dryden as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr C J Bunker as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr P J-C Mellier as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr J C Nicholls as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Company to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are to be laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditor.
That: a the Directors be authorised to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the Company: i in accordance with article 7 of the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, up to a maximum nominal amount of 30,899,204.50 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any equity securities as dened in article 8 of the Articles allotted under paragraph ii below in excess of 30,899,204.50 : and ii comprising equity securities as dened in article 8 of the Articles, up to a maximum nominal amount of 61,798,409.10 such amount to be reduced by any shares allotted or rights granted under paragraph i above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue as dened in article 8 of the Articles.
b this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, at the close of business on 1 November 2013: and c all previous unutilised authorities under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 shall cease to have effect save to the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to section 551 7 of the Companies Act 2006 by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be granted on or after that date.
That: a in accordance with article 8 of the Articles, the Directors be given power, under sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006, to allot equity securities for cash: b the power under paragraph a above other than in connection with a rights issue, as dened in article 8 of the Articles shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities having a nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate 4,634,880.60: c this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on 1 November 2013: and d all previous unutilised authorities under sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 shall cease to have effect.
That in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company is generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 of the Companies Act 2006 of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company in such manner and on such terms as the Directors may from time to time determine provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 92,697,610: b the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is 10 pence exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : c the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount equal to the higher of 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the date of any such purchase and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buyback and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : d the authority hereby conferred shall, unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of the resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on 1 November 2013, save that the Company shall be entitled under such authority to make at any time before the expiry thereof any contract or contracts to purchase its ordinary shares which will or might be concluded wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract: and www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 108 Notice of Meeting e all existing authorities for the Company to make market purchases of ordinary shares are revoked, except in relation to the purchase of shares under a contract or contracts concluded before the date of this resolution and which has or have not yet been executed.
That, in accordance with the Companys Articles, a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By Order of the Board Matt Jowett, Company Secretary Beech House, Whitebrook Park, 68 Lower Cookham Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire SL6 8XY 23 July 2012 NOTES i Only those Members registered in the Register of Members of the Company as at 6pm on 2 September 2012 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their names at that time.
ii Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and speak and vote on their behalf at the Meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
iii A proxy may be appointed by any of the following methods: t completing and returning the enclosed Form of Proxy: or t by logging onto the Registrars website www.
co. uk using the Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number printed on the Form of Proxy enclosed.
Shareholders who have already registered with the Registrars online portfolio service Shareview can submit a proxy by logging into their prole at www.
co. uk and clicking on the link to vote under Your DS Smith Plc holding details: or t members of CREST should use the CREST electronic appointment service see vii below.
If two or more valid but differing appointments of a proxy are received in respect of the same share for use at the same meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the others as regards that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was received last, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
To be effective, Forms of Proxy must reach the Registrars at the address shown on the Form and the Registrars must receive any electronic appointment of proxy not later than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
Completion and return of the Form or appointing a proxy electronically will not, however, prevent a Member from attending and voting at the Meeting.
A Member must inform the Registrars in writing of any termination of the authority of a proxy.
iv Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between them and the shareholder by whom they were nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, they may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
v The statement of rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in Notes ii and iii above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
vi Nominated persons are reminded that they should contact the registered holder of their shares and not the Company on matters relating to their investments in the Company.
vii CREST Members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting to be held on 4 September 2012 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal Members or other CREST sponsored Members, and those CREST Members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in iii above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST Members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST Member concerned to take or, if the CREST Member is a CREST personal Member or sponsored Member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 109 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2012 continued CREST Members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
The CREST Manual can be reviewed at www.
viii As at 10 July 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Companys issued share capital consists of 926,976,137 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 10 July 2012 are 926,976,137. ix A member of the Company which is a corporation may authorise a person or persons to act as its representative s at the Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
x Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold ofce since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys Auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
xi Any member attending the Meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the Meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the Meeting or involve the disclosure of condential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting that the question be answered.
xii A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found in the Annual Report section of the Investors page on our website www.
xiii Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at the Companys Registered Ofce and at the ofces of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD during normal business hours from the date of this Notice and until the conclusion of the Meeting: a service contracts of the Executive Directors: and b letters of appointment of the Chairman and the non-Executive Directors.
xiv The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer relevant questions at the Meeting.
xv You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Meeting or any related documents including the Form of Proxy to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Explanatory notes on the resolutions Resolution 1: Report and financial statements The Directors present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the Reports of the Directors and Auditor and the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2012.
These are contained in the Annual Report.
Resolution 2: Declaration of a final dividend Final dividends declared by shareholders must not exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
By passing Resolution 2, shareholders will declare a final dividend.
The amount of the final dividend recommended by the Directors is 4.0 pence net per ordinary share.
Resolution 3: Approval of Report on Remuneration As required by section 439 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholder approval is sought for the Remuneration Report set out on pages 43 to 54.
Resolution 4-9: Re-election of Directors The Articles of Association of the Company require that all Directors retire from ofce at least once every three years but if eligible can submit themselves for re-election by shareholders.
However, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, which recommends that directors of companies in the FTSE 350 be subject to annual re-election, the Directors have resolved that all Directors will retire and stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 110 Notice of Meeting Mr Davis is Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Committee.
Mr Roberts is the Group Chief Executive, a member of the Nomination Committee and Chairman of the General Purposes Committee.
Mr Dryden is the Group Finance Director and a member of the General Purposes Committee.
Mr Bunker is the Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Mr Mellier is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Mr Nicholls is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Having considered the performance of and contribution made by each of the Directors and following formal performance evaluation, the Board remains satisfied that and the Chairman confirms that the performance of each Director standing for re-election continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role and as such the Board recommends their re-election.
A biography of each Director appears on pages 34 and 35 of the Annual Report and appears on the Companys website at www.
Resolutions 10-11: Re-appointment of Auditor and Auditors remuneration The auditor of a company must be re-appointed at each general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 10 proposes the re-appointment of the Companys existing Auditor, Deloitte LLP, until the next Annual General Meeting and Resolution 11 gives authority to the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
Resolution 12: Authority to allot shares At the Annual General Meeting held on 6 September 2011, shareholders authorised the Directors, under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, to allot shares without the prior consent of shareholders for a period expiring at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2012 or, if earlier, on 1 November 2012.
It is proposed to renew this authority and to authorise the Directors under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company for a period expiring no later than 1 November 2013.
Paragraph a i of Resolution 12 will allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 30,899,204.57 representing approximately one third 33.33% of the Companys existing issued share capital and calculated as at 10 July 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this circular.
In accordance with institutional guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers, paragraph a ii of Resolution 12 will allow Directors to allot, including the ordinary shares referred to in paragraph a i of Resolution 12, further of the Companys ordinary shares in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue to ordinary shareholders up to a maximum nominal amount of 61,798,409.13, representing approximately two thirds 66.67% of the Companys existing issued share capital and calculated as at 10 July 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this circular.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
However, if they do exercise the authority, the Directors intend to follow emerging best practice as regards its use, as recommended by the Association of British Insurers.
Resolution 12 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to renew this authority until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, the close of business on 1 November 2013.
Resolution 13: Directors powers to disapply pre-emption rights Also at last years meeting, a special resolution was passed, under sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006, empowering the Directors to allot equity securities for cash without first being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders.
It is proposed that this authority also be renewed.
If approved, the Resolution will authorise the Directors to issue shares in connection with a rights issue and otherwise to issue shares for cash up to a maximum nominal amount of 4,634,880.69 which includes the sale on a non pre-emptive basis of any shares the Company may hold in treasury for cash.
The maximum nominal amount of equity securities to which this authority relates represents approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 10 July 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this circular.
The Directors do not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company for cash on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three year period without prior consultation with the shareholders and the Investment Committees of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
Resolution 13 will be proposed as a special resolution to renew this authority until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, the close of business on 1 November 2013.
Resolution 14: Companys authority to purchase shares This Resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks to renew the existing authority for the Company to purchase its own shares in the market.
This authority gives the Company greater exibility in managing its capital resources.
The Directors have no specic intention of using this authority and would do so only when, in the light of market conditions, they believed that the effect of such purchases would be to increase earnings per share, and that the purchases were in the interests of shareholders generally.
The Directors would also give careful consideration to gearing levels of the Company and its general financial position.
The purchase price would be paid out of distributable profits.
Resolution 14 species the maximum number of shares which may be purchased representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued share capital at 10 July 2012, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the minimum and maximum prices at which they may be bought and when the authority will expire, reecting the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules of the FSA.
The minimum price at which the shares may be purchased is their nominal value and the maximum price is the higher of 5% above the average of the middle market values of those shares for the five business days before the purchase is made and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 111 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2012 continued The Companies Act 2006 enables certain listed companies to hold shares in treasury, as an alternative to cancelling them, following a purchase of own shares by the Company.
Shares held in treasury may subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash or used to satisfy share options and share awards under the Companys share schemes.
Once held in treasury, the Company is not entitled to exercise any rights, including the right to attend and vote at meetings, in respect of those shares.
Further, no dividend or distribution of the Companys assets may be made to the Company in respect of those shares whilst held in treasury.
Accordingly, if the Directors exercise the authority conferred by Resolution 14, the Company will have the option of holding those shares in treasury rather than cancelling them.
The total number of ordinary shares that are under option through the Companys share option schemes at 10 July 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice is 7,261,451 of which 333,810 are options over unissued ordinary shares.
The proportion of issued ordinary share capital that the options over unissued ordinary shares represented on this date was 0.04% and the proportion of issued ordinary share capital that they will represent if the full authority to purchase shares existing and being sought is used is 0.03%.
The authority will expire at close of business on 1 November 2013 or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting whichever is the earlier.
It is the present intention of the Directors to seek a similar authority annually.
Resolution 15: Notice of general meetings The notice period required by the Companies Act 2006 for general meetings of the Company is 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
Annual General Meetings must always be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
At last years Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised the calling of general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on not less than 14 clear days notice and it is proposed that this authority be renewed.
The authority granted by this resolution, if passed, will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Note that if a general meeting is called on less than 21 clear days notice, the Company will make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
The exibility offered by this resolution will be used where, taking into account the circumstances, the Directors consider this appropriate in relation to the business of the meeting and in the interests of the Company and shareholders as a whole.
Recommendation Your Directors believe that all the proposals in the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of the resolutions.
The Directors will be voting in favour of the resolutions in respect of their own shareholdings.
Important notes about the Annual General Meeting Date Tuesday 4 September 2012.
Location At the ofces of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD.
Timing The Meeting will start promptly at 2.00pm and shareholders wishing to attend are advised to be in the venue no later than 1.50pm.
The reception area will be open from 1.30pm, from which time tea and coffee will be served.
Travel information A map on the reverse of the Admittance Card shows the location of the ofces of Allen & Overy LLP and the nearest underground and railway stations.
The venue is less than five minutes walk from Liverpool Street station.
There are no car-parking facilities at the venue.
Admission Please bring the Admittance Card which is the tear-off section to the right of the Form of Proxy with you to the Meeting.
You may be asked to show the Card before being admitted to the venue.
Shareholders and proxy holders may also be required to provide proof of identity.
The registration process may take longer without these documents.
Shareholders are politely requested to bring no more than one guest to the Meeting except by prior arrangement with the Company Secretary.
Facilities The ofces of Allen & Overy LLP have wheelchair access.
If you are planning to come to the Meeting and are a wheelchair user, please call 020 3088 4040 when nearing the building.
Enquiries and questions Shareholders who intend to ask a question related to the business of the Meeting are asked to provide their name, address and question at the Registration desk.
Staff from Equiniti will be on hand to provide advice and assistance.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 112 Shareholder Information Financial diary Registered Ofce and advisers Secretary and Registered Ofce 4 September 2012 Matt Jowett Annual General Meeting Beech House Whitebrook Park 3 October 2012 68 Lower Cookham Road Ex-dividend date for final dividend Maidenhead Berkshire SL6 8XY 1 November 2012 Registered in England No: 1377658 Payment of final dividend Auditor 6 December 2012 Deloitte LLP Announcement of half-year results for the six months ended 31 October 2012 2 New Street Square London EC4A 3BZ 3 April 2013 Solicitors Ex-dividend date for interim dividend Allen & Overy LLP 1 May 2013 One Bishops Square Payment of interim dividend London E1 6AD 27 June 2013 Principal clearing bank The Royal Bank of Scotland Announcement of final results for the year ended 30 April 2013 135 Bishopsgate provisional date London EC2M 3UR Stockbroker J. P. Morgan Cazenove Company website dividend payment instructions on-line without 10 Aldermanbury The Companys website at having to call or write to the Registrars.
com contains the Dividends latest information for shareholders, Registrars Shareholders who wish to have their including press releases and an updated Equiniti dividends paid directly into a bank or building financial diary.
E-mail alerts of the latest Aspect House society account should contact the Registrars.
news, press releases and financial reports Spencer Road In addition, the Registrars are now able to about DS Smith Plc may be obtained Lancing pay dividends in 36 foreign currencies.
by registering for the e-mail news alert West Sussex BN99 6DA This service is called TAPS and enables service on the website.
Registrars queries the payment of your dividends directly into Share price information Information on how to manage your bank account in your home currency.
The latest price of the Companys ordinary your shareholdings can be found at A charge of 2.50 is deducted from each shares is available from the FT Cityline service.
The dividend payment to cover the costs involved.
Calls within the UK are charged at 75 pence pages at this web address provide Please contact the Registrars to request per minute at all times.
To access this service, answers to commonly asked questions further information.
Alternatively click regarding shareholder registration, links to Share dealing services on www.
DS Smiths downloadable forms and guidance notes.
The Registrars offer a real-time telephone and ticker symbol is SMDS.
It is recommended that If your question is not answered by the internet dealing service.
Further details including you consult your financial adviser and verify information provided, you can send your terms and rates can be obtained by logging on information obtained from these services to the website at www.
co. uk dealing enquiry via secure email from these pages.
before making any investment decision.
You will be asked to complete a structured or by calling 0845 603 7037.
Lines are open Registrars form and to provide your Shareholder between 8am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Please contact the Registrars at the address Reference, Name and Address.
You will also J. P. Morgan Cazenove operates a low-cost below to advise of a change of address need to provide your email address if this is share dealing service for private investors who or for any enquiries relating to dividend how you would like to receive your response.
wish to buy or sell ordinary shares of the payments, lost share certicates or other Company.
This is an execution-only service and Alternatively, telephone: 0871 384 2197. share registration matters.
further details can be obtained from The Share Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday The Registrars provide on-line facilities at Dealing Service, J. P. Morgan Cazenove, to Friday.
Calls to this number will be charged www.
Once you have 10 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7RF.
at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline.
registered you will be able to access Telephone: 020 7155 5155.
Please Other telephone providers costs may vary.
information on your DS Smith Plc shareholding, note there is a minimum transaction level Overseas telephone: 44 121 415 7047. of 500 for using this service.
update your personal details and amend your DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 113 Principal Of ces Corporate Head Of ce DS Smith Plc Beech House DS Smith Plc Whitebrook Park Beech House 68 Lower Cookham Road Whitebrook Park Maidenhead 68 Lower Cookham Road Berkshire SL6 8XY Maidenhead Telephone 44 0 1628 583 400 Berkshire SL6 8XY Telephone 44 0 1628 583 400 Businesses Fax 44 0 1628 583 401 DS Smith Kaysersberg E-mail ir@dssmith.
com 77 Route fide Lapoutroie 68240 Kayersberg France Telephone 33 0 3 89 78 30 00 DS Smith Packaging Beech House Whitebrook Park 68 Lower Cookham Road Maidenhead Berkshire SL6 8XY Telephone 44 0 1753 754 380 DS Smith Packaging France 8 Terrasse Bellini 92800 Puteaux France Telephone 33 0 1 49 01 48 48 DS Smith Paper Head Of ce Kemsley Mill Sittingbourne Kent ME10 2TD Telephone 44 0 1795 518 900 DS Smith Plastics Butlers Leap Clifton Road Rugby Warwickshire CV21 3RQ Telephone 44 0 1788 532 861 DS Smith Recycling Ty Gwyrdd 11 Beddau Way Caerphilly Mid Glamorgan CF83 2AX Telephone 44 0 2920 718 400 Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using their pureprint environmental print technology on Core Silk made from FSC certi ed bre.
Pureprint Group is a carbon neutral company registered to EMAS, the Eco Management Audit Scheme and certi ed to ISO 14001 Environmental Management System.
Design and production by Black Sun Plc London www.
