Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 72 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 73 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Company financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The accounts of the Company are prepared under the historical cost convention, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, applicable accounting standards and specifically in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at the adjusted cost of the investment, IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 share-based payments requires the Parent Company to recognise an increase in the cost of its investment in a subsidiary which has issued share options in the Parent Companys shares to its employees.
Current assets Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and then carried at amortised cost net of impairment provisions.
Bank borrowings and borrowing costs Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received.
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the financial period in which they are incurred.
Borrowings are classed as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Where a Group Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other Group Companies within the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Share capital Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received net of any directly attributable incremental transactions costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
Share-based payments The Company operates three share option schemes details of which are set out in note 12.
The fair value of options granted is realised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value of employee services received in the subsidiaries under these schemes are recognised as an expense in the financial statements of the subsidiary undertakings which benefit from the employee services.
The company has recognised the fair value of the share-based payments as an increase in equity with a corresponding adjustment to investments.
Fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
Fair value is measured using the binomial model, taking into account the terms and conditions applicable to the options.
At each balance sheet date the Company revises its estimates of the number of share incentives expected to vest.
Any impact of this revision is recognised as an adjustment to equity with a corresponding adjustment to investments.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved such that the Company is obligated to pay the dividend.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 72 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 73 Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax represents the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, together with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be recognised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be recognised.
Adopted IFRS and IFRIC not yet applied At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards, amendments and interpretations were in place but not yet effective: IFRS 7 Revised IFRS 7 - Financial Instruments: Disclosure IFRS 9 New standard - Financial Instruments IFRS 10 New standard - Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 12 New standard - Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 13 New standard - Fair Value Measurement IAS 32 Revised IAS 32 - Financial Instruments: Presentation The above will be adopted in the Group and Companys financial statements when they become effective.
When adopted none of the above standards or amendments are expected to have any significant impact on the financial statements of the Group or Company.
IFRS 9 will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The Standard contains two primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost: and fair value.
