easyJet plc 104 Annual report and accounts 2012 Accounts & other information Glossary Aircraft dry wet leasing Passengers Payments to lessors under dry leasing arrangements relate solely Number of earned seats flown.
Earned seats comprises seats to the provision of an aircraft.
Payments to lessors under wet sold to passengers including no-shows, seats provided leasing arrangements relate to the provision of aircraft, crew, for promotional purposes and seats provided to staff for maintenance and insurance.
Aircraft owned leased at end of year Profit before tax per seat Number of aircraft owned or on lease arrangements of over Profit before tax divided by seats flown.
one months duration at the end of the period.
Return on capital employed ROCE excluding Available seat kilometres ASK operating leases Seats flown multiplied by the number of kilometres flown.
Normalised profit after tax divided by average net debt plus average shareholders equity.
Average fare Passenger and ancillary revenue divided by passengers.
Return on capital employed ROCE including operating leases Block hours Normalised profit after tax adjusted for implied interest on Hours of service for aircraft, measured from the time that the operating lease costs, divided by average net debt plus aircraft leaves the terminal at the departure airport to the time average shareholders equity, plus an adjustment to capitalise that it arrives at the terminal at the destination airport.
operating leases at seven times the annual lease rental, in line Cost per ASK with market practice.
Revenue less profit before tax, divided by available Return on equity seat kilometres.
Profit for the year divided by the average of opening and closing Cost per seat shareholders equity.
Revenue less profit before tax, divided by seats flown.
Revenue Cost per seat, excluding fuel The sum of passenger revenue and ancillary revenue.
Revenue, less profit before tax, plus fuel costs, divided Revenue passenger kilometres RPK by seats flown.
Number of passengers multiplied by the number of kilometres EBITDAR those passengers were flown.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortisation, Revenue per ASK aircraft dry leasing costs, and profit or loss on disposal of assets Revenue divided by available seat kilometres.
Revenue per seat Gearing Revenue divided by seats flown.
Net debt adjusted by adding seven times aircraft dry leasing payments for the year and deducting restricted cash divided Seats flown by the sum of shareholders equity and adjusted net debt.
Load factor Sector Number of passengers as a percentage of number of seats A one-way revenue flight.
The load factor is not weighted for the effect of varying sector lengths.
Operated aircraft utilisation Average number of block hours per day per aircraft operated.
Other costs Administrative and operational costs not reported elsewhere, including some employee costs, compensation paid to passengers, exchange gains and losses and the profit or loss on the disposal of property plant and equipment.
THANK YOU Wed like to thank everyone who has helped to produce this report: Paul Ablin, Charlotte Allin, Paul Atkins, Angela Bennett, Alita Benson, Warwick Brady, MikeCampbell, Phil Chastell, Edward Coppock, Trevor Didcock, Peter Duffy, Chris Gadsden, Lewis Girdwood, Val Goldine, Bruce James, Chris Kennedy, Rachel Kentleton, Ken Lawrie, Cath Lynn, Carolyn McCall OBE, Andrew McConnell, Nicola McGarry, Reema Mehta, PaulMoore, Shahina Mostafa, Reg Otten, Chris Paull, Giles Pemberton, Sir Michael Rake, Zarina Sabir, Neil Slaven, Tom Smethers, AndrewTempest, Charles Whitehouse, HelenWhittle and all of our employees across the network.
This annual report is printed on Amadeus 100 Silk paper and board, produced using 100% deinked, recycled bre.
Both the paper mill and the printer involved in this production hold ISO 14001 accreditation, which species a process for continuous environmental improvement, and both are FSC certied.
If after reading, you no longer wish to retain this report, please pass it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
This report is available at: http: corporate.
aspx Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Hangar 89 London Luton Airport Luton Bedfordshire LU2 9PF
