Governance easyJet plc 49 Annual report and accounts 2012 Shareholder information Share capital Substantial interests Details of the movements in authorised and issued share capital In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5, during the year are provided in note 17 to the accounts.
the Company as at 16 November 2012, has been notified of the following disclosable interests of 3% or more in its issued The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary ordinary shares: shares are set out in the Articles.
% Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares easyGroup Holdings Ltd None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard Holding vehicle for Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou 26.07 to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than: Polys Haji-Ioannou 11.11 Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed Standard Life Investments Ltd 7.36 by laws or regulations such as those relating to insider dealing: Prudential Group of Companies M&G 6.24 Pursuant to the Companys code for securities transactions Note: Changes to the position above since 16 November 2012 whereby the Directors and designated employees require can be found at our corporate website, approval to deal in the Companys shares: http: corporate.
Where a person with an interest in the Companys shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to Registered office provide the Company with information concerning interests Hangar 89 in those shares: London Luton Airport Where a proposed transferee of the Companys shares has Luton failed to furnish to the Directors a declaration of nationality Bedfordshire together with such evidence as the Directors may require LU2 9PF as required by the Companys Articles of Association: and Company registrar The powers given to the Directors by the Companys Articles Equiniti Limited of Association to limit the ownership of the Companys shares Aspect House by non UK nationals and powers to enforce this limitation Spencer Road including the right to force a sale of any affected shares.
Lancing West Sussex The Company is not aware of any arrangements between BN99 6DA shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors Employee share schemes rights of control of the Company will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming The trustee of the easyJet Share Incentive Plan the Plan will, on Annual General Meeting.
receipt of any offer, compromise, arrangement or scheme which affects ordinary shares held in the Plan, invite participants to direct Company number the trustee on the exercise of any voting rights attaching to the 3959649 ordinary shares held by the trustee on their behalf and or direct how the trustee shall act in relation to those ordinary shares.
The trustee shall take no action in respect of ordinary shares for which it has received no directors or ordinary shares which are unallocated.
Generally, on a poll the trustee shall vote in accordance with directors given by participants.
In the absence of directions or on a show of hands the trustee shall not vote.
The trustee of the easyJet Employee Share Trust the Trust, which is used in connection with the easyJet Long Term Incentive Plan, has the power to vote or not vote at its discretion in respect of any shares in the Company held in the Trust.
