Accounts & other information easyJet plc 101 Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the Company accounts a Income statement and statement of total comprehensive income In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
The Companys profit for the year was 153 million 2011: 16 million.
Included in this amount are dividends received of 130 million 2011: 3 million, which are recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
The Company recognised no other income or expenses in either the current or prior year.
The Company has eight employees at 30 September 2012 2011: eight.
These are the Non-Executive Directors of easyJet plc: their remuneration is paid by easyJet Airline Company Limited.
The Executive Directors of easyJet plc are employed and paid by easyJet Airline Company Limited.
Details of directors remuneration are disclosed in the Report on Directors remuneration and in note 4 to the consolidated accounts.
b Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings were as follows: 2012 2011 million million At 1 October 271 271 Capital contributions to subsidiaries 12 6 Capital distributions made by subsidiaries 6 At 30 September 283 271 Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment.
Where subsidiary undertakings incur charges for share-based payments in respect of share options and awards granted by the Company, a capital contribution in the same amount is recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings with a corresponding credit to shareholders equity.
The principal trading subsidiary undertakings, all of which are included in the consolidated accounts, are shown below.
A full list of Group companies will be included in the Companys next annual return, in accordance with Section 410 of the Companies Act 2006.
Class and percentage of ordinary Country of incorporation Principal activity shares held easyJet Airline Company Limited England and Wales Airline operator 100 easyJet Switzerland S. A. Switzerland Airline operator 49 easyJet Sterling Limited Cayman Islands Aircraft trading and leasing 100 easyJet Leasing Limited Cayman Islands Aircraft trading and leasing 100 The Company has a 49% interest in easyJet Switzerland S. A. with an option that expires in 2014 to acquire the remaining 51%.
easyJet Switzerland S. A. is consolidated as a subsidiary on the basis that the Company exercises a dominant influence over the undertaking.
A non-controlling interest has not been reflected in the accounts on the basis that holders of the remaining 51% of the shares have no entitlement to any dividends from that holding and the Company has an option to acquire those shares for a predetermined consideration.
easyJet plc 102 Annual report and accounts 2012 Accounts & other information Notes to the Company accounts continued c Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations 2012 2011 million million Operating profit 146 2 Adjustments for non-cash items: Unrealised foreign exchange differences 15 1 Changes in working capital: Increase in amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 340 19 Increase decrease in amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 263 10 54 26 d Guarantees and contingent liabilities The Company has given a formal undertaking to the Civil Aviation Authority to guarantee the payment and discharge of all liabilities of easyJet Airline Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
The guarantee is required for that company to maintain its operating licence under Regulation 3 of the Licensing of Air Carriers Regulations 1992.
The Company has issued a guarantee in favour of easyJet Airline Company Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, in relation to the processing of credit card transactions, and also in respect of hedging transactions carried out according to treasury policy.
The Company has guaranteed the contractual obligations of easyJet Airline Company Limited and easyJet Leasing Limited, both subsidiary undertakings, in respect of its contractual obligations to Airbus SAS in respect of the supply of Airbus 320 family aircraft.
The Company has guaranteed the repayment of borrowings that financed the acquisition of aircraft by subsidiary undertakings.
The Company has also guaranteed the payment obligations for the lease of aircraft by subsidiary undertakings.
The Company has guaranteed certain letters of credit which have been issued by a bank on behalf of subsidiary undertakings.
No amount is recognised on the Company statement of financial position in respect to any of these guarantees as it is not probable that there will be an outflow of resources.
e Related party transactions Transactions with subsidiary undertakings, which principally relate to the provision of funding within the Group, are carried out on an arms length basis.
Outstanding balances are placed on intercompany accounts with no specified credit period, are unsecured, and bear market rates of interest.
For full details of transactions and arrangements with easyJets largest shareholder, see note 26 of the Group accounts.
