70 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued 1 Accounting policies continued Amendments to IAS1 Presentation of Items of Other Own shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT Comprehensive Income Transactions of the Group-sponsored ESOT are included in the The amendments require an entity to present the items of other consolidated financial statements.
In particular, the ESOTs purchases comprehensive that may be recycled to profit or loss in the future if of shares in the Company are charged directly to equity.
certain conditions are met, separately from those that would never be recycled to profit or loss.
Investments Investments comprising loans and receivables are stated at amortised cost.
Amendments to IFRS7 Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Government grants Grants against capital expenditure from The amendments require disclosure of include information that will government and other bodies are shown separately in the balance enable users of an entitys financial statements to evaluate the effect sheet.
Such grants are released to the profit and loss account over the or potential effect of netting arrangements, including rights of set-off same period for which the relevant assets are depreciated.
associated with the entitys recognised financial assets and recognised financial liabilities, on the entitys financial position.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations A non-current asset or a group of assets containing a non-current asset IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement a disposal group, is classied as held for sale if its carrying amount will This standard explains how to measure fair value and introduces be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing enhanced fair value disclosure.
use, it is available for immediate sale and is highly probable within one year.
On initial classication as held for sale, non-current assets and The Group has not yet determined the potential impact of Amendments to disposal groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying amount IAS1, Amendments to IFRS 7 and IFRS 13 on the 2013 financial statements.
and fair value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken to profit or loss.
The same applies to gains and losses on subsequent 2 Operating segments remeasurement.
Business segments The Group has determined its operating segments on the basis of those A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that used for management, internal reporting purposes and the allocation represents a separate major line of business or geographic area of PG TUSBUFHJD SFTPVSDFT O BDDPSEBODF XJUI UIF QSPWJTJPOT PG '34 operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale, the Groups chief operating decision maker is the Board of Directors.
that has been disposed of has been abandoned or that meets the The three reportable segments, Specialty Products, Surfactants and criteria to be classied as held for sale.
Chromium each have distinct product groupings and, with the exception of Surfactants which shares a common management Termination benets Termination benets are recognised as an expense structure with Specialty Products, separate management structures.
when the Group is demonstrably committed, without realistic possibility of Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable withdrawal, to a formal detailed plan to terminate employment before the to a segment and those that may be reasonably allocated from normal retirement date.
Termination benets for voluntary redundancies corporate activities.
Presentation of the segmental results is on a basis are recognised if the Group has made an offer encouraging voluntary consistent with those used for reporting Group results.
Principal redundancy, it is probable that the offer will be accepted, and the number activities of the reportable segments are as follows: of acceptances can be estimated reliably.
Specialty Products production of rheological additives, New standards and interpretations not yet adopted New standards, compounded products and colourants.
amendments to standards and interpretations that are not yet effective Surfactants production of surface active ingredients.
for the year ended 31 December 2012, and have not been applied in Chromium production of chromium chemicals.
preparing these consolidated financial statements, but that become mandatory for the Groups 2013 financial statements are as follows: The inter-segment revenue identied below represents the sale of these products from the Chromium to Specialty Products business.
InterAmendment to IAS 19 Employee Benets segment pricing is set at a level that equates to the manufacturing cost The amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benets make substantial changes of the product plus a commercially appropriate mark up.
to the recognition, measurement and disclosure of retirement benefit obligations.
The most significant change is that the expected return on Unallocated items and those relating to corporate functions such as tax plan assets, currently calculated using managements estimate of the and treasury are presented in the tables below as central costs.
return on the appropriate assets, will be replaced by a gure calculated by applying the liability discount rate to the pension plan assets.
Additionally, past service costs may no longer be amortised over the average period until the benets become vested and therefore are recognised earlier.
The Group estimates that had the revised standard been applied in the current financial year the profit before tax gure would have been $ NJMMJPO MPXFS ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
