100 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued 29 Acquisition continued The estimated contribution of Watercryl to the results of the Group, had the acquisition been made on 1 January 2012, and assuming that the fair value adjustments that arose on acquisition would have been the same at the earlier date, are as follows: 2012 $million Revenue 9.0 Operating profit after intangible amortisation 2.3 30 Contingent liabilities As is the case with other chemical companies, the Group occasionally receives notices of litigation relating to regulatory and legal matters.
A provision is recognised when the Group believes it has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outow of economic benets will be required to settle the obligation.
Where it is deemed that an obligation is merely possible and that the probability of a material outow is not remote, the Group would disclose a contingent liability.
As previously reported, Elementis LTP Inc. LTP was named as a defendant in chromium-related litigation in the State of Missouri the Missouri Litigation.
The Missouri Litigation developed into the following types of cases: 1 a class action seeking medical monitoring damages for QVUBUJWF DMBTT NFNCFST XIP MJWF JO B GPVS DPVOUZ BSFB BQQSPYJNBUFMZ DBTFT JOWPMWJOH PWFS JOEJWJEVBM QMBJOUJGGT BMMFHJOH QSPQFSUZ BOE or personal injury: and 3 a class action seeking property damages for an unspecified number of putative class members.
Also as previously reported, a in December 2010, the Court entered its order of dismissal of the class action seeking damages for medical monitoring described in clause 1 above, with no nding of liability or fault against LTP, b in December 2011, LTP secured summary judgement in its favour in an individual plaintiff case described in clause 2 above, and c in January 2012, LTP secured summary judgement in its favour in the class action seeking property damages described in clause 3 above.
The last of the individual plaintiff cases described in clause 2 above was dismissed in April 2012, with no nding of liability or fault against LTP.
There have been no Missouri Litigation cases remaining outstanding against LTP since April 2012 and, accordingly, management has concluded that there is no longer, and has not been since that date, a contingent liability relating to the Missouri Litigation.
31 Post balance sheet event On 19 February 2013 the Group purchased the trading assets of Hi-Mar Specialty Chemicals, LLC Hi-Mar, a US coatings additives company, for a cash consideration of $33 million.
Hi-Mar was established in 1973 and is a leading supplier of defoamers to the coatings, construction and oileld drilling industries, with manufacturing and technical facilities based in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
For the 12 months ended 31 December 2012, the acquired business reported, on an unaudited basis, sales of $14.5 million and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of $3.5 million.
Identication of the fair value of the assets acquired, including an assessment of any separable intangible assets, and liabilities assumed will be carried out in accordance with IFRS 3 during the next 12 months.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
