68 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued 1 Accounting policies continued In accordance with the transitional rules of IFRS 1, the Company has not g Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and restated business combinations that took place prior to the date of equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and transition to IFRS of 1 January 2004.
As a consequence the Scheme of impairment losses.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
"Leasehold ""SSBOHFNFOU FOUFSFE JOUP JO XIFSFCZ UIF $PNQBOZ BDRVJSFE property is depreciated over the period of the lease."
Freehold Elementis Holdings Limited and applied the true and fair override to buildings, plant and machinery, xtures, ttings and equipment account for the transaction as a merger has not been restated under IFRS.
are depreciated over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and assessed at the reporting date.
No depreciation is charged on expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in assets under construction until the asset is brought into use.
preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities Estimates of useful lives of these assets are: are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, Buildings 10 50 years but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Plant and machinery 2 20 years Fixtures, ttings and equipment 2 20 years Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant inuence, but not control over the financial and operating The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it share of the post-acquisition total recognised gains and losses and the is probable that the future economic benets embodied within net assets of associates on an equity accounted basis.
Where the it will ow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
Groups share of losses exceeds its investment in an associate, the The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further equipment are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred a legal or constructive obligation.
Management regularly considers whether there are any indications of impairment to carrying values of property, plant Foreign currency and equipment.
Impairment reviews are based on risk adjusted a Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign discounted cash ow projections.
significant judgement is currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling applied to the assumptions underlying these projections which at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities include estimated discount rates, growth rates, future selling denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date prices and direct costs.
Changes to these assumptions could have are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
a material impact on the financial position of the Group and on Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised the result for the year.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include translated at exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the was determined.
A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, b Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity to obtain liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value benets from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at exchange disposed of during a period are included in the consolidated financial rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses statements from the date that control commences until the date that of foreign operations are translated at the average rates of control ceases.
exchange ruling for the relevant period.
Exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 on translation are taken to the The Group adopted IFRS 3 revised, Business Combinations, for translation reserve.
They are recognised in the income statement business combinations where the acquisition date was on or after upon disposal of the foreign operation.
The Group may hedge a 1 January 2010.
This measures goodwill at the acquisition date as the portion of the translation of its overseas net assets through fair value of the consideration transferred, the recognised amount pounds sterling and Euro borrowings.
From 1 January 2005, the of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree plus, if the business Group has elected to apply net investment hedge accounting combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity for these transactions where possible.
Where hedging is applied, interest in the acquiree, less the fair value of the identiable assets the effective portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to acquired and liabilities assumed.
Acquisition costs are accounted hedge a net investment is recognised in equity.
Any ineffective for as an expense in the period incurred.
For acquisitions that were portion of the hedge is recognised in the income statement.
made by the Group between its initial adoption of IFRS in 2005 and 31 December 2009 goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection with business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
