66 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2012 1 Accounting policies b Pension and other post-retirement benets In respect of the Elementis plc is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group Groups dened benefit schemes, the Groups net obligation in financial statements have been prepared and approved by the respect of dened benefit pension plans is calculated by directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRS.
The Company earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the accordance with the UK GAAP.
These are presented on fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The liability discount rate pages 101 to 105. is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups Basis of preparation The financial statements have been obligations.
Pension and post-retirement liabilities are calculated prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial by qualied actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The instruments and financial instruments held for trading or available expected increase in the present value of scheme liabilities and for sale are stated at their fair value.
Non-current assets held for the long term expected return on assets based on the fair value of sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less the scheme assets at the start of the period, are included in the costs to sell.
The preparation of financial statements requires the income statement under finance income.
application of estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and costs and related Any difference between the expected return on assets and that disclosures at the balance sheet date.
The accounting policies set achieved is recognised in the statement of comprehensive out below have been consistently applied across Group companies income together with the difference from experience or to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The Group recognises all such actuarial The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern gains and losses in the period in which they occur through the basis.
The rationale for adopting this basis is discussed in the statement of comprehensive income.
The Group also operates %JSFDUPST SFQPSU PO QBHF a small number of dened contribution schemes and the contributions payable during the year are recognised as incurred.
Reporting currency As a consequence of the majority of the Groups Due to the size of the pension scheme assets and liabilities, sales and earnings originating in US dollars or US dollar linked relatively small changes in the assumptions can have a significant currencies, the Group has chosen the US dollar as its reporting impact on the expense recorded in the income statement and on currency.
This aligns the Groups external reporting with the prole the pension liability recorded in the balance sheet.
of the Group, as well as with internal management reporting.
c Intangible assets Critical accounting policies Critical accounting policies are those i Goodwill All business combinations since the transition to IFRS that require significant judgements or estimates and potentially on 1 January 2004 are accounted for by applying the purchase result in materially different results under different assumptions or method.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred conditions.
It is considered that the Groups critical accounting since the transition date, goodwill represents the difference policies are limited to those described below.
The development of between the cost of the consideration given and the fair value the estimates and disclosures related to each of these matters has of net identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities been discussed by the Audit Committee.
In respect of acquisitions prior to this date, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the a Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when amount recorded under previous GAAP.
Goodwill is allocated the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result to cash-generating units and tested annually for impairment.
of a past event, and it is probable that an outow of economic Changes to the assumptions used in impairment testing could benets will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is have a material impact on the financial position of the Group and material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected of the result for the year.
future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, ii Research and development Expenditure on research is the risks specic to the liability.
recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development where research findings are applied A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the improved products and processes is capitalised if the product or restructuring has either commenced or has been announced process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group publicly.
In accordance with the Groups environmental policy has sufficient resources to complete development.
Expenditure and applicable legal requirements, a provision for site restoration capitalised is stated as the cost of materials, direct labour and in respect of contaminated land is recognised when the land is an appropriate proportion of overheads less accumulated contaminated.
Provisions for environmental issues are amortisation.
Other development expenditure is recognised judgemental by their nature and more difficult to estimate when in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
they relate to sites no longer directly controlled by the Group.
Elementis has taken a consistent approach to estimating environmental provisions.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
