102 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ELEMENTIS PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 1 Accounting policies Share based payments The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in The fair value of share options granted to employees is recognised dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
Where the financial statements, except as noted below.
"Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises in its individual financial statements an Basis of preparation increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to The Companys financial statements have been prepared in the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its accordance with UK GAAP and under the historical cost accounting subsidiaries financial statements, with the corresponding credit SVMFT 6OEFS TFDUJPO PG UIF $PNQBOJFT ""DU UIF $PNQBOZ JT being recognised directly in equity."
The fair value is measured at exempt from the requirement to present its profit and loss account.
grant date and spread over the period during which the employees As the Companys voting rights are controlled within the Group become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the headed by Elementis plc, the Company has taken advantage options granted is measured using a binomial model, taking into PG UIF FYFNQUJPO DPOUBJOFE JO '34 BOE IBT UIFSFGPSF OPU EJTDMPTFE account the terms and conditions upon which the options were transactions or balances with wholly owned entities which form part granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reect of the group or investees of the group qualifying as related parties.
the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of Classication of financial instruments issued by the Company exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and In accordance with FRS 25, financial instruments issued by the liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the Company are treated as equity only to the extent that they meet the contracted rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet following two conditions: date and the gains and losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
a they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets Investments or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are Investments in group undertakings are included in the balance sheet potentially unfavourable to the Company: and at cost, or if lower, directors valuation.
b where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own Dividends on shares presented within shareholders funds equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Companys exchanging a xed amount of cash or other financial Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in assets for a xed number of its own equity instruments.
the notes to the financial statements.
To the extent that the denition is not met, the proceeds of issue are Pensions and other post-retirement benets classied as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classied The Company participates in the Elementis Group dened benefit takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts pension scheme.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and those of the Company.
The Company is unable to identify its share of share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
the underlying assets and liabilities in the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis and as required by FRS 17, it has treated the scheme Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as if it were a dened contribution scheme.
As a result, the amount as part of interest payable and similar charges.
Finance payments charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions associated with financial instruments that are classied as part of payable for the year.
shareholders funds, are dealt with as appropriations in the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds.
"Taxation Deferred taxation is recognised without discounting, in respect of all 2 profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation ""T QFSNJUUFE CZ 4FDUJPO PG UIF $PNQBOJFT ""DU UIF and accounting purposes that have originated but not reversed at the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account."
A loss balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
Advance PG b NJMMJPO b NJMMJPO QSPmU JT EFBMU XJUI JO UIF mOBODJBM corporation tax recoverable by deduction from future corporation tax statements of the Company.
is carried forward within deferred taxation or as ACT recoverable within debtors as appropriate.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
