39 After evaluating the covenant compliance modelling and the significant agreements change of control on-going trading of the businesses, the directors are satisfied that There are few significant agreements which the Company is party the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to that take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control to operate for the foreseeable future as going concerns.
The Company is a guarantor under the Groups reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing $100 million revolving credit facility and, in the event of a change of these financial statements.
control, any lender among the facility syndicate, of which there are six with commitments ranging from $10 million to $22.5 million, Share capital may withdraw from the facility and that lenders participation in The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares, as set any loans drawn down are required to be repaid.
out in Note 7 to the Parent Company Financial Statements on page 104.
All of the Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and Under David Dutros service contract with the Company, rank equally in all respects.
The rights attached to them, in addition compensation is payable to him equivalent to one years basic salary to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the if he terminates his contract upon a change of control provided that Companys articles of association the Articles.
Other than those the Company has not first obtained a written agreement to be bound specic provisions set out in the Articles, there are no restrictions by his service contract from any successor in a change of control.
on the transfer of ordinary shares or on the exercise of voting rights There is no specic change of control provision in Brian Taylorsons attached to them.
From time to time the Elementis Employee Share service contract with the Company but the provisions on early Ownership Trust Trust holds shares in the Company for the termination set out on page 55 of the Report of the Remuneration purposes of various share incentive plans and the rights attaching Committee apply to him.
to them are exercised by independent trustees, who may take into account any recommendation by the Company.
As at 31 December The rules of the Companys various share incentive schemes set out 2012 the Trust held no ordinary shares of 5 pence each in the Company the consequences of a change of control of the Company on the 2011: 1,165,719 shares.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of all rights of the participants under those schemes.
Under the rules of the shares that may become held by the Trust.
respective schemes, participants would generally be able to exercise their options on a change of control, provided that the relevant Directors, Articles and purchase of shares performance conditions have been satisfied and, where relevant, The directors powers are conferred on them by UK legislation and options are not exchanged for new options granted by an by the Companys Articles.
Rules about the appointment and acquiring company.
replacement of directors are also set out in the Articles.
significant relationships Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders passing The Group has in place a number of supply contracts for key raw a special resolution.
The Notice of Meeting for the 2013 AGM materials that are essential to the business and maintains a broad includes information about proposed changes to the Articles which supplier base for these key raw materials.
In Specialty Products, shareholders are being asked to approve.
These are largely changes supply contracts are for clays, quaternary amines and other chemical of a procedural nature or to tidy up provisions that have become intermediates.
Specialty Products also owns and operates a hectorite redundant.
The changes include: deleting the objects clauses from clay mine in California which reduces our reliance on third party the Articles: putting all resolutions to be voted on at general meetings suppliers for raw materials.
The Surfactants business sources a to a poll ballot without a vote on a show of hands first: removing the number of products from a reasonably wide base of third party Chairmans right to a casting vote: amending the retirement by suppliers for use in the manufacturing of its products.
These include rotation provision so that all directors stand for annual re-election supplies for ethylene oxide, propylene oxide, nonylphenol ethoxylate rather than at three year intervals: and increasing the maximum limit and fatty alcohols.
The Chromium divisions key raw materials are for non-executive directors fees currently xed at 500,000 per chrome ore, soda ash and sulphuric acid.
In addition, all businesses annum.
The reasons for the changes are explained in the Notice purchase energy in the form of natural gas, fuel oil or electricity and of Meeting.
it is Group practice to enter into agreements with suppliers to lock in the price of at least 50 per cent of its energy costs for each year.
The Board has the power conferred on it by shareholders to Information about individual suppliers is not disclosed as the Board purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power considers that disclosure would be seriously prejudicial to the Group.
at the forthcoming AGM within the limits set out in the Notice of Meeting.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW
