82 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued 21 Financial risk management continued Trade and other receivables The Groups exposure to credit risk is inuenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The demographics of the Groups customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers operate, has less of an inuence on credit risk.
No single customer accounts for a significant proportion of the Groups revenue and geographically there is no concentration of credit risk.
Each new customer is analysed individually for creditworthiness before the Groups standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered.
The Groups review includes external ratings, where available, and in some cases bank references.
Purchase limits are established for each customer, which represents the maximum open amount without requiring approval from the Board.
Customers that fail to meet the Groups benchmark creditworthiness may transact with the Group only on a prepayment basis.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables.
The main components of this allowance are a specic loss component that relates to individually significant exposures, and a collective loss component established for groups of similar assets in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identied.
The collective loss allowance is determined based on historical data of payment statistics for similar assets.
Investments The Group limits its exposure to credit risk through a treasury policy that imposes graduated limits on the amount of funds that can be deposited with counterparties by reference to the counterparties credit ratings, as dened by Standard & Poors or Moodys.
Management does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Groups funding policy is to have committed borrowings in place to cover at least 125 per cent of the maximum forecast net borrowings for the next 12 month period.
At the year end the Group had $203.5 million 2011: $201.9 million of undrawn committed facilities, of which $190.0 million expires after more than one year.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, whilst optimising the return on risk.
The Group uses derivatives in the ordinary course of business, and also incurs financial liabilities, in order to manage market risks.
All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the Board.
Currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a foreign currency other than the respective functional currencies of Group entities, primarily the US Dollar and the Euro.
The Group hedges up to 100 per cent of current and forecast trade receivables and trade payables denominated in a foreign currency.
The Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its currency risk, most with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.
Interest on borrowings is denominated in currencies that match the cash ows generated by the underlying operations of the Group, primarily US Dollar, but also Euro and GBP.
This provides an economic hedge and no derivatives are entered into.
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, the Group ensures that its net exposure is kept to an acceptable level by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates when necessary to address short term imbalances.
The Groups investment in overseas subsidiaries is hedged by US Dollar denominated drawdowns under the syndicated facility, which mitigates the currency risk arising from the translation of a subsidiarys net assets.
Interest rate risk The Groups policy is to borrow at both xed and oating interest rates and to use interest rate swaps to generate the required interest prole.
The policy does not require that a specic proportion of the Groups borrowings are at xed rates of interest.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
