38 DIRECTORS REPORT Report and financial statements Elementis policies seek to create a workplace that has an open The directors submit their report and the audited financial statements atmosphere of trust, honesty and respect.
Harassment or for the year ended 31 December 2012. discrimination of any kind based on race, colour, religion, gender, age, national origin, citizenship, mental or physical disabilities, sexual Principal activities, business review and future orientation, veteran status, or any other similarly protected status development is not tolerated.
This principle applies to all aspects of employment For the purposes of this report, the expression Company or from recruitment and promotion, through to termination and all Elementis means Elementis plc and the expression Group means other terms and conditions of employment.
the Company and its subsidiaries.
It is Group policy not to discriminate on the basis of any unlawful The main activities of the Group are the manufacture and sale of criteria and its practices include the prohibition on the use of child specialty chemicals.
The Business review, comprising the following or forced labour.
Employment policies are fair and equitable and sections, Summary of strategic progress, Chairmans statement, consistent with the skills and abilities of the employee and the needs Group Chief Executives overview, Our businesses, Finance report of the business.
Employees are free to join a trade union or participate incorporating Key performance indicators and the Risk management in collective bargaining arrangements.
report and Corporate social responsibility report, forms part of this Directors report and contains a fair review of, and likely future trends It is also Group policy, for employees who have a disability, to provide and factors that might affect, the development, performance and continuing employment under normal terms and conditions, where position of the Group.
practicable, and to provide training, career development and promotion, as appropriate.
The Group undertakes, on a continuing basis, research and development activities for new products and to improve Elementis supports the wider fundamental human rights of its existing products.
employees worldwide, as well as those of our customers and suppliers, and further details are set out in the Corporate social Takeover directive disclosures responsibility report.
This Directors report constitutes the management report for the purposes of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Employee communications and involvement Rules DTR.
In addition, the Corporate governance report on The Group has processes in place for communicating with all its pages 42 to 45, the Directors responsibility statement on page 41 employees.
Employee communications include information about and the biographical information on the directors shown on page 36 the performance of the Group, on major matters affecting their work, all form part of this Directors report for the purposes of the DTR.
employment or workplace and to encourage them to get involved in social or community events.
Results and dividend The Group profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the As is common practice, the Company operates savings-based share parent amounted to $107.1 million 2011: $124.1 million.
option schemes in the US and UK to encourage employees to become shareholders and share in the success of the Group.
Further details of Details about the final dividend for the year, as well as a special these schemes are set out on page 96 and 97. dividend, are disclosed in the Chairmans statement on pages 8 and 9.
Going concern Directors and their share interests In assessing the Group as a going concern, the directors have given The directors of the Company are Robert Beeston, Ian Brindle, consideration to the factors likely to affect its future performance and Andrew Christie, David Dutro, Chris Girling, Kevin Matthews and development, the Groups financial position and the principal risks Brian Taylorson.
All of these directors served on the Board throughout and uncertainties facing the Group, including the Groups exposure the financial year.
Biographical information about each director is to credit, liquidity and market risk and the mechanisms for dealing shown on page 36. with these risks.
The interests of directors in the share capital of the Company are set The Group had a net cash position at the year end of $44.0 million out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
and also had access to a syndicated revolving credit facility of $200 million, which expires in July 2014.
Due to the highly cash Re-election of directors and Board evaluation generative nature of Group businesses and the strong balance sheet, All directors will be retiring at the 2013 Annual General Meeting the Company reduced its borrowing facility from January 2013 to AGM but will be standing for re-election by shareholders.
The borrowing facility will be renewed well in advance of its expiry date, after taking into account the Groups funding needs.
Information about the Boards evaluation is described in the Corporate governance report.
Under the current borrowing facility, the Group has to perform covenant tests for net debt:EBITDA ratio, interest cover and net worth.
Employment policies and equal opportunities No breaches in these covenant tests were reported during the year.
The Group is an inclusive and equal opportunity employer that The Group uses various short and medium term forecasts to monitor relies on HR specialists throughout its worldwide locations to anticipated future compliance and these include stress testing ensure compliance with all applicable laws governing employment assumptions to identify the headroom on the covenant tests.
practices and to advise on all HR policies and practices, including recruitment and selection, training and development, and promotion and retirement.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
