69 69 Leased assets Leases which result in the Group receiving substantially Impairment The carrying amount of non-current assets other than all of the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are treated as deferred tax is compared to the assets recoverable amount at each finance leases.
An asset held under a finance lease is recorded in the balance sheet date where there is an indication of impairment.
For balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of its estimated useful goodwill, assets that have an indefinite useful life and intangible life and the lease term.
Future instalments net of finance charges are assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is included within borrowings.
Minimum lease payments are estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is apportioned between the finance charge, which is allocated to recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its casheach period to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses remaining liability and charged to the income statement and are recognised in the income statement.
reduction of the outstanding liability.
Rental costs arising from operating leases are charged on a straight line basis over the period Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are of the lease.
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash-generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net the other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
A cash generating unit realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price, is the smallest identiable group of assets that generates cash inows less estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
Cost, which that are largely independent of the cash inows from other assets or is based on a weighted average, includes expenditure incurred in groups of assets.
acquiring stock and bringing it to its existing location and condition.
In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost The recoverable amount is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell includes an appropriate share of overheads attributable to and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows manufacture, based on normal operating capacity.
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the Trade receivables Trade receivables are non interest bearing and are risks specic to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely stated at their nominal amount which is the original invoiced amount independent cash inows, the recoverable amount is determined for the less provision made for bad and doubtful receivables.
Estimated cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
irrecoverable amounts are based on the ageing of receivables and historical experience.
Individual trade receivables are written off when Revenue Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value management deem them no longer to be collectable.
of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns, trade discounts and rebates.
Revenue is recognised in the income Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise statement only where there is evidence, usually in the form of a sales cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three agreement, that the significant risks and rewards of ownership have months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and been transferred to the customer and where the collectability of form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included revenue is reasonably assured.
as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash ows.
Finance income and finance costs Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested and changes in the fair value of Borrowings Borrowings are initially measured at cost which is equal financial assets at fair value taken to the income statement.
Interest to the fair value at inception, and are subsequently measured at income is recognised as it accrues, using the effective interest amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs and the unwinding of the discount on provisions, dividends on preference settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised over the terms shares classied as liabilities, foreign currency losses and changes in of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
the fair value of financial assets at fair value taken to the income statement.
All borrowing costs are recognised in the income Trade payables Trade payables are non interest bearing borrowings statement using the effective interest method.
and are initially measured at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
Share based payments The fair value of equity settled share options, cash-settled shadow options and LTIP awards granted to employees is Share capital Incremental costs directly attributable to issue of recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The ordinary shares and share options are recognised as a deduction from fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during equity.
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable awards.
The fair value of the options awards granted is measured using costs, is recognised as a deduction from equity.
Repurchased shares a binomial model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon by the Company are classied as treasury shares and are presented as which the options awards were granted.
The amount recognised as an a deduction from total equity.
employee expense is adjusted to reect the actual number of share options awards that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW
