44 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Board composition Director attendance in 2012 As identied on page 36, the Board comprises two executive directors Audit Nomination Remuneration Chief Executive and Finance Director and five non-executive Board Committee Committee Committee directors Chairman, Senior Independent Director and three other Robert Beeston 8 8 4 4 non-executive directors.
Information about the executive directors David Dutro 8 8 service contracts with the Company is set out in the Report of the Brian Taylorson 8 8 Remuneration Committee.
All non-executive directors are appointed Ian Brindle 8 8 4 4 4 4 4 4 for three year terms that can be renewed by mutual agreement, subject to annual re-election by shareholders, satisfactory Andrew Christie 8 8 4 4 4 4 4 4 performance and meeting independence requirements.
Chris Girling 8 8 4 4 4 4 4 4 Kevin Matthews 8 8 4 4 4 4 4 4 Robert Beestons appointment as Chairman was renewed in September 2012.
Further details about the non-executive directors denotes Chairman of the committee terms of appointment are set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
Changes are expected to be made to the Boards To assist the Board in carrying out its duties, information of an composition this year, as described elsewhere in the Annual Report, appropriate quality is issued in a timely manner ahead of Board and in connection with the Boards succession plans.
However, it is committee meetings, and any unresolved matters concerning Board intended that the current number of executives and non-executives decisions, of which there were none in 2012, would be recorded in will be retained following the refreshment process.
A programme exists to ensure new directors receive appropriate induction tailored to their needs.
All directors With regards to gender diversity, the Board is addressing this as part of have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and its recruitment programme by requiring both long and short lists to may take independent professional advice, as appropriate, at the include a high proportion of female candidates.
However, the Boards expense of the Company.
policy is that appointments will be made on the basis of qualication and a preference for a woman would only be given in the event that On an annual basis, the Board visits one of the Groups overseas two candidates are equally matched in all other respects in relation to locations where it will also hold one of its formal meetings.
Last year the role specication.
Gender diversity below Board level is discussed the annual overseas visit was in East Windsor, New Jersey, at the in the Corporate social responsibility report.
recently commissioned technical facility of the Specialty Products business, which includes management and administrative ofces.
Board independence As well as receiving presentations from the personal care and oileld The Board considers all the non-executive directors to be drilling businesses, the Board toured the new lab facilities to learn independent in character and judgement.
The Board is satisfied about some of the projects the product innovation team is working that each director exercises independent judgement and believes on and participated in an all-employee social event on site attended no individual or group dominates decision making.
The Board considers that these interactions are important in the development of understanding about the Board operation business and the risks and opportunities it faces.
These visits also The Board has a formal programme of activities that are undertaken put into an operational context Board discussions relating to risk at scheduled meetings throughout the year and this is supplemented management and HSE matters, as well as the wider culture and by ad hoc meetings, conference calls or other Board events, as and commitment of the workforce.
Eight formal meetings were held in 2012 and these were attended by all the directors.
The Board is supported in its Board committees activities by Board committees that have been delegated specic A description of how the Board has discharged its responsibilities responsibilities as set out in their terms of reference.
In addition, a through the work of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board allows certain Committees is set out in their respective reports, together decisions to be delegated to the executive directors.
The schedule with information about their composition, meetings and terms of matters reserved to the Board includes: strategic and annual of reference.
operating plans: approval of financial statements, acquisitions and disposals: risk compliance and management programmes, as well as insurance arrangements: major non-recurring projects and major capital expenditures.
The Board reviews the business, financial and operational HSE performance of the Group at each of its formal meetings, including major business initiatives and progress on product innovation.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
