41 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with responsible for preparing a Directors report, Directors remuneration applicable law and regulations.
report and Corporate governance report that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in the corporate and financial information included on the Companys accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK in other jurisdictions.
The directors, all of whom are shown on page 36, confirm that to the Under company law the directors must not approve the financial best of their knowledge: statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the t profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them taken as a whole.
The Directors report includes a fair review of the development and t Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the t For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, t prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties For the parent company financial statements, state whether that they face.
t applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent By order of the Board company financial statements.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless t it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Brian Taylorson records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys Finance Director transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 26 February 2013 financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW
