FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 1.
Corporate information Unincorporated jointly controlled assets EnQuest PLC EnQuest or the Company is a limited liability Oil and gas operations are conducted by the Group as coCompany registered in England and is listed on the London Stock licensees in unincorporated joint ventures with other companies.
Exchange and Stockholm NASDAQ OM: market.
The Groups financial statements reect the relevant proportions of production, capital costs, operating costs and current assets The Groups principal activities are the exploration for, and and liabilities of the joint venture applicable to the Groups extraction and production of hydrocarbons in the UK Continental interests.
The Groups current joint venture interests are detailed Shelf.
During the year the Group acquired interests in an exploration on page 25. licence in Malaysia and pre-qualied as an operator in the Norwegian North Sea.
Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate 2012 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair the Board of Directors on 26 March 2013. value and the amount of any controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the acquirer measures the nonA listing of the principal Group companies is contained in note 28 controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the to these Group financial statements.
proportionate share of the acquirees identiable net assets.
Those petroleum reserves and resources that are able to be reliably valued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Other Basis of preparation potential reserves, resources and rights, for which fair values cannot The Group financial information has been prepared in accordance be reliably determined, are not recognised.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of New standards and interpretations the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012 and applied in The Group has adopted new and revised IFRSs that are relevant accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies to its operations and effective for accounting periods beginning which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the on or after 1 January 2012.
The principal effects of the adoption financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012. of these new and amended standards and interpretations are discussed below: The Group financial information has been prepared on a historical cost basis.
The presentation currency of the Group financial IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Enhanced information is United States dollars and all values in the Group Derecognition Disclosure Requirements financial information are rounded to the nearest thousand The amendment requires additional disclosure about financial US 000 except where otherwise stated.
assets that have been transferred but not derecognised to enable the user of the Groups financial statements to understand the Going concern concept relationship with those assets that have not been derecognised The Directors assessment of going concern concludes that the and their associated liabilities.
In addition, the amendment use of the going concern basis is appropriate and there are no requires disclosures about the entitys continuing involvement in material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt about the derecognised assets to enable the users to evaluate the nature of, ability of the Group to continue as a going concern.
See page 48 and risks associated with, such involvement.
The Group does not in the Directors Report for further details.
have any assets with these characteristics so there has been no effect on the presentation of its financial statements.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Standards issued but not yet effective Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the sole Standards issued and relevant to the Group, but not yet effective right to exercise control over the operations and govern the up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements financial policies generally accompanying a shareholding of are listed below.
This listing is of Standards and Interpretations more than half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect issued, which the Group reasonably expects to be applicable at of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or a future date.
The Group intends to adopt these Standards when convertible are considered when assessing the Groups control.
The Directors do not anticipate that the Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control adoption of these Standards will have a material impact on the is transferred to the Group and are fide-consolidated from the Groups accounts in the period of initial application.
IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income Intercompany profits, transactions and balances are eliminated Amendments to IAS 1 on consolidation.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been The amendments change the grouping of items presented in changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies the statement of comprehensive income.
Items that would be adopted by the Group.
reclassied to profit or loss at a future point in time would be presented separately from items that will never be reclassied.
The revisions become effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
EnQuest PLC 66 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment This improvement claries IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classication and Measurement that major spare parts and servicing equipment that meet the IFRS 9 as issued reects the first phase of the IASBs work denition of property, plant and equipment are not inventory.
on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classication and measurement of financial assets as dened in IAS 39.
The These improvements are effective for annual periods beginning Standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after on or after 1 January 2013.
In subsequent phases, the IASB will address classication and measurement of financial liabilities, hedge Critical accounting estimates and judgements accounting.
The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 will have The management of the Group has to make estimates and an effect on the classication and measurement of the Groups judgements when preparing the financial statements of the financial assets, but will not have an impact on classication Group.
Uncertainties in the estimates and judgements could have and measurements of financial liabilities.
However, the Group an impact on the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and the determined that the effect shall be quantied in conjunction with Groups result.
The most important estimates and judgements in the other phases when issued to present a comprehensive picture.
relation thereto are: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IAS 27 Revised Estimates in oil and gas reserves Separate Financial Statements The business of the Group is the exploration for, development of IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all and production of oil and gas reserves.
Estimates of oil and gas entities including special purpose entities and introduces changes reserves are used in the calculations for impairment tests and which will require management to exercise significant judgement accounting for depletion and decommissioning.
Changes in to determine which entities are controlled, and therefore, are estimates of oil and gas reserves resulting in different future required to be consolidated by a parent.
The consolidation production proles will affect the discounted cash ows used requirements forming part of IAS 27 will be revised and in impairment testing, the anticipated date of decommissioning contained within IFRS 10.
These Standards are effective for and the depletion charges in accordance with the unit-ofannual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 in the production method.
Estimates in impairment of assets excluding goodwill IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements For details of policy see Impairment of assets excluding IFRS 11 establishes a clear principle that is applicable to the goodwill and refer to the further economic assumptions above accounting for all joint arrangements.
The Standard is effective within Estimates in oil and gas reserves.
for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 in the European Union.
The most significant change is that IFRS 11 In calculating the asset fair values the Group has applied an oil price requires the use of the equity method of accounting for interests assumption of US 107.60 per barrel in 2013, US 102.00 per barrel in jointly controlled entities thereby eliminating the proportionate in2014, US 97.80 per barrel in 2015, US 94.30 per barrel in 2016, consolidation method.
US 91.70 per barrel in 2017 thereafter US 90 inated at 2% per annum from 2013 2011: US 119.25 per barrel in 2012, US 112.08 per IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures barrel in 2013, US 104.73 per barrel in 2014, US 98.67 per barrel The Standard will be revised due to the introduction of IFRS 11 in2015, US 97.42 per barrel in 2016 thereafter inated at 2% per and 12.
The Standard describes the application of the equity annum from 2012 and a discounted pre-tax rate of 20.4% method to investments in joint ventures in addition to associates.
The revision will become effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 in the European Union.
Determining whether an acquisition is a business combination or asset purchase IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities The Group analyses the transaction or event by applying the Includes disclosure requirements for interests in subsidiaries, joint denition of a business combination, principally whether inputs, arrangements, associates and unconsolidated structured entities.
processes and outputs exist, including reviewing group strategy, The Standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after control and resources.
Should the acquired business not be 1 January 2014 in the European Union.
viewed as a business combination then it is accounted for as an asset purchase.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement The Standard defines fair value, provides guidance on its Determining the fair value of property, plant and equipment determination and introduces consistent requirements for on business combinations disclosures on fair value measurements.
The Standard does not The Group determines the fair value of property, plant and include requirements on when fair value measurement is required equipment acquired based on the discounted cash ows at the but prescribes how fair value is to be measured if another time of acquisition, from the proven and probable reserves.
The Standard is effective for annual periods assessing the discounted cash ows the estimated future cash beginning on or after 1 January 2013. ows attributable to the asset are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects the market Annual improvements May 2012 assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements This improvement the asset at the time of the acquisition.
In calculating the asset fair claries the difference between voluntary additional comparative value the Group will apply the long term oil price assumption, information and the minimum required comparative information.
escalated for ination and discounted at the pre-tax rate.
The oil Generally the minimum required comparative information is the price assumption will represent managements view of the long previous period.
term oil price at the time of the transaction.
EnQuest PLC 67 Annual Report 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued In the accounts of the Company and its individual subsidiaries, Decommissioning provision transactions in currencies other than a companys functional Amounts used in recording a provision for decommissioning currency are recorded at the prevailing rate of exchange on the are estimates based on current legal and constructive date of the transaction.
At the year end, monetary assets and requirements and current technology and price levels for liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated the removal of facilities and plugging and abandoning of wells.
at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Due to changes in relation to these items, the future actual cash Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical outows in relation to decommissioning are likely to differ in cost in a foreign currency are translated using the rate of exchange practice.
To reect the effects due to changes in legislation, as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary assets and requirements and technology and price levels, the carrying liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated amounts of decommissioning provisions are reviewed on a using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was regular basis.
All foreign exchange gains and losses are taken to profit and loss in the statement of comprehensive income.
The effects of changes in estimates do not give rise to prior year adjustments and are dealt with prospectively.
While the Group Classication and recognition of assets and liabilities uses its best estimates and judgement, actual results could differ Non-current assets and non-current liabilities including provisions from these estimates.
consist, for the most part, solely of amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid more than twelve months after the balance In estimating decommissioning provisions, the Group applies an sheet date.
Current assets and current liabilities consist solely annual ination rate of 2% 2011: 2% and an annual discount rate of amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid within of 5% 2011: 5%.
12 months after the balance sheet date.
Estimates in impairment of goodwill Property plant and eTuipment Determination of whether goodwill has suffered any impairment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating depreciation and any impairment in value.
Cost comprises the units CGU to which goodwill has been allocated.
The present purchase price or construction cost and any costs directly value calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash attributable to making that asset capable of operating as ows expected to arise from the CGU and a suitable discount intended.
The purchase price or construction cost is the rate.
In calculating the present value in use of the CGU, the Group aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other has used forward curve prices for the first five years before consideration given to acquire the asset.
reverting to the Groups long term pricing assumption and discounted at a pre-tax rate of 20.4% 2011: forward curve prices Oil and gas assets are depleted, on a eld-by-eld basis, using for the first four years before reverting to the Groups long term the unit-of-production method based on entitlement to proven pricing assumption and discounted at a pre-tax rate of 21.3%.
and probable reserves, taking account of estimated future development expenditure relating to those reserves.
Taxation The UKs corporation tax legislation is complex.
The Groups Depreciation on other elements of property, plant and equipment operations are subject to a number of specic rules which apply is provided on a straight-line basis at the following rates: to UK North Sea exploration and production.
In addition, the tax Ofce furniture and equipment 25% 100% provision is prepared before the relevant companies have led their UK corporation tax and supplementary charge returns with HMRC and signicantly, before these have been agreed.
Each assets estimated useful life, residual value and method of As a result of these factors the tax provision process necessarily depreciation are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each involves the use of a number of estimates and judgements financial year end.
including those required in calculating the effective tax rate.
In considering the tax on exceptionals, the Company applies No depreciation is charged on land or assets under construction.
the appropriate statutory tax rate to each exceptional item to calculate the relevant tax charge on exceptional items.
The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benets The Group recognises deferred tax assets on unused tax losses are expected from its use or disposal.
The gain or loss arising where it is probable that future taxable profits will be available for from the derecognition of an item of property, plant and utilisation.
This requires management to make judgements and equipment is included in the statement of comprehensive assumptions regarding the amount of deferred tax that can be income when the item is derecognised.
Gains are not classied recognised, as well as the likelihood of future taxable profits.
Foreign currencies Capitalised costs Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups Oil and gas assets are accounted for using the successful efforts entities are measured using the currency of the primary method of accounting.
economic environment in which the entity operates functional currency.
The Group financial statements are presented in United States dollars, the currency which the Group has elected to use as its presentation currency.
EnQuest PLC 68 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Asset swaps Intangible oil and gas assets For exchanges or part exchanges of intangible oil and gas assets Expenditure directly associated with evaluation or appraisal they are accounted for at the carrying value of the asset given up activities is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Such costs include and no gain or loss is recognised.
the costs of acquiring an interest, appraisal well drilling costs, payments to contractors and an appropriate share of directly Changes in unit-of-production factors attributable overheads incurred during the evaluation phase.
Changes in factors which affect unit-of-production calculations For such appraisal activity, which may require drilling of further are dealt with prospectively, not by immediate adjustment of wells, costs continue to be carried as an asset whilst related prior years amounts.
hydrocarbons are considered capable of commercial development.
Such costs are subject to technical, commercial Borrowing costs and management review to confirm the continued intent to Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of develop, or otherwise extract value.
When this is no longer qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial the case, the costs are impaired and any impairment loss period of time to prepare for their intended use, are added to the is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially When exploration licences are relinquished without further ready for their intended use.
All other borrowing costs are development, any previous impairment loss is reversed and recognised as interest payable in the statement of comprehensive the carrying costs are written off through the statement of income in accordance with the effective interest method.
When assets are declared part of a commercial development, related costs are transferred to Impairment of assets excluding goodwill property, plant and equipment oil and gas assets.
All intangible At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying oil and gas assets are assessed for any impairment prior to amounts of its oil and gas assets to assess whether there is transfer and any impairment loss is recognised in the statement an indication that those assets may be impaired.
If any such of comprehensive income.
indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the Oil and gas assets higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value Expenditure relating to development of assets including the in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows construction, installation and completion of infrastructure attributable to the asset are discounted to their present value facilities such as platforms, pipelines and development wells, using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market is capitalised within property, plant and equipment.
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset.
Farm outs outside the exploration and evaluation phase In accounting for a farm out arrangement outside the exploration If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than and evaluation phase, the Group: its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced derecognises the proportion of the asset that it has sold to to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised the farmee: immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
recognises the consideration received or receivable from the farmee, which represents the cash received and or the Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying farmees obligation to fund the capital expenditure in relation amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its to the interest retained by the farmor and or any deferred recoverable amount, but only so that the increased carrying consideration: amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have recognises a gain or loss on the transaction for the difference been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised the asset disposed of.
A gain is only recognised when the value immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
of the consideration can be determined reliably.
If not, then the Group accounts for the consideration received as a reduction Goodwill in the carrying amount of the underlying assets: and Goodwill acquired in a business combination is initially measured tests the retained interests for impairment if the terms of the at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination arrangement indicate that the retained interest may be impaired.
over the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the entity at the date of acquisition.
The consideration receivable on disposal of an item of property, Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any plant and equipment or an intangible asset is recognised initially accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for at its fair value by the Group.
However, if payment for the item is impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in deferred, the consideration received is recognised initially at the circumstances indicate that such carrying value may be impaired.
The difference between the nominal amount of the consideration and the cash price equivalent is For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill acquired is recognised as interest revenue.
Any part of the consideration that allocated to the cash-generating units that are expected to is receivable in the form of cash is treated as a financial asset and benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit or units is accounted for at amortised cost.
to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
EnQuest PLC 69 Annual Report 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss.
of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than Financial assets designated upon initial recognition at FVTPL are the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit and related designated at their initial recognition date and only if the criteria goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised.
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and The Group evaluates its financial assets held for trading, other part of the operation within the unit is disposed of, the goodwill than derivatives, to determine whether the intention to sell them associated with the operation disposed of is included in the in the near term is still appropriate.
Where the Group is unable to carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain trade these financial assets or managements intention to sell or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this them in the foreseeable future changes signicantly, the Group circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the may elect to reclassify these assets.
The reclassication to loans operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating and receivables, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity depends units retained.
on the nature of the asset.
This evaluation does not affect any financial assets designated at FVTPL using the fair value option Non-current assets held for sale at designation.
These instruments cannot be reclassied after Non-current assets classied as held for sale are measured at the initial recognition.
lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Held-to-maturity investments Non-current assets are classied as held for sale if their carrying Non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than payments and xed maturity are classied as held-to-maturity through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for them to maturity.
After initial measurement, held-to-maturity immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for interest method EIR, less impairment.
Amortised cost is recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on classication.
acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR amortisation and losses arising from impairment are Financial assets included in the profit or loss.
Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are classied as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and Available-for-sale financial investments receivables, held-to-maturity investments, available-for-sale Listed and unlisted shares held by the Group that are traded financial investments, or as derivatives designated as hedging in an active market are classied as being available for sale and instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
The Group are stated at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes determines the classication of its financial assets at initial in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income and recognition.
accumulated in the available-for-sale reserve with the exception of impairment losses which are recognised directly in profit or All assets are recognised initially at fair value plus transactions loss.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be costs, except in the case of financial assets recorded at fair value impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the through profit or loss.
available-for-sale reserve is reclassied to profit or loss.
Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery Loans and receivables of assets within a time frame established by regulation These include trade receivables, loans and other receivables that or convention in the market place regular way trades have xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an are recognised on the trade date.
active market and are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income The Groups financial assets include cash and short term is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for deposits, trade and other receivables, loans and other short term receivables when the recognition of interest would receivables, quoted and unquoted financial instruments and be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets Subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their The Group assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is any classication as described below: objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired.
A financial asset is deemed to be impaired where there is objective evidence Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL of impairment that, as a result of one or more events that have Financial assets are classied as at FVTPL when the financial occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, the estimated asset is either held for trading or designated as at FVTPL.
future cash ows of the investment have been affected.
Financial assets are classied as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term.
Derivatives are also classied as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments as dened by IAS 39.
EnQuest PLC 70 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Inventories For listed and unlisted equity investments classied as availableInventories of consumable well supplies are stated at the lower of for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the cost and net realisable value, cost being determined on a first in security below its cost is considered to be objective evidence first out FIFO basis.
Inventories of hydrocarbons are stated at of impairment.
When an available-for-sale financial asset the lower of cost and net realisable value.
is considered to be impaired, cumulative gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are Under over-lift reclassied to profit or loss in the period.
In respect of equity Under or over-lifted positions of hydrocarbons are valued at securities, impairment losses previously recognised in profit or market prices prevailing at the balance sheet date.
An under-lift loss are not reversed through profit or loss.
Any increase in fair of production from a eld is included in current receivables and value subsequent to an impairment loss is recognised in other valued at the reporting date spot price or prevailing contract comprehensive income.
price and an over-lift of production from a eld is included in current liabilities and valued at the reporting date spot price or For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of prevailing contract price.
the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows, Cash and cash eTuivalents discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash at bank, cash in hand, The carrying amount is reduced through use of an allowance outstanding bank overdrafts and highly liquid interest bearing account and the amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
securities with original maturities of three months or less.
Derivatives ETuity Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date Share capital a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently The balance classied as equity share capital includes the total remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the net proceeds both nominal value and share premium on issue resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is of registered share capital of the parent Company.
Share issue designated as a hedging instrument.
costs associated with the issuance of new equity are treated as a direct reduction of proceeds.
The Group categorises derivatives as follows: Merger reserve Fair value hedge Merger reserve represents the difference between the market Changes in the fair value of derivatives that qualify as fair value value of shares issued to effect business combinations less the hedging instruments are recorded in the profit or loss, together nominal value of shares issued.
The merger reserve in the Group with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
financial statements also includes the consolidation adjustments that arise under the application of the pooling of interest method.
Cash ow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives Cash ow hedge reserve that qualify as cash ow hedges are recognised in other For cash ow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly as other portion is recognised immediately in the profit or loss.
Amounts comprehensive income in the cash ow hedge reserve.
Upon accumulated in shareholders equity are transferred to the profit settlement of the hedged item, the change in fair value is or loss in the period when the hedged item will affect the profit transferred to the statement of comprehensive income.
When the hedged item no longer meets the requirements for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, any accumulated gain or Share-based payments reserve loss recognised in shareholders equity is transferred to profit and Equity-settled share-based payment transactions are measured loss when the forecast transaction which was the subject of the at the fair value of the services received, and the corresponding hedge occurs.
increase in equity is recorded directly at the fair value of the services received.
The share-based payments reserve includes Net investment hedge treasury shares.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar manner as cash ow hedges.
The gain or loss Retained earnings accumulated in shareholders equity is transferred to the profit Retained earnings contain the accumulated results attributable to or loss at the time the foreign operation is disposed of.
the shareholders of the parent Company.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Employee benefit trust EnQuest PLC shares held by the Group are deducted from the When derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, changes in fair value are recognised immediately in the profit or loss.
share-based payments reserve and are recognised at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised Trade receivables in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from the sale and the original cost being taken to reserves.
No gain or loss is Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
EnQuest PLC 71 Annual Report 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued The effective interest method is a method of calculating the Provisions amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest Decommissioning expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate Provision for future decommissioning costs is made in full when is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash the Group has an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility or payments through the expected life of the financial liability, an item of plant and to restore the site on which it is located, and or a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the financial when a reasonable estimate of that liability can be made.
amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
An amount equivalent to the discounted initial Leases provision for decommissioning costs is capitalised and amortised The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains over the life of the underlying asset on a unit-of-production basis a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at the over proven and probable reserves.
Any change in the present inception date.
The arrangement is assessed for whether value of the estimated expenditure is reected as an adjustment fullment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a to the provision and the oil and gas asset.
specic asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset or assets, even of that right is not explicitly The unwinding of the discount applied to future specified in an arrangement.
decommissioning provisions is included under finance costs in the statement of comprehensive income.
Finance leases that transfer substantially all the risks and benets incidental to ownership of the leased item to the Group, are Other capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the fair value Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned that an outow of resources will be required to settle the between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation.
Finance charges are recognised in finance costs in the income statement.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the asset.
A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will is derecognised where: obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is the rights to receive cash ows from the asset have expired: depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the the Group retains the right to receive cash ows from the asset, asset and the lease term.
but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through Operating lease payments are recognised as an operating arrangement: or expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash ows from the lease term.
the asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor Revenue retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable but has transferred control of the asset.
economic benets will ow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under Oil and gas revenues comprise the Groups share of sales from the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
the processing or sale of hydrocarbons on an entitlement basis, when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been If an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the passed to the buyer.
same lender, on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modied, such an exchange or Tariff revenue is recognised in the period in which the services modication is treated as a derecognition of the original liability are provided at the agreed contract rates.
and the recognition of a new liability such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees Exceptional items incurred are recognised in the statement of comprehensive As permitted by IAS 1 Revised, Presentation of Financial income.
Statements, certain items are presented separately.
The items that the Group separately presents as exceptional on the face Interest-bearing loans and borrowings of the statement of comprehensive income are those material Interest-bearing loans and borrowings are recognised initially items of income and expense which because of the nature and at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand Borrowing costs are stated at amortised cost using the effective better the elements of financial performance in the year, interest method.
so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better trends in financial performance.
EnQuest PLC 72 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued comprehensive income charge or credit for a period represents Depletion of fair value uplift to property plant and eTuipment the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the on acTuiring strategic investments beginning and end of that period.
IFRS requires that a fair value exercise is undertaken allocating the cost of acquiring controlling interests to the fair value of the No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, acquired identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or Any difference between the cost of acquiring the interest and the non-vesting conditions, which are treated as vesting irrespective fair value of the acquired net assets, which includes identied of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, contingent liabilities, is recognised as acquired goodwill.
The fair provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
value exercise is performed as at the date of acquisition.
Equity awards cancelled are treated as vesting immediately on the date of cancellation, and any expense not recognised for the The Directors have determined that for strategic investments it is award at that date is recognised in the statement of important to identify separately the earnings impact of increased comprehensive income.
depletion arising from the acquisition date fair value uplifts made to property, plant and equipment over their useful economic Taxes lives.
As a result of the nature of fair value assessments in the Income taxes oil and gas industry the value attributed to strategic assets is Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount subjective, based on a wide range of complex variables at a point expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, in time.
The subsequent depletion of the fair value uplifts bears based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively little relationship to current market conditions, operational enacted by the balance sheet date.
Management therefore reports and monitors the business performance of strategic investments Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising before the impact of depletion of fair value uplifts to property, between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying plant and equipment and the uplift is excluded from the business amounts in the Group financial statements.
However, deferred result presented in the Group statement of comprehensive tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an income.
asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither Employee benets accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is measured on Short term employee benets an undiscounted basis using tax rates and laws that have been Short term employee benets such as salaries, social premiums enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and and holiday pay, are expensed when incurred.
are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable Pension obligations profits will be available against which the temporary differences The Groups pension obligations consist of dened contribution can be utilised.
A dened contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays xed contributions.
The Group has no further Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in amount charged to the statement of comprehensive income in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the respect of pension costs reects the contributions payable in the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the year.
Differences between contributions payable during the year temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
and contributions actually paid are shown as either accrued liabilities or prepaid assets in the balance sheet.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax assets and Share-based payment transactions liabilities are offset, only if a legal right exists to offset current tax Employees including Directors of the Group receive assets against current tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, relate to the same taxation authority and that authority permits whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or the Group to make a single net payment.
rights over shares equity-settled transactions of EnQuest PLC.
Production taxes Equity-settled transactions In addition to corporate income taxes, the Groups financial The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is statements also include and disclose production taxes on net measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they income determined from oil and gas production.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service or performance conditions, other than The Group distinguishes between income tax and production conditions linked to the price of the shares of EnQuest PLC tax.
Production tax relates to Petroleum Revenue Tax PRT and market conditions or non-vesting conditions, if applicable.
is accounted for under IAS 12 since it has the characteristics of an income tax as it is imposed under Government authority and the The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised over the amount payable is based on taxable profits of the relevant elds.
period in which the relevant employees become fully entitled Current and deferred PRT is provided on the same basis as to the award the vesting period.
The cumulative expense described above for income taxes.
recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The statement of EnQuest PLC 73 Annual Report 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 3.
Segment information Management have considered the requirements of IFRS 8, in regard to the determination of operating segments, and concluded that the Group has only one significant operating segment being the exploration for, and the extraction and production of hydrocarbons.
All revenue is generated from sales to customers in the United Kingdom.
Details of the Groups revenue components are provided in note 5 a.
All crude oil revenue is received from one major customer, Shell International Trading and Shipping Company Limited and amounted to US 879,307,000 or 99% of total revenue excluding oil hedge gains and losses in the year ended 31 December 2012 2011: US 954,051,000 or 98% of total revenue.
All non-current assets of the Group are located in the United Kingdom except for US 7,136,000 2011: nil located in Malaysia.
Exceptional items and depletion of fair value uplift 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 Recognised in arriving at profit loss from operations before tax and finance income costs : Gain on disposal of asset held for sale 8,644 Impairment of available for sale investments note 14 4,417 12,497 Impairment of oil and gas assets 143,882 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 175,929 Well abandonment 8,194 Depletion of fair value uplift 10,251 16,973 17,379 12,632 Tax 85,174 62,430 102,553 75,062 Gain on disposal of asset held for sale During the prior year the Group disposed of its held for sale interest in the Petisovci project in Slovenia in return for 150,903,958 new ordinary shares in Ascent Resources plc Ascent at a market value of US 18,422,000 creating a gain of US 8,644,000 in the year ended 31 December 2011.
Impairment of available for sale investments Following disposal of the held for sale Petisovci asset, the Group held an investment in Ascent.
The accounting valuation of this shareholding at 31 December 2012 resulted in a non-cash impairment of US 4,417,000 2011: US 12,497,000.
Impairment of oil and gas assets As part of the annual impairment review process, impairment triggers were highlighted which has led to a US 143,882,000 impairment of the Heather and Broom hub refer to note 10.
Gain on disposal of property plant and eTuipment On 12 October 2012, the Company entered into an agreement to farm out 35% of the Alma Galia development to KUFPEC with an effective date of 1 January 2012.
To earn the 35% interest, KUFPEC agreed to pay EnQuest: a a total of US 113,187,000 representing 35% of certain costs incurred between 1 January 2012 and 30 September 2012: b a US 15,000,000 capital contribution: c carry EnQuest from 1 October 2012 up to a cap of US 182,000,000 after which they will revert back to paying their share of the costs 35%.
This carry has been recognised in other financial assets refer note 21 and at 31 December 2012 the carry had reduced to US 95,302,000: and d an additional amount of US 647,000 per month on top of their share of operating costs, for a period of 36 months after the date of first oil production.
The present value of these payments of US 19,300,000 has been recognised as an other financial asset refer to note 21.
At 31 December 2012, the amounts due under a and b above had been received.
A balancing payment was also agreed whereby should the cost of development exceed US 1,055,000,000 then EnQuest would be required to pay 17.5% of costs up to a cap on the cost of development of US 1,153,000,000.
As costs are now expected to exceed the cap EnQuest will be liable to pay these additional costs and so a liability has been recognised for US 17,150,000 in other financial liabilities.
In addition, a reserves protection mechanism was agreed to enable KUFPEC to recoup its investment to the date of first production refer to note 24.
The gain on disposal represents the difference between the total consideration and derecognition of 35% of the development at the date of the agreement.
EnQuest PLC 74 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
Exceptional items and depletion of fair value uplift continued Well abandonment expenses During the year ended 31 December 2011 a credit of US 8,194,000 was recognised following a further review of options to recover funds from the previous Thistle eld owners, relating to partial decommissioning of two wells covered by the Intervening Period and Decommissioning Liability Agreements.
Depletion of fair value uplift Additional depletion arising from the fair value uplift of Petrofac Energy Developments Limiteds PEDL oil and gas assets on acquisition of US 10,251,000 2011: US 16,973,000 is included within cost of sales in the statement of comprehensive income.
Tax In addition to the tax impact of the exceptional items, the tax exceptional amount includes the impact of the 2012 enactment of a restriction on relief of costs incurred in respect of the decommissioning of UK oil and gas assets to 50%.
This increased the tax charge by US 14,279,000, of which US 10,389,000 has been reected as an exceptional item as it relates to the restriction on the opening decommissioning liability.
Revenue and expenses a Revenue Year ended ear ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 Revenue from crude oil sales 879,307 960,401 Gain loss on realisation of financial instruments 53 36,509 Revenue from condensate sales 137 Tariff revenue 10,189 11,672 Other operating revenue 98 410 889,510 935,974 b Cost of sales Year ended ear ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 Cost of operations 228,670 233,008 Tariff and transportation expenses 40,806 43,043 Change in lifting position 24,360 14,631 Inventory movement note 15 3,459 875 Depletion of oil and gas assets note 10 216,780 217,233 458,437 508,790 c Exploration and evaluation expenses Year ended ear ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 Unsuccessful exploration expenditure written off note 12 6,514 Impairment charge note 12 6,583 36,962 Pre-licence costs expensed 10,060 23,157 36,962 d General and administration expenses Year ended ear ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 Staff costs note 5 g 76,861 45,177 Depreciation note 10 1,483 1,784 Other general and administration costs 17,570 12,523 Recharge of costs to operations and joint venture partners 89,264 45,729 6,650 13,755 EnQuest PLC 75 Annual Report 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 5.
Revenue and expenses continued e Other income Year ended ear ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 Other income 2,000 f Other expenses Year ended ear ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 Net foreign exchange losses 8,445 3,344 g Staff costs Year ended ear ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 Wages and salaries 30,069 21,279 Social security costs 4,054 3,137 Dened contribution pension costs 3,155 1,194 Expense of share-based payments note 19 5,163 4,881 Other staff costs 2,682 1,845 Total employee costs 45,123 32,336 Contractor costs 31,738 12,841 76,861 45,177 The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year was 173 2011: 112.
Details of remuneration, pension entitlement and incentive arrangements for each Director are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 59. h Auditors remuneration The following amounts were payable by the Group to its auditors Ernst & oung LLP during the year: Year ended ear ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 Fees payable to the Groups auditors for the audit of the Groups annual accounts 148 136 Fees payable to the Groups auditors and its associates for other services: The audit of the Groups subsidiaries 207 127 Audit related assurance services 67 78 i Tax advisory services 745 913 Other assurance services 5 Corporate finance services 148 1,320 1,254 i Includes costs of US 345,600 2011: US 620,000 relating to tax advice on asset and corporate acquisitions.
These have been capitalised as part of the cost of theasset.
EnQuest PLC 76 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.
Finance costs income Year ended ear ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 Finance costs: Loan interest payable 668 Unwinding of discount on decommissioning provisions note 22 10,148 7,793 Cash ow hedge re-price premium 335 5,867 Fair value loss on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss note 21 2,147 Finance charges payable under finance leases 3 Other financial expenses 8,307 4,938 21,608 18,598 Less: amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets 397 21,211 18,598 Finance income: Bank interest receivable 686 1,808 Fair value gain on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss note 21 871 2,147 Unwinding of financial asset 479 Other financial income 125 2,161 3,955 7.
Income tax a Income tax The major components of income tax expense are as follows: Year ended ear ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 Group statement of comprehensive income Current income tax Current income tax charge 4,860 860 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 1,204 807 Deferred income tax Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 50,335 237,034 Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 10,785 68,085 Adjustments in respect of deferred income tax of previous years 23,593 4,956 Income tax expense reported in statement of comprehensive income 41,183 301,830 b Reconciliation of total income tax charge A reconciliation between the income tax charge and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the UK statutory tax rate is as follows: Year ended ear ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 profit before tax 403,401 362,821 Statutory rate of corporation tax in the UK of 62% 2011: 59.3% 250,109 215,168 Supplementary corporation tax non-deductible expenditure 6,552 888 Non-deductible expenditure 3,310 3,195 Deductible lease expenditure 76,951 Non-taxable gain on sale of assets 109,076 Petroleum revenue tax net of income tax benefit 19,081 14,465 North Sea tax reliefs 29,894 6,341 Tax in respect of non-ring fence trade 10,837 1,596 Deferred tax rate increase on North Sea oil and gas activities 14,675 78,149 Adjustments in respect of prior years 24,797 4,149 Overseas tax rate differences 464 1,141 Other differences 525 At the effective income tax rate of 10% 2011: 83% 41,183 301,830 EnQuest PLC 77 Annual Report 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 7.
Income tax continued c Deferred income tax Deferred income tax relates to the following: Group balance sheet Group profit and loss account 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 US$000 US 000 Deferred tax liability Accelerated capital allowances 1,050,189 775,486 274,703 222,657 Other temporary differences 99,955 46,345 53,610 39,999 1,150,144 821,831 Deferred tax asset Losses 359,406 95,558 253,847 107,284 Decommissioning liability 116,476 112,368 4,108 42,314 Other temporary differences 65,175 36,512 32,831 27,463 541,057 244,438 Deferred tax expense 37,527 300,163 Deferred tax liabilities, net 609,087 577,393 Reected in balance sheet as follows: Deferred tax assets 23,143 12,617 Deferred tax liabilities 632,230 590,010 Deferred tax liabilities, net 609,087 577,393 In addition to the amount charged to the profit and loss, a deferred tax charge of US 4,167,000 2011: credit US 4,242,000 in respect of cash ow hedges note 21, is recognised as other comprehensive income.
d Tax losses Deferred income tax assets are recognised for the carry-forward of unused tax losses and unused tax credits to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the unused tax losses credits can be utilised.
The Group has unused UK mainstream corporation tax losses of US 2,662,000 2011: US nil for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised at the balance sheet date due to the uncertainty of recovery of these losses.
The Group also has pre-trading ring fence expenditure of US 54,529,000 which has arisen following the acquisition of Canamens Energy North Sea Limited in early 2012 for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
The expenditure is likely to become deductible and available to the Group for UK ring fence taxation purposes during 2013.
The Group has unused overseas tax losses in Canada of approximately CAD 17,106,000 2011: CAD 76,577,000 and in Holland of 1,070,000 2011: 920,000 for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised at the balance sheet date.
The tax losses in Canada have expiry periods of between 7 and 20 years, none of which expire in 2013.
The tax losses in Canada were adjusted in the 2010 submitted returns to reect the change in control of Stratic, resulting in a reduction in losses of CAD 47,554,000.
Tax losses in Holland can be carried forward for a period up to nine years and are likely to expire in 2013. e Change in legislation The Finance Act 2012 enacted a restriction on relief of costs incurred in respect of decommissioning to 50%, compared to the North Sea ring fence rate of 62% of the relief.
The impact of the decommissioning relief restriction in 2012 is an increase in the tax charge of US 14,279,000, of which US 10,389,000 relates to the restriction of the opening decommissioning balances.
A change in the tax rate for non-ring fence companies was also enacted in the Finance Act 2012, reducing the corporation tax rate from 25% to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013.
The impact of the change in tax rate is an increase in the tax charge of US 396,000.
In 2011, the enactment of the increase in the UK supplementary corporation tax rate on oil and gas activities in the North Sea increased the deferred tax charge in the income statement by US 78,149,000, of which US 68,086,000 relates to the revaluation of the opening deferred tax corporation tax balance.
EnQuest PLC 78 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8.
Earnings per share The calculation of earnings per share is based on the profit after tax and on the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated as follows: Weighted average number profit after tax ofshares Earnings per share ear ended 31 December ear ended 31 December ear ended 31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 Million Million US$ US Basic 362,218 60,991 784.1 801.7 0.462 0.076 Dilutive potential of Ordinary shares granted under share-based incentive schemes 13.3 2.9 Diluted 362,218 60,991 797.4 804.6 0.454 0.076 Adjusted excluding exceptional items 259,665 136,053 784.1 801.7 0.331 0.170 9.
Dividends paid and proposed The Company paid no dividends during the year ended 31 December 2012 2011: nil.
At 31 December 2012 there are no proposed dividends.
Consideration included reimbursement of past costs US 113,187,000, a capital contribution US 15,000,000, a cost carry up to a cap of US 182,000,000 and future costs payable after the date of first oil production US 23,292,000.
The cost of the 35% share of assets disposed was US 143,054,000 including the decommissioning asset.
During the year ended 31 December 2012 there was a US 143,882,000 impairment of the Heather and Broom hub following a delay in phasing of production, particularly to allow the drilling of the West Fault Block well at Thistle in 2013 and an increase in estimated capital expenditure associated with the eld life extension programme.
The Heather and Broom hub inherited a high net book value of US 423,000,000, reecting the fair value uplift when Lundin acquired the Heather and Broom assets prior to the formation ofEnQuest.
Refer to note 11 in respect of key assumptions used in value in use calculations.
EnQuest PLC 79 Annual Report 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 10.
Property plant and eTuipment continued At 31 December 2012, due to the recognition of 2P reserves for the Kraken eld, US 61,994,000 of costs in relation to Kraken were reclassed from intangible to property, plant and equipment.
Also during the year, prior year pre-development costs in relation to Crawford and Porter US 30,773,000 were transferred to intangible assets as a result of a decision to review development options.
The amount of borrowing costs capitalised during the year ended 31 December 2012 was US 397,000 and relate to the Alma Galia development 2011: nil.
The weighted average rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation is 0.84% 2011: nil.
The additions during the year and the resultant net book value of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts at 31 December 2012 was US 141,000 2011: nil.
The net book value at 31 December 2012 includes US 535,827,000 2011: US 107,433,000 of pre-development assets and development assets under construction which are not being depreciated.
Goodwill A summary of the movement in goodwill is presented below: 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 At 1 January and 31 December 107,760 107,760 The balance represents goodwill acquired on the acquisition of Stratic and PEDL in 2010.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to a single cash-generating unit CGU, the UKCS, being the Groups only significant operating segment and therefore the lowest level that goodwill is reviewed by the Board.
Impairment testing of goodwill In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, goodwill was reviewed for impairment at the year end.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU, including goodwill, is compared with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of the CGU has been determined on a value in use basis using a discounted cash ow model comprising asset-by-asset life of eld projections.
The pre-tax discount rate used is derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital and is reassessed each year.
Risks specic to assets within the CGU are reected within the cash ow forecasts.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations The key assumptions required for the calculation of value in use of the CGU are: oil prices production volumes discount rates Oil prices are based on forward price curves for the first five years before reverting to the Groups long term pricing assumptions.
For the purposes of calculating value in use, management has applied an oil price assumption of US 107.60 per barrel in 2013, US 102.00 per barrel in 2014, US 97.80 per barrel in 2015, US 94.30 per barrel in 2016, US 91.70 per barrel in 2017 thereafter US 90 inated at 2% per annum from 2013.
In 2011, oil prices were based on US 119.25 per barrel in 2012, US 112.08 per barrel in 2013, US 104.73 per barrel in 2014, US 98.67 per barrel in 2015, US 97.42 per barrel in 2016 thereafter US 90 inated at 2% per annum from 2012.
Production volumes are based on life of eld production proles for each asset within the CGU.
The production volumes used in the value in use calculations were taken from the report prepared by the Groups independent reserve assessment experts.
The discount rate reects managements estimate of the Groups weighted average cost of capital WACC.
The WACC takes into account both debt and equity.
The cost of equity is derived from the expected return on investment by the Groups investors.
The cost of debt is based on its interest-bearing borrowings.
Segment risk is incorporated by applying a beta factor based on publicly available market data.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the Groups pre-tax cash ow projections is 20.4% 2011: 21.3%.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions There are reasonably possible changes in key assumptions which could erode the estimated amount by which the calculated value in use exceeds the carrying value of the CGU.
These are discussed below: oil price: management has considered the possibility of lower oil prices in the future.
Revenue for the Groups future oil production is directly linked to the market price of Brent blend oil.
A fall in the price for Brent blend would directly impact the Groups revenue and potentially the economic life of assets in the CGU.
It is estimated that the long term price of oil that would cause the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount of the CGU would be US 71.75 per barrel, escalated at 2% per annum 2011:US 80.71 per barrel, escalated at 2% per annum.
production volumes: estimated production volumes were taken from the report prepared by the Groups independent reserve assessment experts.
On a weighted average basis, production would need to fall by 18.4% 2011: 24% to cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying amount of the CGU.
EnQuest PLC 80 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
Intangible oil and gas assets US 000 Cost At 1 January 2011 108,124 Additions 64,165 Write-off of relinquished licences previously impaired 34,127 Reclassied to property, plant and equipment note 10 11,204 Reclassied to asset held for sale note 13 1,254 At 31 December 2011 125,704 Additions 77,120 Acquisition of interests in licences 39,103 Write-off of relinquished licences previously impaired 4,754 Unsuccessful exploration expenditure written off 6,514 Reclassied to property, plant and equipment note 10 31,221 Reclassied from asset held for sale note 13 1,254 At 31 December 2012 200,692 Provision for impairment At 1 January 2011 98,522 Impairment charge for the year 36,962 Write-off of relinquished licences previously impaired 34,127 At 31 December 2011 101,357 Impairment charge for the year 6,583 Write-off of relinquished licences previously impaired 4,754 At 31 December 2012 103,186 Net carrying amount At 31 December 2012 97,506 At 31 December 2011 24,347 At 1 January 2011 9,602 During the year ended 31 December 2012, the Group acquired a 60% interest in the Kraken oil discovery in the UKCS in various tranches.
The initial 20% interest was acquired through the acquisition of two entities from Canamens Limited for US 36,103,000.
These costs are included within acquisition of interests in licences.
The remaining 40% is by way of development carries.
In addition costs of US 3,000,000 to acquire interests in an exploration licence in Malaysia are included within acquisition of interests in licences.
During the year ended 31 December 2012, US 4,754,000 of costs relating to relinquished licences previously impaired were written off 2011: US 34,127,000.
The impairment charge for the year ended 31 December 2012 includes costs of the Tryfan exploration well which proved to be uncommercial.
During the year ended 31 December 2011 costs of US 36,962,000 were impaired relating to dryhole wells or uneconomic assessment on evaluation of the assets.
Assets held for sale US 000 At 1 January 2011 9,778 Disposals 9,778 Reclassied from intangible xed assets note 12 1,254 At 31 December 2011 1,254 Reclassied to intangible xed assets note 12 1,254 At 31 December 2012 On 11 February 2011, the Group disposed of its held for sale interest in the Petisovci project Petisovci in Slovenia in return for 150,903,958 new ordinary shares in Ascent at a market value of US 18,422,000, creating a gain of US 8,644,000.
During 2011, the FQuad Dutch assets were reclassied as held for sale as they were subject to a swap arrangement whereby these were to be transferred to Sterling Resources Limited for a 50% share in the Cairngorm licence Block 16 3d.
This arrangement was nalised in December 2012 and therefore the costs have been reclassied to intangible xed assets.
EnQuest PLC 81 Annual Report 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 14.
Investments US 000 Cost At 1 January 2011 Additions 19,231 At 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 19,231 Provision for impairment At 1 January 2011 Impairment charge for the year 12,497 At 31 December 2011 12,497 Impairment charge for the year 4,417 At 31 December 2012 16,914 Net carrying amount At 31 December 2012 2,317 At 31 December 2011 6,734 At 1 January 2011 The Group acquired an investment of 150,903,958 new ordinary shares in Ascent at a market value of US 18,422,000 on the disposal of the held for sale Petisovci asset on 11 February 2011 and a further 10,000,000 shares were purchased during 2011 increasing the value of the investment to US 19,231,000.
The accounting valuation of the Groups shareholding based on the movement in the quoted share price of Ascent has resulted in an additional non-cash impairment of US 4,417,000 in the year ended 31 December 2012 2011: US 12,497,000.
Trade and other receivables 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 Trade receivables 94,818 75,031 Joint venture receivables 100,918 33,411 Other receivables 24,645 9,313 220,381 117,755 Prepayments and accrued income 19,341 8,799 239,722 126,554 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 15 to 30 day terms.
Trade receivables are reported net of any provisions for impairment.
As at 31 December 2012 no impairment provision for trade receivables was necessary 2011: nil.
Joint venture receivables relate to billings to joint venture partners and were not impaired.
The amount included at 31 December 2012 in respect of amounts due from KUFPEC in respect of the carry was US 53,261,000.
As at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 no other receivables were determined to be impaired.
The carrying value of the Groups trade, joint venture and other receivables as stated above is considered to be a reasonable approximation to their fair value.
Cash and cash eTuivalents The carrying value of the Groups cash and cash equivalents is considered to be a reasonable approximation to their fair value.
Included within the cash balance at 31 December 2012 is restricted cash of US 14,880,000 2011: nil relating to cash held under Performance Guarantee Agreements with suppliers.
EnQuest PLC 82 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Share capital The share capital of the Company as at 31 December was as follows: 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 Authorised, issued and fully paid 802,660,757 2011: 802,660,757 Ordinary shares of 0.05 each 61,249 61,249 Share premium 52,184 52,184 113,433 113,433 The share capital comprises only one class of Ordinary share.
Each Ordinary share carries an equal voting right and right to a dividend.
On 14 April 2011, 3,197,852 Ordinary shares of 0.05 each were issued at par and allotted to the Companys Employee benefit Trust to satisfy awards made under the Companys share-based incentive schemes.
There were no new issues of shares during 2012.
At 31 December 2012 there were 22,966,471 shares held by the Employee benefit Trust 2011: 18,139,465 due to the purchase of shares to satisfy awards made under the Companys share-based incentive schemes net of shares used during the year.
Share-based payment plans On 18 March 2010, the Directors of the Company approved three share schemes for the benefit of Directors and employees, being a Deferred Bonus Share Plan, a Restricted Share Plan and a Performance Share Plan.
During 2012 a Sharesave Plan was approved by the Company.
The grant values for all schemes are based on the average share price from the three days preceding date of grant.
Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP Selected employees are eligible to participate under this scheme.
Participants may be invited to elect or in some cases, be required, to receive a proportion of any bonus in Ordinary shares of EnQuest Invested Awards.
Following such award, EnQuest will generally grant the participant an additional award over a number of shares bearing a specified ratio to the number of his or her invested shares Matching Shares.
The awards granted in 2012 and 2011 will vest 33% on the first anniversary of the date of grant, a further 33% after year two and the final 34% on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The awards granted in 2010 will vest 25% on the second anniversary of the date of grant, a further 25% after year three and the final 50% on the fourth anniversary of the date of grant.
The invested awards are fully recognised as an expense in the period to which the bonuses relate.
The costs relating to the matching shares are recognised over the vesting period and the fair values of the equity-settled matching shares granted to employees are based on quoted market prices adjusted for the trued up percentage vesting rate of the plan.
Details of the fair values and assumed vesting rates of the DBSP scheme are shown below: Weighted average fair value per Trued up share vesting rate 2012 awards 124p 86% 2011 awards 137p 84% 2010 awards 101p 98% The following shows the movement in the number of share awards held under the DBSP scheme outstanding and not exercisable: 2012 2011 Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 526,080 390,730 Granted during the year 783,410 351,444 Vested during the year 230,743 94,292 Forfeited during the year 60,390 121,802 Outstanding at 31 December 1,018,357 526,080 Includes invested and matching shares.
There were no share awards exercisable at either 31 December 2012 or 2011.
The weighted average contractual life for the share awards outstanding as at 31 December 2012 was 1.1 years 2011: 1.1 years.
The charge recognised in the 2012 statement of comprehensive income in relation to matching share awards amounted to US 701,000 2011: US 308,000.
EnQuest PLC 83 Annual Report 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 19.
Share-based payment plans continued Restricted Share Plan RSP Under the Restricted Share Plan scheme, employees are granted shares in EnQuest over a discretionary vesting period, which may or may not be, at the direction of the Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors of EnQuest, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Awards made in 2010, 2011 and 2012 under the RSP will vest over periods between one and four years.
At present there are no performance conditions applying to this scheme nor is there currently any intention to introduce them in the future.
The fair value of the awards granted under the plan at various grant dates during the year are based on quoted market prices adjusted for an assumed vesting rate over the relevant vesting period.
Details of the fair values and assumed vesting rate of the RSP scheme are shown below: Weighted average fair value per Trued up share vesting rate 2012 awards 123p 95% 2011 awards 119p 95% 2010 awards 104p 98% The following table shows the movement in the number of share awards held under the RSP scheme outstanding but not exercisable: 2012 2011 Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 8,036,955 7,926,411 Granted during the year 686,000 829,845 Vested during the year 1,782,748 298,515 Forfeited during the year 94,172 420,786 Outstanding at 31 December 6,846,035 8,036,955 Exercisable at 31 December 1,312,156 268,177 The weighted average contractual life for the share awards outstanding as at 31 December 2012 was 1.2 years 2011: 1.7 years.
The charge recognised in the year ended 31 December 2012 amounted to US 2,572,000 2011: US 3,767,000.
Performance Share Plan PSP Under the Performance Share Plan, the shares vest subject to performance conditions.
The PSP share awards granted in 2011 and 2012 had three sets of performance conditions associated with them.
One third of the award relates to Total Shareholder Return TSR against a comparator group of 36 oil and gas companies listed on the FTSE 350, AIM Top 100 and Stockholm NASDAQ OM:: one third relates to production growth per share, and one third relates to reserves growth per share, over the three year performance period.
Awards will vest on the 3rd anniversary.
Details of the fair values and assumed vesting rate of the PSP scheme are shown below: Weighted average fair value per Trued up share vesting rate 2012 awards 124p 97% 2011 awards 137p 97% The following table shows the movement in the number of share awards held under the PSP scheme outstanding but not exercisable: 2012 2011 Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 1,668,522 Granted during the year 3,021,117 1,722,022 Forfeited during the year 87,000 53,500 Outstanding at 31 December 4,602,639 1,668,522 There were no share awards exercisable at either 31 December 2012 or 2011.
The weighted average contractual life for the share awards outstanding as at 31 December 2012 was 1.9 years 2011: 2.2 years.
EnQuest PLC 84 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
Share-based payment plans continued The charge recognised in the year ended 31 December 2012 amounted to US 1,802,000 2011: US 806,000.
Sharesave Plan The Group operates an approved savings related share option scheme.
The Plan is based on eligible employees being granted options and their agreement to opening a sharesave account with a nominated savings carrier and to save over a specified period, either 3 or 5 years.
The right to exercise the option is at the employees discretion at the end of the period previously chosen, for a period of six months.
Details of the fair values and assumed vesting rates of the Sharesave plan are shown below: Weighted average fair value per Trued up share vesting rate 2012 awards 20p 93% The following shows the movement in the number of share options held under the Sharesave plan outstanding but not exercisable: 2012 2011 Number Number Granted during the year 746,880 Forfeited during the year 49,500 Outstanding at 31 December 697,380 There were no share options exercisable at either 31 December 2012 or 2011.
The weighted average contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2012 was 2.9 years 2011: nil.
The charge recognised in the 2012 statement of comprehensive income amounted to US 88,000 2011: nil.
The Company has recognised a total charge of US 5,163,000 2011:US 4,881,000 in the statement of comprehensive income during the year, relating to the above employee share-based schemes.
Loans and borrowings Revolving credit facility At 31 December 2011, the Group had US 156,250,000 of undrawn committed borrowing facilities available which expired in March 2012.
On 6 March 2012, a new US 900,000,000 Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement with Lloyds TSB Bank, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Crpdit Agricole CIB, NICB Bank and Royal Bank of Scotland was established.
The new facility comprises a committed amount of US 525,000,000 for three years subject to reserves, extendable to four years at the option of the Group provided conditions are met and a further year with the consent of the lenders.
In addition, US 375,000,000 is available primarily for investment opportunities also with the lenders consent.
The Letters of Credit LoC of US 123,750,000 under the old facility have been rolled into the new facility.
The drawdown of US 34,600,000 at 31 December 2012 was subsequently repaid.
Interest on the revolving credit facility is payable at US LIBOR plus a margin of 2.25% to 3.25%, dependent on specified covenant ratios.
A facility non-utilisation commitment fee is payable at 40% of the interest margin.
At 31 December 2012, US 34,600,000 was drawndown under the Groups facility agreement 2011: nil and LoC utilisation was US 123,750,000 2011: US 123,750,000.
The Group considers there to be no material difference between the fair values of the interest bearing loans and borrowings and the carrying amounts in the balance sheet.
EnQuest PLC 85 Annual Report 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 21.
Other financial assets and financial liabilities 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 Financial instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income Current liabilities Cash ow hedges: Forward foreign currency contracts 121 6,507 Non-current liabilities Cash ow hedges: Forward foreign currency contracts 335 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Current assets Derivatives not designated as hedges: Commodity forward contracts 1,170 2,510 Current liabilities Derivatives not designated as hedges: Commodity forward contracts 299 363 Loans and receivables Current assets Other receivable 95,302 Non-current assets Other receivable 19,447 Other financial liabilities at amortised cost Current liabilities Other liability 17,150 Total current assets 96,472 2,510 Total non-current assets 19,447 Total assets 115,919 2,510 Total current liabilities 17,570 6,870 Total non-current liabilities 335 Total liabilities 17,570 7,205 The fair value measurements of the financial instruments held by the Group have been derived based on observable market inputs as categorised within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 7.
Commodity forward contracts In November 2011, the Group entered into five separate put and call options in order to hedge the changes in future cash ows from the sale of oil production for approximately 3,000,000 barrels of oil in 2012 for accounting purposes.
These instruments were deemed to be ineffective for hedging purposes and are therefore designated as at fair value through profit and loss FVTPL.
These derivative instruments had fully unwound by the end of December 2012 and therefore had no fair value 2011: US 2,147,000.
The gains of US 2,147,000 recognised in 2011 were reversed during 2012 and are included within other finance costs.
In November 2012, the Group entered into three separate put and call options in order to hedge the changes in future cash ows from the sale of oil production for approximately 1,000,000 barrels of oil in the first quarter of 2013 for accounting purposes.
The derivative instruments had a net asset fair value of US 871,000 2011: nil and gains of US 871,000 2011: nil were taken into profit and loss during the year and are included within other finance income.
Forward foreign currency contracts During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group had also entered into 11 forward currency contracts to partially hedge the Groups exposure to uctuations in foreign currencies, namely Sterling and Euro.
These contracts qualied for hedge accounting.
At 31 December 2012 only three of the original contracts were in place with a total fair value liability of US 121,000 2011: US 6,842,000.
The movement through other comprehensive income during the year is an unrealised gain of US 2,554,000 2011: US 2,600,000 loss net of a deferred tax credit of US 4,167,000 2011: US 4,242,000 charge.
The impact in profit or loss during the year was an expense of US 2,903,000 2011: US 113,000 in respect of these contracts.
EnQuest PLC 86 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21.
Other financial assets and financial liabilities continued Other receivable As disclosed in note 4, as part of the farm out to KUFPEC of 35% of the Alma Galia development, KUFPEC will carry EnQuest up to a cap of US 182,000,000 and agreed to pay EnQuest a total of US 23,292,000 after production commences over a period of 36 months.
Receivables have been recognised for both these: The carry element is being unwound over the period of the carry and at 31 December 2012 the remaining balance was US 95,302,000: A receivable has been recognised for the additional payments at its fair value of US 19,300,000.
The unwinding of the discount on these future payments will be included within finance income in the income statement.
Other liability Under the KUFPEC agreement a balancing payment was also agreed whereby should the cost of development exceed US 1,055,000,000 then EnQuest would be required to pay 17.5% of costs up to a cap on the cost of development of US 1,153,000,000.
As costs are now expected to exceed the cap EnQuest will be liable to pay these additional costs, resulting in the recognition of a US 17,150,000 liability.
Provisions Decommissioning US 000 At 1 January 2011 140,108 Additions during the year 33,821 Changes in estimates 16,901 Unwinding of discount 7,793 Utilisation 17,386 At 31 December 2011 181,237 Additions during the year 37,609 Farm in to West Don 14,569 Farm out of Alma Galia development 7,054 Changes in estimates 10,061 Unwinding of discount 10,148 Utilisation 13,618 At 31 December 2012 232,952 Provision for decommissioning The Group makes full provision for the future costs of decommissioning its oil production facilities and pipelines on a discounted basis.
With respect to the Heather eld, the decommissioning provision is based on the Groups contractual obligation of 37.5% of the decommissioning liability rather than the Groups equity interest in the eld.
The provision represents the present value of decommissioning costs which are expected to be incurred up to 2030 assuming no further development of the Groups assets.
The liability is discounted at a rate of 5.0% 2011: 5.0%.
The unwinding of the discount is classied as a finance cost note 6.
These provisions have been created based on internal and third party estimates.
Assumptions based on the current economic environment have been made which management believe are a reasonable basis upon which to estimate the future liability.
These estimates are reviewed regularly to take into account any material changes to the assumptions.
However, actual decommissioning costs will ultimately depend upon future market prices for the necessary decommissioning works required which will reect market conditions at the relevant time.
Furthermore, the timing of decommissioning liabilities is likely to depend on the dates when the elds cease to be economically viable.
This in turn depends on future oil prices which are inherently uncertain.
Trade and other payables 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 Trade payables 81,885 26,215 Accrued expenses 232,877 192,494 Other payables 14,904 15,628 329,666 234,337 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on terms of between 10 and 30 days.
Certain trade and other payables will be settled in currencies other than the reporting currency of the Group, mainly in Sterling.
Accrued expenses include accruals for capital and operating expenditure in relation to the oil and gas assets.
The carrying value of the Groups trade and other payables as stated above is considered to be a reasonable approximation to their fair value.
EnQuest PLC 87 Annual Report 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 24.
Commitments and contingencies Commitments i Operating lease commitments The Group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for ofce premises.
These leases have remaining non-cancellable lease terms of between one and ten years.
The future minimum rental commitments under these non-cancellable leases are as follows: 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 Not later than one year 2,025 1,372 After one year but not more than five years 4,781 2,170 Over five years 2,772 9,578 3,542 Lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense during the year amounted to US 2,324,819 2011: US 2,066,054.
Under the Dons Northern Producer Agreement a minimum notice period of twelve months exists whereby the Group expects the minimum commitment under this agreement to be approximately US 46,000,000 2011: US 47,000,000. ii Finance lease commitments The Group had the following obligations under finance leases as at the balance sheet date: 2012 2012 2011 2011 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments US$000 US$000 US 000 US 000 Due in less than one year 37 34 Due in more than one year but not more than five years 110 107 147 141 Less future nancing charges 6 141 141 The leases are xed rate leases with an effective borrowing rate of 2.37% and have an average remaining life of three years.
iii Capital commitments At 31 December 2012, the Group had capital commitments excluding the above lease commitments amounting to US 203,620,000 2011: US 310,408,000.
Contingencies At 31 December 2012, potential future commitments included US 45,000,000 contingent consideration due to Canamens Limited after acquisition of two of its companies, US 5,000,000 in respect of the Groups interest in Block 9 2b in the UK North Sea Kraken and a further potential commitment of 7,000,000 US 11,200,000 is due in respect of back-in payments associated with the sole risk drilling undertaken by the previous operator on the Kraken 9 2b-04 appraisal well and 9 2b-04z exploration sidetrack.
During 2012 EnQuest acquired interests in Kraken from Nautical Petroleum plc 25% and First Oil plc 15%.
The amounts payable are US 150,000,000 to US 240,000,000 and US 90,000,000 to US 144,000,000 respectively, linked to independent reserves determination between 100Mboe and 166Mboe.
All will become payable upon approval of the Kraken Field Development Plan FDP by the Department of Energy and Climate Change.
The FDP is expected to be submitted in the first half of 2013.
As part of the KUFPEC farm in agreement, a reserves protection mechanism was agreed with KUFPEC to enable KUFPEC to recoup its investment to the date of first production.
If on 1 January 2017, KUFPECs costs to first production have not been recovered or deemed to have been recovered, EnQuest will pay to KUFPEC an additional 20% share of net revenue giving them 55% in total.
This additional revenue is to be paid from January 2017 until the actual net revenue or the deemed net revenue equals or exceeds the costs to first oil.
In addition, there is contingent consideration of US 20,000,000 after the acquisition of Nio Sabah Limited which will be determined based on 2P reserves associated with an approved FDP on Blocks SB307 and SB308 in Malaysia.
Anexploration appraisal well is expected to be drilled in the area in the second half of 2013.
There is also deferred consideration of US 3,000,000 dependent on FDP approval in relation to the 20% interest in Kildrummy acquired from ENI UK Limited during the year.
EnQuest PLC 88 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.
Related party transactions The Group financial statements include the financial statements of EnQuest PLC and its subsidiaries.
A list of the Groups principal subsidiaries is contained in note 28 to these Group financial statements.
Balances and transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
All sales to and purchases from related parties are made at normal market prices and the pricing policies and terms of these transactions are approved by the Groups management.
There have been no transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group during the year ended 31 December 2012 2011: nil.
Compensation of key management personnel The following table details remuneration of key management personnel of the Group comprising Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company and other senior personnel: 2012 2011 US 000 US 000 Short term employee benets 4,306 3,849 Share-based payments 4,086 2,850 Post employment pension benets 30 29 8,422 6,728 26.
Risk management and financial instruments Risk management objectives and policies The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities comprise trade and other receivables, cash and short term deposits, interestbearing loans, borrowings and finance leases, derivative financial instruments and trade and other payables.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to manage short term cash ow and raise finance for the Groups capital expenditure programme.
The Groups activities expose it to various financial risks particularly associated with uctuations in oil price, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Management reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.
Also presented below is a sensitivity analysis to indicate sensitivity to changes in market variables on the Groups financial instruments and to show the impact on profit and shareholders equity, where applicable.
The sensitivity has been prepared for periods ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 using the amounts of debt and other financial assets and liabilities held at those reporting dates.
Commodity price risk oil prices The Group is exposed to the impact of changes in Brent oil prices on its revenues and profits generated from sales of crude oil.
During 2010, the Board of EnQuest approved a policy to hedge up to a maximum of 50% of annual oil production.
In November 2011, the Group entered into five separate put and call options to hedge approximately 3,000,000 barrels of oil in 2012.
During November 2012, the Company entered into a further three put and call options, to hedge approximately 1,000,000 barrels of oil in the first quarter of 2013.
Since the year end the Group has entered into further put and call options covering 3,600,000 barrels of oil production for 2013.
The following table summarises the impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and total equity of a reasonably possible change in the Brent oil price, with all other variables held constant: Pre-tax profit Total equity US 10 Bbl US 10 Bbl US 10 Bbl US 10 Bbl increase decrease increase decrease US 000 US 000 US 000 US 000 31 December 2012 76,337 76,323 29,008 29,003 31 December 2011 70,836 67,500 26,918 25,650 Foreign currency risk The Group has transactional currency exposures.
Such exposure arises from sales or purchases in currencies other than the Groups functional currency.
The Group manages this risk by converting United States dollar receipts at spot rates periodically and as required for payments in other currencies.
Approximately 1% 2011: 2% of the Groups sales and 89% 2011: 89% of costs are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group had entered into 11 forward currency contracts to partially hedge the Groups exposure to uctuations in foreign currencies, namely Sterling and Euro.
At 31 December 2012 only three of these contracts remained and are due to mature in 2013.
These contracts qualify for hedge accounting and have been disclosed within note 21.
EnQuest PLC 89 Annual Report 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 26.
Risk management and financial instruments continued The following table summarises the impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and equity due to change in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities of a reasonably possible change in the United States dollar to GBP Sterling exchange rate: Pre-tax profit Total equity 10% US dollar 10% US dollar 10% US dollar 10% US dollar rate increase rate decrease rate increase rate decrease US 000 US 000 US 000 US 000 31 December 2012 24,918 24,918 9,234 9,234 31 December 2011 25,056 25,056 1,438 1,438 Credit risk The Group trades only with recognised, international oil and gas operators and at 31 December 2012 there were no trade receivables past due 2011: nil, and US 4,078,000 of joint venture receivables past due but not impaired 2011: US 705,000.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with appropriate follow-up action taken where necessary.
2012 2011 Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables US$000 US 000 Less than 30 days 143 7 30-60 days 144 60-90 days 78 622 90-120 days 89 21 120 days 3,624 55 4,078 705 At 31 December 2012, the Group had one customer accounting for 87% of outstanding trade and other receivables 2011: one customer, 92% and three joint venture partners accounting for 90% of joint venture receivables 2011: six joint venture partners, 80%.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Cash balances can be invested in short term bank deposits and AAA rated liquidity funds, subject to Board approved limits and with a view to minimising counterparty credit risks.
LiTuidity risk The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds by reviewing its cash ow requirements on a regular basis relative to its existing bank facilities and the maturity prole of these facilities.
Specically the Groups policy is to ensure that sufficient liquidity or committed facilities exist within the Group to meet its operational funding requirements and to ensure the Group can service its debt and adhere to its financial covenants.
Throughout the year and at 31 December 2012 the Group was in compliance with all financial covenant ratios agreed with its bankers.
The new facility comprises a committed amount of US 525,000,000 for three years dependent upon reserves, extendable to four years at the option ofthe Group provided conditions are met and a further year with the consent of the lenders.
The Letters of Credit of US 123,750,000 under the old facility were rolled into the new facility and have subsequently increased to US 181,500,000.
An upfront arrangement fee of 1.75% was payable.
Interest on the revolving credit facility is payable at LIBOR relative to each agreed loan period plus a margin of 2.25% to 3.25% dependent on the Groups leverage ratio.
Facility non-utilisation commitment fees are payable at 40% of the interest margin.
EnQuest PLC 90 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26.
Risk management and financial instruments continued The maturity proles of the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities are as follows: On demand Up to 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years Total Year ended 31 December 2012 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Loans and borrowings 34,600 34,600 Obligations under finance leases 34 35 72 141 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 329,666 329,666 Financial expenses 1,123 1,123 Other liability 17,150 17,150 329,666 18,307 35 34,672 382,680 On demand Up to 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years Total ear ended 31 December 2011 US 000 US 000 US 000 US 000 US 000 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 234,337 234,337 Financial expenses 922 922 234,337 922 235,259 The following tables detail the Groups expected maturity of payables receivables for its derivative financial instruments.
The amounts in these tables are different from the balance sheet as the table is prepared on a contractual undiscounted cash ow basis.
Less than On demand 3months 3 to 12 months 1 to 2 years 2 years Total Year ended 31 December 2012 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Foreign exchange forward contracts 6,298 6,298 Foreign exchange forward contracts 6,298 6,298 Less than On demand 3months 3 to 12 months 1 to 2 years 2 years Total ear ended 31 December 2011 US 000 US 000 US 000 US 000 US 000 US 000 Foreign exchange forward contracts 50,691 219,750 25,395 295,836 Foreign exchange forward contracts 50,691 219,750 25,395 295,836 - At 31 December 2011 and 2012, the Group held commodity forward contracts for which, based on the oil price at 31 December 2011 and 2012, there were no projected contracted cash ows.
Capital management The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in notes 20 and 24, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves, and retained earnings as in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity on page 64.
The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to optimise the return on investment, by managing its capital structure to achieve capital efficiency whilst also maintaining exibility for future acquisitions.
The Group regularly monitors the capital requirements of the business over the short, medium and long term, in order to enable it to foresee when additional capital will be required.
Note 20 to the financial statements provides further details of the Groups nancing activity.
The Group also has approval from the Board to hedge the exchange risk on up to 70% and 50% of the non US dollar portion of the Groups annual capital budget and operating expenditure respectively, and up to 50% of annual production.
This is designed to minimise the risk of adverse movements in exchange rates and prices eroding the return on the Groups projects and operations.
The Board regularly reassesses the existing dividend policy to ensure that shareholder value is maximised.
It continues to believe that, in the light of the Groups significant capital projects and exploration and acquisition opportunities, the enhancement of shareholder value can best be achieved by reinvesting the Groups cash.
Any future payment of dividends is expected to depend on the earnings and financial condition of the Company and such other factors as the Board considers appropriate.
EnQuest PLC 91 Annual Report 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 26.
Risk management and financial instruments continued The Group monitors capital using the gearing ratio and return on shareholders equity as follows: 2012 2011 US$000 US 000 Loans and borrowings, net A 34,741 Cash and short term deposits 124,522 378,907 Net debt cash B 89,781 378,907 Equity attributable to EnQuest PLC shareholders C 1,293,869 934,208 profit for the year attributable to EnQuest PLC shareholders D 362,218 60,991 profit for the year attributable to EnQuest PLC shareholders excluding exceptionals E 259,665 136,053 Gross gearing ratio A C 0.027 n a Net gearing ratio B C n a n a Shareholders return on investment D C 28% 7% Shareholders return on investment excluding exceptionals E C 20% 15% 27.
Post balance sheet events In December 2012, a Sale and Purchase Agreement was executed in respect of the sale of the P8A licence to Van Dyke Energy for an initial consideration of US 3,000,000 plus a contingent payment of a further US 3,000,000 payable once the eld incorporating the licence reaches gross sales volumes of 2.5 million barrels.
The carrying value was US 45,000 at 31 December 2012.
This is expected to complete in the first half of 2013.
On 21 January 2013 the Group received formal consent from the Department of Energy and Climate Change in respect of the Thistle Late Life Extension LL: development.
The incremental reserves targeted by the development will receive Additionally Developed Oil Field Allowance in excess of 200,000,000 US 320,000,000.
This is a new eld allowance announced by the Government in 2012 to help mature elds in the UKCS and will apply when the taxation legislation receives Royal Assent in 2013.
On 23 January 2013, EnQuest Britain Limited agreed with CIECO Energy UK Limited to acquire two of its afliate companies which together hold a total of an 8% non-operated interest in the producing oil eld Alba, in the UK Continental Shelf.
The acquisition completed on 22 March 2013, with consideration, net of cash acquired, totalling 19,622,000 US 29,700,000 plus a further deferred cash consideration of up to 500,000 US 800,000 contingent on certain project milestones.
In February 2013, the Group issued a 5.5% Sterling Retail Bond through the Order Book for Retail Bonds of the London Stock Exchange ORB.
The Bonds raised 145,000,000 and will pay a xed gross rate of interest of 5.5% per annum until 2022.
Subsidiaries At 31 December 2012, EnQuest PLC had investments in the following principal subsidiaries: Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by Name of Company Principal activity Country of incorporation the Group EnQuest North Sea BV Intermediate holding company Netherlands 100% EnQuest Britain Limited Intermediate holding company and provision of Group England 100% manpower and contracting procurement services i EnQuest Dons Limited Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% i EnQuest Dons Oceania Limited Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons Cayman Islands 100% i EnQuest Heather Limited Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% i EnQuest Thistle Limited Extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% i Stratic Energy UK Limited Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% i Grove Energy Limited Intermediate holding company and exploration of Canada 100% hydrocarbons i EnQuest ENS Limited Extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% i EnQuest UKCS Limited Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% EnQuest Norge AS Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons Norway 100% i EnQuest Heather Leasing Limited Leasing England 100% i Nio Petroleum Sabah Limited Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% i Held by subsidiary undertaking.
EnQuest PLC 92 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
