142 Appendix 1 Denition and comparability of CP GRM GRM is calculated as actual sales net of crude costs derived from the accounts.
Inventory gains and losses, hedging gains and losses and sales tax benefit for the period also form part of the GRM.
Based on this method of calculation, Essar Energys reported GRMs are not directly comparable to the performance of other reners, other rening benchmarks and industry reports due to following reasons: t The Vadinar oil renery operates in the state of Gujarat and until 17 January 2012, the Group benefited from a government sales tax incentive, which, following the judgment of the Supreme Court of India on 17 January 2012, the Group is no longer entitled to.
All such amounts previously recognised in respect of this benefit have been adjusted in the 15 month period ended 31 March 2012 see Note 8a to the financial statements.
t In India, domestic products are sold based on Government decided formulae known as Renery Transfer Price, RTP.
RTP of LPG and Kerosene are based on the average market price of the previous month, while for other products including Gasoil and Gasoline it is based on the average price of the previous fortnight.
As a result the revenues may not match the prevailing product prices for the period.
t The Company adopts the first in, first out FIFO methodology for crude inventory valuation.
As a consequence the cost of crude consumed can be crude purchased in earlier periods which may not reect current prevailing crude prices.
For crudes with a long voyage time these differences can be more significant.
t Sales quantity does not directly match actual production during the period as there may be inventory movement compared to a previous period.
t Commodity derivative instruments are used to act as an economic hedge against the price risk of forecast crude oil purchases, future rened product sales and future product crack margins.
These derivative instruments are required to berecorded at fair value with gains and losses recognised in income because hedge accounting is not applied.
The following adjustments are made to the GRM to provide a CP GRM that reects underlying operational performance and better communicates industry comparable performance of the renery.
These adjustments are as follows: t The sales quantity is taken as actual production during the period.
This eliminates the effect of inventory gains and losses in the GRM.
This sales quantity is allocated into export and domestic sales based on the actual ratio of export and domestic sales for the period.
t The cost of crude is taken at the current prices of crude grades actually consumed, net of premium or discounts as applicable.
Prevailing custom duty is applied on the cost of crude.
t In India, to calculate the revenue from the sales quantity the domestic sales price is valued based on the RTP of the same period rather than any other period.
Export prices are based on actual realised export prices, as they do not have timing differences.
Revenue is adjusted for premiums or discounts achieved by the Company.
For domestic sales custom duty recovery is built up in RTP itself whilst Duty benefit for exports is added separately.
t In the UK, as there is no equivalent RTP, both domestic and export revenues are based on average prices for the month.
t The impact of economic hedging gains or losses is excluded.
t The impact of the Gujarat government sales tax benefit is separately identied.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012
