80 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Presentation of financial statements 1.1 Corporate information Essar Energy plc the Company is a public limited Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act.
The address of the registered ofce is 3rd Floor, Lansdowne House, Berkeley Square, London, W1J 6ER and its head ofce is 10, Frere Felix Valois Street, Port Louis, Mauritius.
The Company was incorporated in the UK on 18 December 2009 as a wholly owned subsidiary of Essar Global Limited EGLor parent company.
Between 18 December 2009 and 7 May 2010, the Company was party to a series of transactions with other EGL group companies whereby it acquired control of the Renery and Marketing, Exploration and Production, and Power businesses ofEGL prior to IPO.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 31.
Change in accounting year The Indian Income Tax Act requires Indian companies to le their annual accounts and returns based on the year ended 31 March.
All Indian companies within the Group prepare their accounts on this basis.
To ensure that all accounting periods are aligned within the Group, the Company announced in August 2011 that it had decided to also change its year end to 31 March.
This change in year end means that Essar Energy plc is publishing financial statements for the 15 months ended 31March 2012.
Comparative gures are for the 12 months ended 31 December 2010 and hence are not directly comparable.
1.2 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements presented in this report have been prepared in accordance with International FinancialReporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulations.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation of available-for-sale assets, and financial assets and liabilities.
The Group was formed under a series of transactions with entities under the same control as the Company, referred to ascommon control transactions between 18 December 2009 and 7 May 2010.
The Company was party to a series of transactions with other Essar Global Limited group companies whereby it acquired control of the Renery and Marketing, Exploration and Production, and Power businesses of Essar Global Limited prior to IPO on 7 May 2010.
The Group accordingly prepared its first set of IFRS consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 using merger accounting principles, as if the transactions giving rise to the formation of the Group took place prior to 1January2009.
Once control was obtained, further acquisitions of non-controlling interests have been dealt with through reserves.
Businesses which were transferred out of the ownership of the Groups subsidiaries to entities held under common control were excluded from the consolidated financial statements.
The assets, liabilities and the profit or loss of the entities comprising the Group have been consolidated and all transactions and balances between entities included within the Group have been eliminated on consolidation.
Invested capital reected the aggregated equity of the Renery and Marketing, Exploration and Production, and Power businesses, prior to the formation of the Group.
At the point at which the Company became the parent company of the Group, the Groups equity reected the share capital and share premium of the Company, together with other reserves arising on consolidation as shown in the statement of changes in equity and Note 23.
Note 11 sets out how the Group has applied these principles in establishing its earnings per share for 2010.
EGL remains the ultimate parent company of the Group and its controlling party.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review.
The Business Review also includes a summary of the Groups financial position, its cash ows and borrowing facilities.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 81 1.
Presentation of financial statements continued 1.3 Going concern The Group has prepared detailed annual business plans for the year to June 2013 based on the annual business plans for the 2013 financial year.
These business plans were used as the basis for assessing the Groups cash headroom and compliance with banking covenants.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within its current available funding and anticipated roll-over of facilities which mature in the ordinary course of business together with other facilities which have been agreed with the relevant banks but await final documentation.
As set out in Note 8, on 17 January 2012, the Supreme Court of India ruled that the Group was not entitled to participate in the Sales Tax Incentive Scheme the Scheme, and on 24 January the Government of Gujarat served notice on the Group requiring it to pay the outstanding sales tax liability of US$1,186.9 million plus associated interest.
The Group has now led a writ petition with the High Court of Gujarat to waive or reduce the interest owed, and to defer the payment of sales tax over a number of years as may be permitted under the Gujarat Value Added Tax Act 2003.
The High Court of Gujarat has admitted the writ petition and asked the Government of Gujarat to consider this application.
In view of the matter being sub judice, the timing of payment of the sales tax liability and related interest, if any, is not denitive, and will not be known until determined by the current legal process.
In view of this and based on legal advice, the interest on the sales tax liability has been treated as a contingency as set out in Note 29.
The Group plans to fund any repayment of the sales tax liability through a combination of internal funding and through obtaining a new loan facility.
The Group is currently in advanced stages of establishing credit facilities of US$1 billion with its lenders to ensure that the Group has adequate funds available to meet any liabilities due to the State of Gujarat as and when the decision of the Government of Gujarat the High Court is established.
Although the facility is expected to be committed shortly, the process is ongoing.
For this reason the Directors are required to conclude that these circumstances represents a material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt upon the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Although there is no denitive sales tax liability payment schedule at this time, the Board is confident of arranging the facility well ahead of any payments falling due, resulting from the pending legal process.
In addition, if the Government of Gujarat permits payment of the liability in instalments as requested then the facility may not be fully drawn down with the liability partly met through the Groups internal resources.
The Directors have examined all available evidence and have concluded that although there is a risk that they will not be able to secure agreement with the lender outlined above, in light of the supportive nature of the relationship held with the lender and the advanced stage the Group is in establishing the facility, the Directors are satisfied that adequate financial resources will continue to be made available to the Group and the Company so as to enable it to continue to trade on a going concern basis.
As a result, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups and Companys financial statements.
1.4 Adoption of new and revised standards In the current year, the following new and revised standards and interpretations have been adopted by the Group, none of which had a material impact on the current or prior year reported results and the financial position: t Amendment to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters: t IAS 19 revised will impact the measurement of the various components representing movements in the dened benefit pension obligation and associated disclosures, but not the Groups total obligation.
It is likely that following the replacement of expected returns on plan assets with a net finance cost in the income statement, the profit for the period will be reduced and accordingly other comprehensive income increased: t IAS 24 2009 Related Party Disclosures: t Amendment to IAS 32 Classication of Rights Issues: t Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement: t IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments: t IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers: and t Improvements to IFRSs 2010.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 82 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Presentation of financial statements continued 1.5 Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by theEU : t IFRS 1 amended Severe Hyperination and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters: t IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets: t IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: t IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: t IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: t IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: t IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: t IAS 1 amended Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income: t IAS 12 amended Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets: t IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements: t IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures: and t IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods, except as follows: t IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and classications of Financial Instruments: t IFRS 12 will impact the disclosure of interests that the Group has in other entities: and t IFRS 13 will impact the measurement of fair value for certain assets and liabilities as well as the associated disclosures.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review has been completed.
Accounting policies and estimates 2.1 significant accounting policies 2.1.
1 Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses from third parties are accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the aggregate value of the identiable assets, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition in exchange for control of the acquiree, except for a business combination under common control which is described below.
The acquirees identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the date of acquisition, except for non-current assets that are classied as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets held for sale and discontinued operations which are recognised at fair value less costs to sell.
Where it is not possible to complete the determination of fair values by the date on which the first post-acquisition financial statements are approved, a provisional assessment of fair values is made and any adjustments required to those provisional fair values, and the corresponding adjustments to purchased goodwill, are nalised within 12 months of the acquisitiondate.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of thepurchase consideration over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
If, however, the fair values of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost ofacquisition, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Goodwill is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill that is recognised as an asset and is initially measured at cost, is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the non-controlling shareholders proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised and subsequently also includes the non-controlling shareholders proportion of changes in equity since the date of combination.
The Group follows the entity concept method of accounting for changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries.
In the event of apurchase of a minority shareholders interest where the Group holds the majority of shares of a subsidiary, any excess over the Groups share of net assets is recorded in retained earnings without change in goodwill.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 83 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued Common control acquisitions The assets and liabilities of subsidiaries acquired from entities under common control are recorded at the carrying value recognised by the transferor.
Any differences between the carrying value of the net assets of subsidiaries acquired, and theconsideration paid by the Group is accounted for as an adjustment to retained earnings.
When the transferor contributes the subsidiaries to the Group, the original cost paid by the transferor is recorded as capital investment with the differences recorded as an increase in retained earnings.
The net assets of the subsidiaries and their results are recognised from the dateon which control of the subsidiaries was obtained by the transferor.
2 Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or joint controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
3 Revenue recognition Revenue from the sale of petroleum products is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, net of trade discounts, volume rebates, value added tax, sales taxes and duties.
A sale is recognised when economic benets associated with the sale are expected to ow to the Group and the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed and it can be reliably measured.
This is usually when title and insurance risk has passed to the customer.
Revenue from power supply is accounted for on the basis of billings to consumers or unbilled supply of power.
Generally all consumers are billed on the basis of recording of consumption of electricity by installed meters.
Sales of electricity are accounted for based on relevant tariff rates applicable under the contract with the customer.
Revenue associated with sales tax deferral is recognised in accordance with the Groups policy for accounting for government grants set out in 2.1.
4 Sales tax incentives The Group believed it was entitled to the benefit of certain sales tax incentives under the Capital Investment Incentive Premier Prestigious Units Scheme 19952000 the Sales Tax Incentive Scheme.
The benets under the Sales Tax Incentive Scheme were recognised when it was reasonable to expect that the benefit would be received and that all related conditions would be met.
The benefit of a sales tax deferral with no associated interest outow was recognised as a liability in accordance with the imputation rule under IAS20 Accounting for Government grants and disclosure of Government assistance.
This deferred liability was measured in accordance with IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The benefit of the below market rate of interest or no interest was measured as the difference between initial carrying value of the financial liability as determined in accordance with IAS39 and the sales tax collected.
The benets under the Sales Tax Incentive Scheme were available when eligible domestic sales were made from the Gujarat State and the sale was therefore treated as the key condition giving rise to the recognition of the benefit.
It was expected that all other conditions related to the deferral of sales tax would be met and therefore the benefit was recognised as eligible domestic sales were made.
The deferred liability to the State was recognised at its net present value, and therefore a finance charge was recorded as the discount on this liability.
Note 8a sets out details of the adjustments made following the ruling of the Honourable Supreme Court of India that the Group could not participate in the Scheme.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 84 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued 2.1.
5 Foreign currency transactions and translation Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated into functional currency at the exchange rates at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies are translated into functional currency at exchange rates at the reporting date and exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars.
For the purposes of consolidation, the income statement items of those entities for which the US dollar is not the functional currency are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange during the year.
The related balance sheets are translated at the rates at the balance sheet date.
Goodwill arising on consolidation which is attributed to an entity for which the US dollar is not the functional currency is translated into US dollars at the rates at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation are reported in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The rates used to translate the consolidated financial statements were as follows: 15 months 12 months ended ended 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 INR $ INR $ Opening rates 44.81 46.68 Average rates 47.40 45.74 Closing rates 51.16 44.81 2.1.
6 Derivative financial instruments In order to reduce its exposure to foreign exchange, commodity price and interest rate risk, the Group enters into forward, option and swap contracts.
The Group also enters into financial instruments to acquire non-controlling stakes of its subsidiaries to increase its stake.
Additionally the Group provides warrants over stakes held in certain subsidiaries.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
The Groups derivative arrangements are not designated hedges under the denitions of IAS39.
Consequently, all fair value movements in respect of derivative financial instruments are taken to the income statement.
Further details of derivative financial instruments including fair value measurements are disclosed in Note 22.
7 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, if any.
The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into operation, the initial estimate of the decommissioning obligation, and for qualifying assets, borrowing costs if the recognition criteria aremet.
The cost of mining properties and leases, which include the cost of acquiring and developing mining properties and mineral rights, are capitalised as property, plant and equipment in the period in which such costs are incurred.
Costs directly related to construction, including costs and revenues arising from testing, specic nancing costs and foreign exchange losses, are capitalised up to the point where the property, plant and equipment become operational.
Property, plantand equipment become operational once all testing and trial runs are complete and it is ready for use in the manner management intended.
Income from the sale of products as a result of testing and trial runs of a new asset are part of the directly attributable cost of assets and therefore deducted from the cost of the asset.
The purchase price or construction costis the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
The capitalised value of a finance lease is also included within property, plant and equipment.
Likewise, when a major inspection or major maintenance is undertaken, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are recognised in the profit or loss as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment in the course of construction is carried at cost, less accumulated impairment losses, if any, andis not depreciated.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 85 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benets are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in profit or loss in the year the asset is derecognised.
The assets residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each financial year end.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment other than freehold land and properties under construction is calculated to write off the cost of the asset to its residual value using the straight line method or the written down value method or on a unit of production basis as appropriate, over its expected useful life.
Depreciation begins when the assets become ready for use.
Depreciation is calculated over the estimated useful lives of assets and on the basis of depreciation methods as follows: Expected useful life Asset Depreciation method years Buildings Straight line 40 Plant and equipment Renery India Straight line 40 1 Renery UK Straight line 1520 Power plant Straight line 1130 Related assets Straight line 1025 Producing properties Unit of production basis Mining properties Unit of production basis Ofce equipment and xtures Straight line 320 Motor vehicles Written down value 911 1 Expected useful life post acquisition of Stanlow renery.
Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of lease term and estimated usefullife.
8 Impairment of non-financial assets The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment, including producing properties and leases, intangible assets excluding goodwill and investments in joint controlled entities are reviewed for impairment at each balance sheet date ifevents or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit to which the asset belongs.
If there are indicators of impairment, an assessment is made to determine whether the assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
Whenever the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the carrying value of the asset or the cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount and impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but such that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash generating unit inprior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
9 Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly relating to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets are added to the costs ofthose assets during the construction phase on an effective interest basis, until such time as the assets are ready for their intended use or sale which, in the case of producing or mining properties, is when saleable material begins to be extracted from such properties.
Where surplus funds are available for a short-term out of money borrowed specically to finance a qualied asset, the income generated from such short-term investments is deducted from capitalised borrowing costs.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 86 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
10 Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date of: whether the fullment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specic asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets of the Group at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the income statement, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups policy on borrowing costs see above.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term.
Payments made under operating leases, where the lessors effectively retain substantially all the risk and benets of ownership of the lease property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense over the term of the lease.
Property, plant and equipment used by the Group under operating leases are not recognised in the Groups balance sheet.
11 Financial assets All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under acontract whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classied as at fair value through profit or loss, which are initially measured at fair value.
The Group classies its financial assets into the following specified categories: at Fair Value Through profit or Loss FVTPL, cash and cash equivalents, loans and receivables and Available-for-sale AFS financial assets.
The classication is dependent on the nature and purpose of the financial assets acquired.
Management determines the classication of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Further details on the Groups financial assets and fair value measurement are disclosed in Note 26.
Financial assets at FVTPL Financial assets at FVTPL include financial assets held for trading or designated upon initial recognition as at FVTPL.
Financialassets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
Financial assets are classied as held for trading if: i acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near term: ii they are a part of an identied portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking: or iii they are derivatives unless these are designated as effective hedging instruments.
A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: i such designation eliminates or signicantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: ii the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis: or iii it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in the other gains and losses line item in the income statement.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in Note 26.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
After initial measurement loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired as well as through the amortisation process.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 87 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued AFS financial investments Listed shares held by the Group that are traded in an active market are classied as being AFS and are stated at fair value.
The Group invests in unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market but classied as AFS financial investments and stated at fair value because the Directors consider that fair value can be reliably measured.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated reserves with the exception of impairment losses, interest calculated using the effective interest method and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets, which are recognised directly in profit or loss.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassied to profit or loss.
Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss when the Groups right to receive the dividend is established.
The fair value of AFS monetary assets denominated in a foreign currency is determined in that foreign currency and translated at the spot rate at the balance sheet date.
The foreign exchange gains and losses that are recognised in profit or loss are determined based on the amortised cost of the monetary asset.
Other foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash ows of the investment have been affected.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost the Group assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists for assets that are individually significant, or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
Objective evidence of impairment could include: i significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: ii default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or iii it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows excluding future expected credit losses that have not yet been incurred.
The present value of the estimated future cash ows is discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
If a loan has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
For AFS financial investments, the Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a Group of investments is impaired.
In the case of equity investments classied as AFS, objective evidence for impairment would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost.
Where there is evidence of impairment, the cumulative loss measured as he difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that investment previously recognised in the income statement is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses on equity investments are not reversed through the income statement: increases in their fair value after impairment are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
12 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classied as financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities at initial recognition.
The Groups other financial liabilities include borrowings, trade and other payables and finance lease payables.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and in the case of loans and borrowings, include directly attributable transaction costs.
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classication as follows: Financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial liabilities at FVTPL include those held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are classied as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term.
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the income statement.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 88 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, tothe net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
Financial guarantee contracts The Group provides certain guarantees in respect of the indebtedness of subsidiary undertakings, claims under contract and other arrangements in the ordinary course of business.
The Group evaluates each arrangement to determine whether it is an insurance or a financial guarantee contract.
Financial guarantee contract liabilities are measured initially at their fair values and, if not designated as at FVTPL, are subsequently measured at the higher of the amount of the obligation under the contract and the amount initially recognised less cumulative amortisation over period of guarantee provided.
Once the arrangements are designated as insurance contracts, these are disclosed as contingent liabilities unless the obligations under guarantee become probable.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled, extinguished or expire.
13 Provisions and contingencies Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation, as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outow of resources, that can reliably be estimated, will be required to settle such an obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ows to net present value using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specic to the liability.
Unwinding of the discount is recognised in the income statement as a finance cost.
Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and are adjusted to reect the current best estimate.
An onerous contract is a contract in which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed theeconomic benets expected to be received under it.
The unavoidable costs under a contract reect the least net cost ofexiting from the contract, which is the lower of the cost of fullling it and any compensation or penalties arising from failure to full it.
These provisions are charged to the income statement as and when the contract is executed.
A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of an obligation will only be confirmed by future events or where the amount of the obligation cannot be measured reliably.
Contingent assets are not recognised, but are disclosed where an inow of economic benets is probable.
In normal course of business, contingent liabilities may arise from litigation and other claims against the Group.
14 Inventories Inventories other than crude oil extracted by the Exploration and Production segment are valued at lower of cost and net realisable value.
Crude oil extracted and in saleable condition is valued at net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the following bases: i Raw materials and consumables are determined at weighted average cost except crude oil for the renery which is measured on a first-in first-out basis.
ii Finished products and work in progress are determined at direct material cost, labour cost and a proportion of manufacturing overheads based on normal or allocated capacity.
iii Inventories held for trading purposes are determined at weighted average cost.
Net realisable value is determined by reference to estimated prices existing at the balance sheet date for inventories less all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make the sale.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 89 2.
15 Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Intangible assets with nite lives are amortised over their useful lives and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that an intangible asset may be impaired.
The assets useful lives and methods of amortisation are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each financial year end.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised.
Finite lived intangible assets, which are subject to amortisation, are amortised over their useful lives as mentioned below: Expected useful life Intangible asset years Software 35 Power sales contract 20 2.1.
16 Joint controlled entities A joint controlled entity is an entity in which the Group shares joint control over the strategic, financial and operating decisions with one or more ventures under a contractual arrangement.
Investment in joint controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classied as held for sale, which is recognised at fair value less costs to sell.
In accordance with the equity method, investments in joint controlled entities are measured at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of joint controlled entities, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Goodwill arising from the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised of the joint controlled entities is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The income statement reects share of results of operations of the joint controlled entities.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in equity of the joint controlled entities, the Group recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
profits and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the joint controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant joint controlled entities.
17 Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation activity involves the search for oil and gas resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the assessment of commercial viability of an identied resource.
Exploration and evaluation activity includes: i researching and analysing historical exploration data: ii gathering exploration data through geological and geophysical studies: iii exploratory and appraisal drilling: iv evaluating and testing discoveries: v determining transportation and infrastructure requirements: and vi conducting market and finance studies.
Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specic exploration area are charged to the profit and loss account.
License costs paid in connection with a right to explore an existing exploration area are capitalised.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure including amortisation of capitalised license costs is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred except in the following circumstances: i the exploration and evaluation activity is related to an established discovery for which commercially recoverable reserves have already been established: or ii at the balance sheet date, exploration and evaluation activity has not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of commercially recoverable reserves.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 90 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure considered to be tangible is recorded as a component of property, plant and equipment at cost less impairment losses, if any.
All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is monitored for indicators of impairment.
Where a potential impairment is indicated, an impairment test of the capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is performed for each area of interest in conjunction with the Group or pool of operating assets representing a cash generating unit to which the exploration is attributed.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is notexpected to be recovered it is charged to the profit and loss account.
Exploration areas, at which reserves have been discovered but that require major capital expenditure before production can begin, are continually evaluated to ensure that commercial quantities of reserves exist or to ensure that additional exploration or evaluation work is under way or planned.
18 Development expenditure When commercially recoverable reserves are determined and development is sanctioned, the capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is transferred to assets under construction after impairment is assessed and any resulting impairment loss is recognised.
Expenditure on the construction, installation or completion of infrastructure facilities such as platforms, pipelines and the drilling of development wells are capitalised as assets under construction.
On completion of a development, all capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure together with the subsequent development expenditure transferred to producing properties are depreciated using unit of production method.
This is carried out with reference to quantities, with depletion computed on the basis of the ratio that oil and gas production bears to balance proved and probable reserves at commencement of the year.
19 Tax Tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is provided on taxable income at amounts expected to be paid or recovered, using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
In India, the current tax payable by a company is charged to the income statement in the applicable period at the corporate tax rate computed under the normal provisions of the Indian Income Tax Act or the minimum alternate tax MAT, whichever is higher.
Excess paid under MAT can be carried forward for up to 10 years as a credit against corporate income tax in the future.
Where the MAT credit satisfies the relevant criteria under IAS 12 Income Taxes, it is recognised as a deferred tax asset.
Deferred tax is recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: i where the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting nor taxable profit or loss: and ii in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint controlled entities, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, unused tax credits carried forward and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset will be realised or the liability will be settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or income in the income statement, except when they relate to items credited or debited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also recognised directly in equity, or where they arise from the initial accounting for a business combination.
In the case of a business combination, the tax effect is taken into account in calculating goodwill or in determining the excess of the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of the business combination.
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same tax authority.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 91 2.
20 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, short-term deposits with banks with original maturity of lessthan 90 days and short-term highly liquid investments, that are readily convertible into cash and which are subject to insignicant risk of changes in the principal amount.
Bank overdrafts, which are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the operations are included in cash and cash equivalents.
21 Retirement benets The Group operates both dened benefit and dened contribution schemes for its employees as well as post employment benefit plans.
For dened contribution schemes the amount charged as expense is the contributions paid or payable when employees have rendered services entitling them to the contributions.
For dened benefit pension and post-employment benefit plans, full actuarial valuations are carried out every year end using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses arising during the year are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benets are already vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the benets become vested.
The employee benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the dened benefit obligation as reduced by the fair value of the related plan assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Detailed disclosures are not provided within the financial statements as amounts associated with such schemes are not considered to be significant.
22 Share-based payments The cost of granting share options and other share-based remuneration is recognised in the income statement at their fair value at grant date.
They are expensed straight-line over the vesting period, based on estimates of the shares or options that will eventually vest.
Charges are reversed if it appears that non-market performance will not be met.
Options are valued using the Black-Scholes model.
23 IPO costs Incremental directly attributable costs incurred on issue of equity shares are offset against the share premium account in accordance with Companies Act 2006 and IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
2.2 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the course of applying the policies set out in section 2.1 above, management have made estimations and assumptions that impact the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Several of these estimates and judgements are related to matters that are inherently uncertain as they pertain to future events.
These estimates and judgements are evaluated at each reporting date and are based on historical experience, internal controls, advice from external experts and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The resulting accounting estimates may vary from the actual results.
The Group believes that the assumptions, judgements and estimations that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial period are the following areas: 2.2.
1 Sales tax benefit The Group in the past recognised a benefit from its application for certain sales tax incentives given by the state of Gujarat provided the sales were made from the state of Gujarat.
Under these incentive schemes, the Group believed it was able to defer the payment of up to approximately Rs.
91billion US$1.95billion collected as sales tax for eligible domestic sales made from the state of Gujarat until the financial year ending 31March 2021 or earlier if the full eligible limit was exhausted, after which it would be required to repay the retained amounts of sales tax in six equal annual instalments.
There were a number ofconditions under which this benefit has been granted including: i ensuring that certain percentages of the employees are local people: ii re-investing certain amounts of the benefit: iii adhering to specified pollution control measures: and iv contributing a certain amount to the prescribed rural development scheme in the state of Gujarat.
The amount of benefit recorded was based on managements expectation that it would begin repayments in 2021 and that itwould comply with all the related conditions.
This was based on the fact that management intended to comply with all suchconditions, was able to control its compliance, and intended to monitor the sales to allow the Group to benefit from themaximum deferral period.
Any change in this assessment would have resulted in a change in the benefit that would be recorded in that period.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 92 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued The Group had recorded the sales tax benefit as revenue in the period in which the associated eligible domestic sales were made to customers.
Under IAS20, the benefit may only be recognised when there is reasonable assurance that the entity will comply with the conditions attached to the benefit and must be recognised over the period necessary to match the benefit systematically with the related costs which they are intended to compensate.
Recognition of the benefit in profit or loss on an accruals basis was appropriate only where no suitable basis exists for allocating the benefit to periods other than the one in which it is received.
Management had exercised its judgement in assessing the period over which to recognise the benefit and believed there were no significant costs or expenses that the incentive was intended to compensate, as the plants location was determined before the incentive became available and as this incentive was set up, amongst other things, to improve the economic wellbeing of the state of Gujarat.
Accordingly, the Group had recognised the benefit in the period of the eligible domestic sales made from the state of Gujarat, being the primary condition associated with the benefit.
An alternative view would be that the sales tax benefit was intended to compensate recipients for the costs of setting up and or conducting their business in the State of Gujarat, in which case the benefit could have been recognised over the period necessary to match such costs.
For example, a differing judgement may be to i recognise the benefit during the period in which the Company incurred operating expenses whilst it enjoyed the benefit for example, 13 years being the remaining period for which the sales tax payment could be deferred or ii recognise the benefit over the expected life of the capital asset constructed, namely the Vadinar renery the depreciation period for which is 40 years both of which would have resulted in materially different results in the periods presented with signicantly lower revenue and profit.
The Groups eligibility to participate in the Scheme was challenged by the State Government of Gujarat see Note 8a and on 17 January 2012 the Honourable Supreme Court of India set aside the previous judgment of the High Court of Gujarat and ruled that the Group could not participate in the scheme.
The Group continued to apply the accounting policy in respect of the sales tax benefit up to 17 January 2012 as the revenue was earned.
The loss of the benefit as a result of the Honourable Supreme Court judgment on 17 January 2012 is a change in estimate of revenue earned up to 17 January 2012.
This requires that the entire amount previously recognised to 17 January 2012 is adjusted in the current period against each individual line item through which the relevant benefit or associated costs were recognised.
2 Borrowing costs The Group is required to calculate the borrowing costs associated with certain financial liabilities based on the estimated future cash ows arising on those liabilities under the effective interest method of accounting.
These estimated future cash ows may be uncertain due to various options and other terms within the related borrowing agreements which may provide for early repayment of borrowings, so reducing future interest payments.
The Group reassesses its best estimate of such future cash ows under each borrowing agreement at each reporting date, and gains and losses may arise as a result refer Note 8b.
3 Contingencies and commitments In the normal course of business, contingent liabilities may arise from litigation and other claims against the Group.
Potential liabilities that have a low probability of crystallising or are very difficult to quantify reliably, are treated as contingent liabilities.
Such liabilities are disclosed in the notes but are not provided for in the consolidated financial statements.
There can be no assurance regarding the final outcome of these legal proceedings.
For further details, refer to Note 29.
4 Depreciable lives The Groups relevant non-current assets are depreciable over their estimated useful lives as set out in section 2.1 above.
Such lives are dependent upon an assessment of both the technical lives of the assets and also their likely economic lives based on factors including commodity prices, alternative sources of supply, relative efficiency and operating costs.
Accordingly depreciable lives are reviewed annually using the best information available to management.
5 Impairment testing Goodwill is tested for impairment annually.
Other non-current assets are tested for impairment when conditions suggest that there is a risk of impairment.
Where impairment testing is carried out, management uses the best information available to them to assess the likely cash ows available to the relevant asset.
Key assumptions are inherently uncertain and include commodity prices, anticipated production costs, likely asset lives, the timing of granting of licenses and permits and the relevant discount rates.
6 Tax The Group is subject to tax, principally within India.
The amount of tax payable in respect of any period is dependent upon the interpretation of the relevant tax rules.
Whilst an assessment must be made of the deferred tax position of each entity within the Group, these matters are inherently uncertain until the position of each entity is agreed with the relevant tax authorities.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 93 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which thetemporary differences can be utilised.
The Group reviews the deferred tax assets at the end of each reporting period and reduces them to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax assets to be utilised.
The estimation of that probability includes judgements based on the expected performance of the Group.
Various factors are considered to assess the probability of the future utilisation of deferred tax assets, including past operating results, operational plans, expiration of tax losses carried forward, and tax planning strategies.
7 Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation expenditure are capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy in Note 2.1.
In making a decision about whether to continue to capitalise exploration and evaluation expenditures, it is necessary to make judgements about the satisfaction of, if a proved reserves are booked or b i if they have found commercially producible quantities of reserves and ii if they are subject to further exploration or appraisal activity in that either drilling of additional exploratory wells is under way or rmly planned for the near future or other activities are being undertaken to sufciently progress the assessing of reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project.
If there is a change in one of these judgements in a subsequent period, then the related capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditures would be expensed in that period resulting in a charge to income.
8 Fair valuation on acquisition On 31 July 2011 the Group acquired the oil renery and other associated assets at Stanlow, near Ellesmere Port, Cheshire Stanlow renery from Shell UK Limited Shell.
The assets and its existing employees that enable the renery to be managed to process crude and other inputs to create outputs in the form of saleable products are considered to be an integrated set of activities.
The acquisition was thus treated as a business combination.
The management has fair valued all the assets and liabilities acquired as part of the business combination.
The fair value of the assets acquired primarily being the renery plant and equipment using a discounted cash ow model.
The model was based on cash ows projected for the operations of the assets acquired for 10 years.
The projected cash ows were discounted at a discount rate specic to the business.
The inventory was purchased at fair value.
The difference between the amount paid as purchase consideration plus the deferred consideration and the fair value of theassets and liabilities showed a gain on bargain purchase.
Management reassessed the identication of all assets and liabilities.
In particular, the exercise focused on the identication of intangibles like brand or favourable customer contracts, provision for untaken employee leave, lease agreements, unfavourable contracts and other liabilities.
This review identied additional provisions that were made based on their fair value.
No other items were identied by management that required recognition or measurement of asset or liability.
The surplus of the value in use calculated from the fair value exercise after the identication of all assets and liabilities was recognised in the income statement as a gain on bargain purchase in line with the Group policy.
Segment information Information reported to the Board for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of performance is primarily determined by the nature of the different activities that the Group engages in, rather than the geographical location of these operations.
This is reected by the Groups organisational structure and internal financial reporting systems.
The profitability ofthe segments is reviewed based on profit or loss after tax and is based on IFRS.
The Group has the following reportable operating segments: i R&M-India Renery and Marketing India and others : The Group owns a petroleum renery on the west coast of India, together with a 50% interest in a petroleum renery in Kenya, and oil retailing stations on franchise across India.
Its main products are high speed diesel, motor spirit, fuel oil and superior kerosene oil.
The activities of Rening and Marketing include the rening of crude oil and trading, marketing and transportation of nished products and by-products.
ii R&M-UK Renery and Marketing UK : On 31 July 2011 the Group acquired the Stanlow renery in the United Kingdom as discussed further in Note 27.
Theactivities of Rening and Marketing include the rening of crude oil and trading, marketing and transportation of nished products and by-products.
iii Exploration and Production: The Group has a diverse portfolio of 15 blocks for the exploration and production of oil and gas in India, Indonesia, Madagascar, Nigeria and Vietnam.
iv Power: The Group operates gas and liquid fuel-based power plants in India and Canada together with a number of miningassets.
v Corporate: This comprises Essar Energy plc and its subsidiary companies that provide services to the Group as a whole.
Sales between the segments are made at contractually agreed prices.
The segment revenues and segment results include transaction between business segments.
All inter and intra transactions including all profit or loss made within these segments are eliminated on Group consolidation.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 94 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Operating segments The following tables present revenue, profit and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups operating segments for the 15 months ended 31 March 2012 and 12 months ended 31 December 2010: 15 months ended 31 March 2012 Exploration and R&M India R&M UK production Power Corporate Eliminations Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Revenue from external customers 14,905.7 6,353.9 1.3 356.5 21,617.4 Sales tax benefit 339.3 339.3 Inter-segment revenue 60.4 60.4 Total segment revenue before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit 15,245.0 6,353.9 1.3 416.9 60.4 21,956.7 1 Cost of sales 14,250.5 6,317.1 1.7 133.8 71.0 20,632.1 Other operating income 33.0 0.4 2.3 35.7 1 Selling and distribution expenses 117.4 18.3 135.7 General and administration expenses before adjustment 1 for loss of sales tax benefit 128.1 35.5 2.1 19.1 26.7 211.5 Other losses gains excluding non-operational items 259.9 13.2 43.8 316.9 Operational EBITDA 522.1 30.2 2.1 222.5 26.7 10.6 696.2 Adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit Adjustment to Revenues Note 8a 1,053.7 1,053.7 Adjustment to General and administration expenses Note 8a 39.9 39.9 EBITDA 491.7 30.2 2.1 222.5 26.7 10.6 317.6 Depreciation and amortisation 129.0 18.8 0.7 55.7 204.2 EBIT 620.7 49.0 2.8 166.8 26.7 10.6 521.8 Finance income 123.1 0.6 0.1 12.1 19.4 17.3 138.0 Finance cost before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit and interest arising on lapse of prepayment option 344.9 52.9 0.4 78.1 62.9 17.3 521.9 Adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit Note 8a 58.6 58.6 Interest arising on lapse of prepayment option Note 8b 321.5 321.5 Non-operational items included in other gains losses 5.3 13.7 0.2 1.7 20.9 Segment loss profit 1,100.1 87.6 3.1 101.0 68.5 10.6 1,147.7 Tax 39.5 24.1 0.1 15.3 30.8 Adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit Note 8a 309.9 309.9 Adjustment for interest arising on lapse of prepayment option Note 8b 104.3 104.3 Loss profit after tax 725.4 63.5 3.2 85.7 68.5 10.6 764.3 1 Excludes depreciation and amortisation.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 95 3.
Segment information continued 12 months ended 31 December 2010 Exploration and R&M India production Power Corporate Eliminations Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Revenue from external customers 9,388.0 3.2 321.8 9,713.0 Sales tax benefit 292.6 292.6 Inter-segment revenue 27.8 27.8 Total segment revenue 9,680.6 3.2 349.6 27.8 10,005.6 1 Cost of sales 9,044.9 3.8 141.6 27.8 9,162.5 Other operating income 28.1 2.0 3.9 0.1 0.1 34.0 1 Selling and distribution expenses 91.5 91.5 General and administration expenses 91.2 3.1 15.1 10.5 0.1 119.8 Other losses gains excluding non-operational items 33.6 2.8 16.7 53.1 Operational EBITDA 514.7 1.1 213.5 10.4 718.9 EBITDA 514.7 1.1 213.5 10.4 718.9 Depreciation and amortisation 84.5 0.3 42.2 127.0 EBIT 430.2 0.8 171.3 10.4 591.9 Finance income 43.8 3.7 3.0 1.3 49.2 Finance cost 262.6 1.9 71.2 2.2 1.3 336.6 Non-operational items included in other gains losses 11.8 7.9 41.3 61.0 Segment loss profit 223.2 1.1 111.7 31.7 365.5 Tax 75.1 37.6 4.5 117.2 Loss profit after tax 148.1 1.1 74.1 27.2 248.3 1 Excludes depreciation and amortisation.
One customer of Renery and Marketing Segment UK contributing revenue of US$2,327.5 million and three customers in the Rening and Marketing Segment India contributing revenues of US$3,637.1 million, US$2,797.0 million and US$2,128.0 million respectively accounted for approximately 50% of the Groups net sales 2010: Three customers in the Rening and Marketing India segment contributing revenues of US$2,414.5 million, US$1,512.5 million and US$1,309.9 million respectively accounted for approximately 52% of the Groups net sales.
As at 31 December 2010 Exploration and R&M India production Power Corporate Eliminations Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Segment assets 7,409.3 276.7 4,493.6 634.9 340.3 12,474.2 Borrowings 2,696.6 23.4 1,777.6 4,497.6 Other liabilities 2,761.9 14.0 855.8 12.6 309.8 3,334.5 Segment liabilities 5,458.5 37.4 2,633.4 12.6 309.8 7,832.1 1 Addition to property, plant and equipment 749.8 51.0 1,931.5 2,732.3 1 Excluding addition due to business combination.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 96 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Segment information continued The majority of the Groups non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets are located in India other than the assets related to Renery and Marketing Segment UK and certain mining assets located in Indonesia within the Power segment.
Geographical information The Groups operations are located mainly in India and the United Kingdom.
The following table provides an analysis of the Groups revenue by destination, irrespective of the origin of the goods: 15 months 12 months ended ended 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 $ million $ million India 10,136.9 6,918.3 Indonesia 1,537.6 900.4 Singapore 1,248.0 836.1 United Arab Emirates 1,362.6 749.7 United Kingdom 6,240.8 Other 1,430.8 601.1 Total revenue before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit 21,956.7 10,005.6 4.
Revenue 15 months 12 months ended ended 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 $ million $ million Sale of petroleum products 21,260.9 9,391.2 Revenue from power supply 356.5 321.8 Sales tax benefit 339.3 292.6 Revenue before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit 21,956.7 10,005.6 Other operating income 35.7 34.0 Finance income 138.0 49.2 Revenue before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit 22,130.4 10,088.8 Adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit refer Note 8a 1,053.7 Total revenue 21,076.7 10,088.8 The sales tax benefit above relates to the benefit previously recognised on eligible domestic sales within the State of Gujarat from the Vadinar renery.
Under the incentive scheme, sales tax collected within Gujarat from customers was deferred for payment to the State of Gujarat by up to 17 years.
This deferral gave rise to time value benefit as the difference between the cash received and the net present value of the liability to the State.
The benefit was earned as the eligible domestic sales were made within the State of Gujarat: the benefit did not compensate the Group for any particular costs or expenses, and the Group expected all other conditions related to the benefit to be met in full.
The benefit was included within revenue as it was derived directly from sales made to customers.
The Group continued to apply the accounting policy in respect of the sales taxbenet up to 17 January 2012 as the revenue was earned.
The loss of the benefit as a result of the Honourable Supreme Court judgment on 17 January 2012 is a change in estimate of revenue earned up to 17 January 2012 see Note 8a.
Loss profit before tax 15 months 12 months ended ended 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 $ million $ million Loss profit before tax is stated after charging: Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 19,274.2 9,011.6 Losses on commodity derivatives recognised within gross profit 93.3 61.2 Depreciation and amortisation 204.2 127.0 Staff costs 159.2 42.3 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense includes inventory write downs amounting to US$4.0 million 2010: nil.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 97 5.
Loss profit before tax continued Average employee numbers 15 months 12 months ended ended 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 No.
Rening and Marketing India 1,401 1,389 Rening and Marketing UK 1,007 Exploration and Production 263 210 Power 1,012 748 Corporate 16 10 Total 3,699 2,357 Staff costs 15 months 12 months ended ended 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 $ million $ million Salaries and wages 151.4 55.7 Social security costs 6.5 Dened benefit plans 22.9 1.9 Dened contribution plans 1.5 1.1 Total staff cost 182.3 58.7 Less: staff costs capitalised 23.1 16.4 Staff costs charged to the income statement 159.2 42.3 The Company granted options to the Chief Executive and certain members of the Groups senior management team to purchase shares under the Employee Share Option Plan ESOP.
Details of the scheme and its performance criteria are set out in the Remuneration Report.
The total charge in the year relating to the scheme was US$623,569 2010: US$45,506 which is not considered to be significant to the Groups results and therefore no further disclosures have been provided withinthe financial statements.
Net finance costs before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit and lapse of prepayment option 15 months 12 months ended ended 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 $ million $ million Finance costs Interest 780.8 369.8 Bank charges 92.8 85.1 Other 15.6 16.8 Total finance costs 889.2 471.7 Less: borrowing costs capitalised 399.8 154.6 Unwinding of discount 32.5 19.5 Finance cost before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit and interest arising on lapse of prepayment option charged to the income statement 521.9 336.6 Finance income Interest accrued on assigned receivables 33.2 17.5 Interest income 113.5 46.7 Total finance income 146.7 64.2 Less: interest income capitalised 8.7 15.0 Finance income recognised in the income statement 138.0 49.2 Net finance costs before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit and interest arising on lapse of prepayment option 383.9 287.4 Borrowing costs capitalised during the year relate to interest ranging from 1.4% to 16.0% 2010: 1.3% to 13.7% incurred on specic borrowings undertaken to finance construction of assets.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 98 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Net finance costs before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit and lapse of prepayment option continued As sales tax was collected from customers, a corresponding liability to the State of Gujarat was recognised at its net present value.
Accordingly, the discount on the liability unwound over time resulting in the finance costs as shown above.
The Group continued to apply the accounting policy in respect of this liability up to 17 January 2012.
As a result of the Honourable Supreme Court judgment on 17 January 2012 there is a change in estimate of the liability up to 17 January 2012 see Note 8a.
In a related transaction, the Group had deposited amounts based on the then estimated net present value of its future sales tax payments with a related party.
The interest accruing on these deposits of 9.0% 2010: 9.0% per annum is included in finance income above.
In addition to the above, a further interest charge of US$321.5 million before tax arose on the lapse of a prepayment option see Note 8b.
Other losses gains 15 months 12 months ended ended 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 $ million $ million Foreign exchange losses gains 315.2 94.4 Share in loss profit from joint controlled entities Note 28 2.3 1.7 profit on disposal of available for sale investments 0.2 11.2 Surplus on acquisition of a subsidiary Note 27 18.9 Gain on settlement of liabilities 5.4 10.1 Others 3.0 3.3 Total other losses gains 296.0 114.1 The significant depreciation in INR from Rs.
51.16 USD has impacted foreign currency assets and liabilitiesand resulted in foreign exchange losses 2010: Appreciation in INR from Rs.
Included in foreign exchange losses gains is a non-operational gain of US$1.7 million 2010: US$41.3 million from the sale of the initial public offering proceeds into US dollars with the remainder loss of US$316.9 million 2010: gain of US$53.1 million arising from operational payments to creditors and receipts from customers in US dollars where the settlement date rate was different from the transaction date or closing period rate.
Adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit As referred to in the Groups contingent liability note to its annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010, the eligibility of the Groups subsidiary Essar Oil Limited EOL to participate in the Sales Tax Incentive Scheme the Scheme was being challenged by the Government of Gujarat in the Honourable Supreme Court of India, following a judgment by the High Court of Gujarat which confirmed that EOL was eligible to participate in the Scheme.
The case was heard at the end of 2011 and, on 17 January 2012, the Honourable Supreme Court of India set aside the previous judgment of the High Court of Gujarat and ruled that the Group could not participate in the Scheme.
The Group continued to apply its accounting policy in respect of the Sales Tax benefit up to 17 January 2012 as the revenue was earned.
This adjustment affects four line items within the income statement.
Adjustments have been made to: t Revenue since the difference between the cash received, and the net present value of the liability to the State of Gujarat, was originally recognised in revenue in the period in which the associated eligible domestic sales were made to customers: t General and administration expenses since as part of the conditions for the Scheme monies were set aside for payment to a welfare scheme that were originally recognised within general and administration costs: t Finance costs since the unwinding of discount on the liability to the State of Gujarat was previously recorded within finance costs: t Taxation since a deferred tax asset based on the India corporate tax rate has been recognised on the consequential losses to be set off against future profits.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 99 8.
Exceptional items continued A provision was recognised as at 31 December 2011 of US$1,139.8 million reecting the estimate of the sales tax liability subject to the outcome of the review petition led by the Group.
As at 31 March 2012, the provision has been transferred into a financial liability as the review petition has not been admitted and the liability has not become payable.
A current liability has been recognised in the balance sheet at 31 March 2012 of US$1,205.9 million reecting the liability to the State of Gujarat.
Notwithstanding the submission of the petition, EOL was served notice by the Government of Gujarat on 24 January 2012 requiring it to pay the outstanding sales tax liability specified plus associated interest.
Based on legal advice obtained by the Group, the Directors do not consider it likely that material interest is payable on the outstanding sales tax liability as the Group collected the sales tax and deferred its payment in accordance with a judgment by the High Court of Gujarat in favour of EOL.
The Company led a writ petition before the Honourable Gujarat High Court seeking directions on repaying the sales tax by instalments and for remission of interest.
This writ petition was admitted by the Honourable Gujarat High Court on 11 May 2012.
Pending the outcome of the petition and taking into account the significant uncertainties around the final outcome and the legal advice received by EOL, the interest demanded by the sales tax authorities which amounts to US$396.0 million Rs.
20.25 billion up to 31 March 2012 has been treated as a contingent liability See Note 29.
The impact against each line item in the income statement, together with the accounting period in which the original item was recognised, is as follows: 15 months 12 months ended to ended to 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 $ million $ million Adjustment to Revenues Recognised in the period prior to 31 December 2009 438.3 Recognised in the 6 months to June 2010 149.5 Recognised in the 6 months to December 2010 143.1 Recognised in the 6 months to June 2011 199.5 Recognised during July 2011 to 17 January 2012 139.8 Exchange difference 16.5 Total recognised in current period 1,053.7 Adjustment to General and administration expenses Recognised in the period prior to 31 December 2009 16.7 Recognised in the 6 months to June 2010 5.5 Recognised in the 6 months to December 2010 5.5 Recognised in the 6 months to June 2011 7.6 Recognised during July 2011 to 17 January 2012 5.4 Exchange difference 0.8 Total recognised in current period 39.9 Adjustment to Finance costs Recognised in the period prior to 31 December 2009 8.4 Recognised in the 6 months to June 2010 8.9 Recognised in the 6 months to December 2010 10.6 Recognised in the 6 months to June 2011 14.4 Recognised during July 2011 to 17 January 2012 16.8 Exchange difference 0.5 Total recognised in current period 58.6 Impact on profit before tax 955.2 Adjustment to deferred tax 309.9 Impact on profit after tax 645.3 Attributable to: Owners of the Company 562.0 Non-controlling interest 83.3 Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 100 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Interest arising on lapse of prepayment option Under the terms of the current Master Restructuring Loan Agreement MRA the Group had an option to repay a facility at advantageous terms, with lenders approval, before 24 April 2012 and thereby avoid various interest charges.
As Essar Oil is at an advanced stage of exiting the MRA, it did not seek to exercise the prepayment option, which therefore lapsed in April 2012.
As a consequence, the Group has recognised what was previously considered to be contingent liability, arising from interest which now becomes payable on these facilities, together with a reassessment of the carrying value of these facilities based onthe discounted estimated future cash ows.
This has resulted in an additional interest charge of US$321.5 million, less an associated tax credit of US$104.3 million.
The share of non-controlling interest is US$28.0 million in interest charge after tax.
The Group expects to negotiate the terms of exiting the MRA during the next financial year, and will re-assess the carrying value of these liabilities at that time.
Auditors remuneration 15 months 12 months ended ended 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 $ million $ million Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associate for the audit of: Essar Energy plc annual accounts 0.3 0.1 The Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.7 1.5 Total audit fees 2.0 1.6 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group Audit-related assurance services 1.0 0.4 Other taxation advisory services 1.2 0.2 1 Other assurance services 1.2 3.0 Total non-audit fees 3.4 3.6 Total 5.4 5.2 1 Includes fees of US$ 1.2 million in respect of Reporting Accountant services provided as part of the acquisition of the Stanlow renery 2010: US$3.0 million services provided as part of the IPO.
Other taxation advisory services include US$1.0 million related to the acquisition of the Stanlow renery 10.
Tax 15 months 12 months ended ended 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 $ million $ million Current tax 38.1 30.6 Deferred tax Deferred tax before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit and interest arising on lapse of prepayment option India 16.8 86.6 Deferred tax UK 24.1 Total deferred tax 7.3 86.6 Tax expenses before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit and interest arising on lapse of prepayment option 30.8 117.2 Tax on interest arising on lapse of prepayment option 104.3 Adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit 309.9 Income tax income expense 383.4 117.2 Effective tax rate % 33.4 32.1 Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 101 10.
Tax continued A reconciliation of the income tax expense applicable to the profit before income tax at the standard statutory income tax rate in India, as a majority of the companies are in India, to the income tax expense at the Groups effective income tax rate for the 15 months ended 31 March 2012 and 12 months ended 31 December 2010 is as follows: 15 months 12 months ended ended 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 $ million $ million Loss profit before tax 1,147.7 365.5 Income tax Tax at the standard rate of corporation tax 32.6% 2010: 33.41% 374.3 122.1 Surplus on acquisition of a subsidiary 3.4 Deferred tax not recognised 19.8 14.7 Minimum alternate tax MAT, net of entitlement 9.7 25.7 Tax holidays non-taxable income 17.0 15.9 Effect of non-Indian rates 7.4 6.1 Adjustment in respect of prior period 1.5 8.3 Impact of reduction in tax rates 2.9 2.4 Others 10.0 0.2 Income taxes recognised in the income statement 383.4 117.2 The applicable tax rate is the standard effective corporate income tax rate in India.
The Indian tax rate decreased from 33.99% to 33.22% with effect from 1 April 2010 and further decreased from 33.22% to 32.45% with effect from 1 April 2011.
Indian companies are subject to corporate income tax or MAT.
If MAT is greater than corporate income tax then MAT is levied.
MAT is charged on book profits at a rate of 20.0% 2010: 19.93%.
Tax paid under MAT can be carried forward for up to 10 years as a credit against corporate income tax liabilities arising in future periods.
The applicable tax rate in the UK is 26%.
The UK tax rate decreased from 26% to 24% with effect from 1 April 2012.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Deferred tax asset Property, plant and equipment 5.6 Unabsorbed depreciation 146.9 139.4 Carry forward losses 44.0 Minimum alternate tax MAT, net of entitlement 31.3 Accruals 391.2 70.1 Borrowings 81.3 19.9 Provisions 15.1 14.9 Other temporary differences 85.0 35.0 Total deferred tax asset 800.4 279.3 Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment 652.3 541.8 Intangible assets 12.2 20.8 Other temporary differences 2.1 15.9 Total deferred tax liability 666.6 578.5 Net deferred tax asset liability 133.8 299.2 Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 102 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Tax continued The net deferred tax asset liability is recorded in the financial information based on the tax position of each Group company asfollows: 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Deferred tax liabilities 137.6 299.4 Deferred tax assets 271.4 0.2 Net deferred tax asset liability 133.8 299.2 Movement in deferred tax liabilities 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Opening balance 299.4 179.8 Addition due to acquisition Note 27 23.1 Charged to income statement 1.4 86.4 Transfer 146.3 Exchange difference 16.9 10.1 Closing balance 137.6 299.4 Movement in deferred tax assets 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Opening balance 0.2 0.4 Addition due to acquisition Note 27 5.8 Credited to income statement 422.9 0.2 Transfer 146.3 Exchange difference 11.2 Closing balance 271.4 0.2 Deferred tax recognised in Income statement 15 months 12 months ended ended 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 $ million $ million Depreciation and amortisation including impact of unabsorbed depreciation 120.2 153.4 Minimum alternate tax MAT, net of entitlement 33.8 Adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit refer Note 8a 309.9 Adjustment for interest arising on lapse of prepayment option refer Note 8b 104.3 Carry forward losses 35.6 Borrowings 43.7 5.3 Others 101.8 72.1 Total deferred tax recognised in Income statement 421.5 86.6 The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets related to certain unutilised tax losses.
These temporary differences of US$0.6 million 2010: US$0.7 million will expire on 31 March 2014.
The Group has also not recognised deferred tax assets ofUS$19.2 million 2010: US$31.1 million in respect of certain credits for MAT.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised for the above losses and credits on the grounds that it is not probable that suitable taxable profits will arise before the tax losses and credits expire.
The recoverability of the unrecognised deferred tax asset will be reviewed at future balance sheet dates.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised based on future profitability and expected tax benets, and are recognised where the Group believes it will recover the deferred tax assets in future periods.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 103 10.
Tax continued The deferred tax liabilities for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Groups subsidiaries or joint controlled entities have not been recognised as: i the Group has determined that undistributed profit of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the foreseeable future, but rather tax-free returns of capital may be made if necessary: and ii the Groups joint controlled entities cannot distribute their profits without consent of all joint controlled entities partners.
The Group does not foresee giving such consent at the balance sheet date.
The temporary differences associated with investment in subsidiaries and joint controlled entities, for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised, as explained above, amount to US$213.0 million 2010: US$166.0 million.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit after tax for the period attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Operational earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit after tax before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit, interest arising on lapse of a prepayment option and surplus on acquisition of subsidiary for the period attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
As noted in the basis of preparation in Note 1, the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 combined the results, assets and liabilities of the Renery and Marketing, Exploration and Production and Power businesses acquired by the Company under the re-organisation prior to IPO.
During the period, the holding companies of the Renery and Marketing, Exploration and Production, and Power businesses provided cash in exchange for equity in the underlying Group.
To reect this in earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares was calculated on the basis that this cash represented the acquisition of shares at the listing price of 4.20 per ordinary share throughout both the current and the comparative periodpresented.
The Company issued 999,999,980 fully paid shares to its parent company for a total of US$1,491.1 million in April 2010.
At the date of Listing 7 May 2010 a further 303,030,302 shares were issued, and as part of the Listing there was a subsequent issue of 406,991 shares as an over-allotment option on 4 June 2010.
Subsequent to 1 January 2010 the cash and the related equivalent number of shares calculated as though issued at the listing price of 4.20 was as follows: Shares representing: Shares Invested capital at 1 January 2010 907,893,739 Capital contributed in cash in 2010 of US$593.2 million 92,106,261 Issued on IPO 303,437,293 Shares capital at 31 December 2010 and 31 March 2012 1,303,437,293 The shares presented above for 2010 reect capital contributions made to the Group by its parent company prior to IPO in cash and are different to the amounts presented in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, which also include non-cash gifted investments.
The options issued in accordance with the ESOP scheme in 2010 and 2011 did not result in a significant dilutive potential impact.
The impact of the convertible bonds issued in the period is anti dilutive because the interest that would be added back to basic EPS is greater than the relative adjustment to the weighted average number of ordinary shares.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 104 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Earnings per share continued The following table contains computations for basic and diluted earnings per share: 15 months 12 months ended ended 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 Loss profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the Company $ in million 690.3 201.5 Adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit refer Note 8a 562.0 Adjustment for interest arising on lapse of prepayment option refer Note 8b 189.2 Surplus on acquisition of a subsidiary refer Note 27 18.9 Operational profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the Company $ in million 42.0 201.5 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share million 1,303.4 1,177.1 Earnings per share US cents per share basic 53.0 17.1 Operational earnings per share US cents per share basic 3.2 17.1 12.
Property, plant and equipment continued Major items included in asset under construction 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Power plants and coal mines 3,670.4 2,646.3 Expansion of petroleum renery 220.2 1,339.0 3,890.6 3,985.3 Materially all property, plant and equipment held by the Group is subject to securities provided in respect of bank borrowings as described in Note 19.
The carrying value of assets held under finance leases included above is set out below: 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Buildings 20.5 5.1 Plant and equipment 2.3 10.1 Others 0.1 0.2 Total assets under finance lease 22.9 15.4 13a.
Other intangible assets Power sales contract Software Total $ million $ million $ million Cost At 1 January 2010 53.6 7.8 61.4 Additions 1.0 1.0 Exchange difference 2.9 0.3 3.2 At 31 December 2010 56.5 9.1 65.6 Addition due to business combination Note 27 8.8 8.8 Additions 3.9 3.9 Exchange difference 0.2 1.1 0.9 At 31 March 2012 56.7 20.7 77.4 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2010 1.6 3.2 4.8 Amortisation 2.8 1.6 4.4 Exchange difference 0.1 0.2 0.3 At 31 December 2010 4.5 5.0 9.5 Amortisation 3.6 3.5 7.1 Exchange difference 0.7 0.7 At 31 March 2012 8.1 7.8 15.9 Net book value At 31 December 2010 52.0 4.1 56.1 At 31 March 2012 48.6 12.9 61.5 Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 106 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13b.
Goodwill 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Opening balance 133.6 127.5 Exchange differences 16.6 6.1 Closing balance 117.0 133.6 Goodwill relates to the following acquisitions: 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Rening and Marketing India business segment Vadinar renery 89.1 101.7 Power business segment Bhander power plant, Hazira 4.2 4.8 Essar power plant, Hazira 23.7 27.1 Closing balance 117.0 133.6 In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the cash generating unit including goodwill is compared with the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In the absence of any information about the fair value of a cash generating unit, the recoverable amount is deemed to be the value in use.
The Group calculates the recoverable amount as the value in use using a discounted cash ow model.
The future cash ows are adjusted for risks specic to the cash generating unit and are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate.
The discount rate is derived from the applicable business segment weighted average cost of capital and is adjusted where applicable to take into account any specic risks relating to the country where the cash generating unit is located.
Vadinar renery The three-year business plans are used together with long-term market expectations to estimate gross rening margins and other cash ows, which are approved on an annual basis by management, and are the primary source of information for the determination of value in use based on a pre-tax discount factor of 11.49% p. a.
The three-year business plans contain forecasts for renery throughputs, sales volumes for various types of rened products, revenues, costs and capital expenditure.
As an initial step in the preparation of these plans, various economic assumptions, such as oil prices, rening margins, rened product margins and cost ination rates, are set by senior management.
The estimated recoverable amount for the renery unit exceeds its carrying amount by US$12,011.0 million 2010: US$3,332.0 million reecting, amongst other things, work completed at the renery during the period.
Gross Rening Margin GRM is the difference between revenue from rened petroleum products and related cost of crude oil used for their production.
GRM is calculated based on market information and past experience of management.
Prices of the petroleum products and crude are exposed to movement in crude prices on the Nymex, International Petroleum Exchange and Dubai Mercantile Exchange.
If GRM falls by 52% 2010: 26% compared to what is considered for impairment testing, the Vadinar renerys recoverable amount would be equal to its carrying amount.
The discount rate is estimated based on the weighted average cost of the capital of Essar Oil Limited EOL.
If the discount rate increases by 155% 2010: 42% above what is considered for impairment testing, the Vadinar renerys recoverable amount would be equal to its carrying amount.
The Directors do not consider these outcomes to be reasonably likely.
Essar Power Plant The Group uses the long-term power sale agreements for estimating the cash ows, which are approved, based on signed contracts in place and are the primary source of information for the determination of value in use based on a discount factor of10.14% p. a.
These contain forecasts for plant load factor, generation in Megawatts MW, xed and variable revenue, operating costs and sustaining capital expenditure.
The cash ow projections are based on these forecasts which are approved by senior management.
The estimated recoverable amount for the power plants signicantly exceeds its carrying amount in all cases and no impairment is necessary at the end of periods presented.
The estimated recoverable amount for the power plant exceeds its carrying amount by US$382.5 million 2010: US$102.1 million.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 107 13b.
Goodwill continued The discount rate is estimated based on the weighted average cost of the capital of Essar Power Limited EPOL.
If the discount rate increases by 138% 2010: 61.7% above what is considered for impairment testing, the power plants recoverable amount would be equal to its carrying amount.
Bhander Power Plant The Group uses the long-term power sale agreements for estimating the cash ows, which are approved, based on signed contracts in place and are the primary source of information for the determination of value in use based on a discount factor of10.44% p. a.
The estimated recoverable amount for the power plant exceeds its carrying amount by US$651.2 million 2010: US$259.3 million.
The discount rate is estimated based on the weighted average cost of the capital of Bhander Power Limited BPOL.
If the discount rate increases by 293.1% 2010: 187.7% above what is considered for impairment testing, the power plants recoverable amount would be equal to its carrying amount.
Available for sale investments 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Opening balance 41.3 Additions 32.9 Disposals 32.9 37.0 Movement in fair value 2.3 Exchange difference 2.0 Balance as at 31 March Disposals during 2012 include the disposal of debentures of Essar Teleholdings Limited, which were purchased during the period.
Disposals during 2010 include disposal of 3.23% of shareholding in Essar Steel Limited, an unlisted company in which the Essar Group was the majority shareholder.
These shares were sold by the Group to Essar Steel Holdings Limited, a company in the Essar Group, for cash at their fair value at that date of disposal for US$33.4 million.
Trade and other receivables current 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Trade receivables 2,099.0 754.0 Receivable from related parties 609.3 182.6 Tax receivable 20.2 12.4 Sales tax receivable 52.9 Others receivables 72.4 45.7 Prepayments 25.5 28.4 Advances to suppliers 8.2 13.2 Total current trade and other receivables 2,834.6 1,089.2 The credit period given to customers ranges from zero to ninety days.
The Group has discounted its receivables with banks amounting to US$94.4 million 2010: US$144.5 million.
The banks have recourse to the Group in the event of default by the debtor to settle the bills discounted with the lender.
These debtors have been included under trade receivables disclosed above as they do not qualify for fide-recognition.
Management consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to their fair value.
Details of the ageing of receivables are set out in Note 25.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 108 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Trade and other receivables continued Sales tax receivable represents amount receivable by EOL from the sales tax authorities being sales tax collected and deposited for the period when EOL believed it was entitled to the sales tax deferral scheme.
This receivable has been netted against the provision in current period.
For further details, see Note 8a.
Amounts receivable from related parties include US$404.6 million 2010: nil which reects sales tax collected and deposited with the relevant related party.
With the Supreme Court judgment of 17 January 2012 which ruled that the Group could not participate in the scheme these amounts are now recognised as current.
Trade and other receivables non-current 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Receivable from related parties 11.4 293.2 Prepayments 48.8 87.9 Others 37.7 43.6 Total non-current trade and other receivables 97.9 424.7 Amounts receivable from related parties include nil 2010: US$275.1 million which reects sales tax collected and deposited with the relevant related party.
Other financial assets current 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Bank deposits 437.6 498.6 Other deposits 8.4 15.8 Total current other financial assets 446.0 514.4 16b.
Other financial assets non-current 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Bank deposits 27.1 30.8 Other deposits 50.7 21.1 Total non-current other financial assets 77.8 51.9 Bank deposits include restricted cash of US$434.9 million 2010: US$509.8 million.
Restricted cash represents margin deposits with banks against various bank facilities such as guarantees, letters of credit for import of raw material and capital goods.
Other deposits are principally deposits to related parties and government controlled business parties for operations.
Inventories 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Raw material and consumables 1,288.5 708.0 Work in progress 443.9 289.9 Finished products 712.9 126.3 Stores and spares 98.9 70.0 Total inventories 2,544.2 1,194.2 Materially all inventories held by the Group are subject to securities provided in respect of bank borrowings as described in Note 19.
Inventory write downs during the 15 months ended 31 March 2012 of US$4.0 million 12 months ended 31 December 2010: nil were recorded to adjust inventories to net realisable value and recognised as an expense in cost of sales in the period.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 109 18.
Cash and cash equivalents 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Cash at banks 377.8 97.7 Liquid investments 120.9 386.0 Bank deposits 175.3 80.0 Total cash and cash equivalents 674.0 563.7 Bank deposits have a maturity period of less than 90 days.
Liquid investments represent cash deposited in mutual funds which are fully liquid and can be realised without notice.
Borrowings 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Convertible bonds 462.4 Non-convertible debentures 182.4 214.9 Banks and financial institutions 5,786.6 3,524.4 Optionally cumulative redeemable preference shares 114.1 109.8 Working capital loans 879.2 321.6 Bills of exchange 94.4 136.2 Loans from related parties 230.9 213.9 Total borrowings 7,750.0 4,520.8 Less: unamortised debt issue cost 103.5 23.2 Net borrowings 7,646.5 4,497.6 Current borrowing 1,835.4 750.0 Non-current borrowing 5,811.1 3,747.6 Convertible bonds The Group has issued 4.25% US$550.0 million guaranteed unsecured convertible bonds on 1 February 2011.
The bonds are convertible into fully paid ordinary shares of Essar Energy plc.
The bondholders have the option to convert at any time from 14March 2011 to 24 January 2016.
The loan notes are convertible at US$11.0861 per share at a xed exchange rate of 1GBP: US$1.5955.
If the bonds have not been converted they can be redeemed at the option of the Company at any time on or after 15 March 2014 subject to certain conditions or if not converted or previously redeemed will be redeemed at par on 1 February 2016.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 9.5% to the liability component.
The net proceeds of the convertible issue have been split between the liability element and equity and accounted US$107.0 million in equity as convertible bond reserves, representing the fair value of the embedded option to convert the liability into equity, asfollows: 31 March 2012 $ million Nominal value of convertible note issued 550.0 Less: Issue expenses 9.2 Opening liability 540.8 Equity component net of issue expenses 107.0 Imputed liability on issue date 433.8 Unwinding of effective interest rate 49.7 Coupon interest paid accrued 27.3 Closing liability net of issue expenses 456.2 Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 110 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Borrowings continued Secured non-convertible debentures Non-convertible debentures include US$85.6 million 2010: US$92.2 million of debentures issued during 199596 at coupon rates of 5.0% to 12.5% per annum interest expensed at effective interest rate of 10.3%, repayments of which commenced on 30 April 2006 and will continue until March 2027.
Non-convertible debentures of US$96.8 million 2010: US$122.7 million of the Power business issued during 2010 at coupon rates of 10.25% to 11.25% per annum interest expensed at effective interest rate of 10.8%, repayments of which is commenced on 31 March 2011 and will continue until 31 March 2018.
Banks and financial institutions The Group has borrowings under various loan agreements with a number of banks and financial institutions.
These lenders provide the Group with term loans, revolving facilities and letters of credit facilities.
Out of the total borrowings from banks and financial institutions, US$4,101.7 million 2010: US$1,866.4 million are ordinary borrowings at normal bi-lateral terms.
Borrowings from banks and financial institutions of US$1,684.9 million 2010: US$1,658.0 million are subject to a master restructuring agreement entered into by EOL with the lenders on 17 December 2004 the MRA, prior to its acquisition by theGroup.
The MRA provided EOL an option to make early repayments at any time over the term of borrowings.
The interest rates ranging from 8% to 13% per annum are subject to variation on prepayment of any borrowings.
The interest rate variation on the prepayment option has since expired on 24 April 2012.
Borrowings from banks and financial institutions are generally secured pari passu with other lenders of the borrowing company with a first charge on property, plant and equipment, followed by charges over current assets and pledges of certain equity shares in subsidiaries held by the Group.
Interest rates on Indian Rupee borrowings range from 10.25% to 16.0% per annum 2010: 8.0% to 14.5% while the interest rate on borrowings in other currencies ranges from 1.4% to 4.7% per annum 2010: 0.9% to 3.3%.
The Group has undrawn committed facilities as at 31 March 2012 of US$5,287.7 million 2010: US$4,046.1 million with maturities ranging from one to two years.
Details of the maturity and interest prole of the Groups borrowings are included in Note25.
Optionally cumulative redeemable preference shares Optionally convertible cumulative redeemable preference shares OCCRPS of a nominal value Rs.
3,500 million US$68.2million were issued on 18 March 2009 by Essar Power Limited EPOL, a subsidiary of the Group.
The OCCRPS carry interest rate of 0.1% and 8.0% per annum for the first two years and subsequent five years, respectively.
The OCCRPS are convertible into equity shares at the option of the investor in the event of a covenant default or an IPO of Essar Power Limited.
The conversion price will be determined based on the equity valuation of the subsidiary at the time of conversion.
Ifthere is no qualied offering of Essar Power Limited, until the final redemption date, then the Preference shares will be redeemed at 14.5% to 20.5% interest p. a. at the end of the original term based on valuation of EPOL.
The Group has accounted the OCCRPS at amortised cost with effective interest rate of 20.8%.
EPOL has also issued a warrant to the OCCRPS holder for a consideration of Rs.
100, which entitles the holder to subscribe to the equivalent of US$15.0 million of equity shares in EPOL at any time before an IPO of EPOL at an exercise price based on a predetermined valuation of EPOL.
The OCCRPS continues to be held as long-term borrowings.
Refer to Note 22 for further information on the valuation of the warrant provided to the OCCRPS holder.
Working capital loans The Group has a number of working capital loans which are used in the ordinary course of business which are subject to interest rates ranging from 1.4% to 15.50% per annum 2010: 1.0% to 13.75% and are short-term in nature.
Working capital loans are secured by a first charge on the current assets and a second charge on property, plant and equipment.
Bills of exchange Bills of exchange are accepted by banks towards payment of customer invoices and typically carry an interest rate ranging from 10.0% to 11.0% per annum 2010: 8.9% to 9.0% and are settled in a period ranging from seven to twenty-one days.
Loans from related parties The Group has entered into various loan agreements with related parties.
The loans carry a range of interest from 9.5% to 11.0% per annum 2010: 9.5% to 12.0% for further details, refer to Note 30.
An analysis of the movement in underlying net debt including current and non-current is presented in Note 25.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 111 20.
Trade and other payables current 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million 1 Trade creditors 3,069.6 1,494.1 Accrued expenses 83.2 53.5 Accrued employee cost 8.7 8.5 Due to related parties Note 30 187.0 184.4 Security deposits 2.3 2.1 2 Liability towards acquisition of non-controlling interest 98.2 Sales tax liability Note 8a 1,205.9 3 Other current payables 875.9 28.4 Advances from customers 8.8 6.4 Financial guarantee obligations 1.8 4.5 Deferred purchase consideration Note 27 175.0 19.0 Tax payable 12.2 23.1 Total current trade and other payables 5,630.4 1,922.2 1 Trade creditors include bills of exchange accepted by the Group which are payable within 365 days of US$48.9 million 2010: US$18.7 million which carry interest ranging from 8.0% to 13.3%.
Other trade creditors are not interest bearing and are normally settled within 60 to 90 days.
2 US$98.2 million in previous year reected amounts payable in respect of a share purchase agreement signed in April 2010 between the Group and Essar Steel Limited, a related party, topurchase the entire non-controlling interest of 26% in EPOL refer to Note 30e.
3 Includes US$705.0 million of VAT payable by Renery and Marketing Segment UK.
Trade and other payables non-current 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million 1 Trade creditors 66.1 560.7 Security deposits 0.6 0.5 Due to related party 41.7 136.0 Deferred sales tax liability 224.0 Others 10.2 58.8 Total non-current trade and other payables 118.6 980.0 1 Trade creditors includes bills of exchange accepted by the Group of US$66.1 million 2010: US$560.7 million which are convertible, at the discretion of the Group, to a long-term loan facility under existing agreements with banks and financial institutions and carry interest ranging from 8% to 13.3%.
The Group operates a dened benefit scheme for its employees.
The net liability associated with the scheme is US$1.0 million 2010: US$0.9 million included above.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 112 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Provisions Rehabilitation and Onerous Customers Sales tax Rail access resettlement contacts claim due bridge Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Opening 1 January 2010 50.9 50.9 Additions 22.3 22.3 Exchange difference 0.9 2.1 3.0 Balance at 31 December 2010 23.2 53.0 76.2 Of the above: Current 5.0 53.0 58.0 Non-current 18.2 18.2 Opening 1 January 2011 23.2 53.0 76.2 Addition due to business combination refer Note 27 61.9 61.9 Additions 1.3 1,281.0 0.2 1,282.5 Utilised written back transfer 2.8 8.0 1,281.0 1,291.8 Exchange difference 2.7 6.6 9.3 Balance at 31 March 2012 19.0 53.9 46.4 0.2 119.5 Of the above: Current 3.9 5.7 46.4 0.2 56.2 Non-current 15.1 48.2 63.3 Rehabilitation and resettlement An obligation to incur rehabilitation and resettlement costs arises in land acquisition for project purposes.
These costs are insome cases governed by the Policies of State Governments while allowing the industrialist to set up projects in rural parts ofIndia.
These are in the nature of subsistence cost to the land owners who are relocated from their land.
This provision is expected to be utilised over 36 years.
Onerous contacts An onerous contract is a contract in which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benets expected to be received under it.
The unavoidable costs under a contract reect the least net cost of exiting from the contract, which is the lower of the cost of fullling it and any compensation or penalties arising from failure tofull it.
This provision is expected to be utilised over nine years.
Customers claim Refer Claim by customer section of Note 29 for further details relating to the customers claim.
Sales tax due The sales tax due was recognised as a provision in the period but transferred to a liability when the legal appeal process was extinguished.
Refer Adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit section of Note 8a.
Derivative financial assets current 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Commodity swaps 3.6 0.8 Commodity options 7.0 Currency forward contracts 23.1 1.3 Total derivative financial assets current 33.7 2.1 Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 113 22.
Derivative financial liabilities current 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Commodity swaps 0.6 6.2 Commodity options 36.4 Warrants Note 19 3.3 3.3 Interest rate swaps 6.1 3.9 Currency swaps 26.8 2.8 Currency forward contracts 2.0 14.8 Total derivative financial liabilities current 75.2 31.0 The fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using quoted prices.
Where such prices are not available, a discounted cash ow analysis is performed using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing models for optional derivatives.
Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.
Commodity swaps are measured using a forward curve based on quoted futures or forward prices and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.
Commodity options are measured using the same data as the commodity swaps, but also uses volatility derived from quoted option volatilities.
Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash ows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
No derivatives are designated as hedges for the purposes of financial reporting.
Warrants provided to the holder of the OCCRPS were valued through use of a binomial model by reference to forecast performance of the underlying assets.
The principal amount in respect of interest rate swaps held at 31 March 2012 was US$97.7 million 2010: US$99.5 million carrying an interest rate of 3.0%.
Invested capital 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Opening balance 2,301.7 Capital contribution from parent 625.7 Issue of shares to parent 1,491.1 Transfer to other reserves 1,436.3 Closing balance The share capital and share application money of the Renery and Marketing, Exploration and Production and Power businesses was combined and reected in invested capital.
The Energy and Power Groups were acquired by EGL during 2006 and therefore their capital is initially brought into the consolidated financial statements as acquisitions.
Capital contribution represents further capital and share application money invested by EGL in Essar Energy Holdings Limited and Essar Power Holdings Limited.
Issue of shares to parent represents shares issued by the Company to EGL against share application money invested by EGL in Essar Energy Holdings Limited and Essar Power Holdings Limited.
The transfer to other reserve reects the gifts of shares in Essar Energy Holdings Limited and Essar Power Holdings Limited by EGL to the Company.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 114 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Share capital 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company 1,303,437,293 ordinary shares of 5 pence each 99.0 99.0 Since the Company was formed on 18 December 2009, it issued 1,000,000,000 fully paid shares to its parent company foratotal of US$1,491.1 million and issued 303,030,302 fully paid shares at a price of 4.20 in an initial public offering on 7May 2010 with a further related over-allotment option issue of 406,991 shares of 4.20 on 4 June 2010.
The Company has reserved 659,269 and 49,610,000 shares for issue under employee stock option and arrangement with convertible bondholders.
Number Ordinary shares of 1 per share at 1 January 2010 1 Impact of shares split from 1 per share to 5 pence per share 19 Issues of shares to Parent 999,999,980 Issues of shares on IPO 303,437,293 Ordinary shares of 5 pence per share at 31 December 2010 and 31 March 2012 1,303,437,293 25.
Financial risk management objectives and policies The Groups principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise loans and overdrafts, debentures, finance leases and trade payables.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to raise finance for the Groups operations.
The Group has various financial assets such as trade receivables, cash, and short-term deposits, which arise directly from its operations.
The Group is subject to uctuations in commodity prices and currency exchange rates due to the nature of its operations.
The Group enters into derivative transactions, primarily in the nature of commodity option and swap contracts and forward currency contracts.
The purpose is to manage commodity price risk and currency risk arising from the Groups operations.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk, commodity price risk and credit risk.
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below: Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Groups long-term debt obligations with oating interest rates.
The Groups policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of xed and oating rate debts.
The following table provides a breakdown of the Groups xed and oating rate borrowings: 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Fixed rate borrowings 5,441.7 3,463.8 Floating rate borrowings 2,204.8 1,033.8 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, being a 0.5% increase or decrease in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax due to the impact on oating rate borrowings.
31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Effect on loss profit before tax: LIBOR decrease by 50 bps 4.7 3.0 1 PLR decrease by 50 bps 3.3 1.6 1 Prime Lending Rate PLR, set by individual Indian banks in respect of their loans.
The impact of a 50 bps increase in interest rates on profit before tax will be as disclosed above with the exception that gains would be converted to losses.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 115 25.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Foreign currency risk The Group has significant investments and operations in India and the United Kingdom.
Accordingly, its financial state of affairs can be affected signicantly by movements in the INR US dollar exchange rates.
The Group also has transactional currency exposures.
Such exposure arises from sales or purchases by an operating unit in currencies other than the units functional currency.
Foreign currency swaps, options and forward contracts are used to mitigate the risk arising from uctuations in foreign exchange rates.
The carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets and liabilities denominated in different currencies are as follows: 31 March 2012 31 December 2010 Financial Financial Financial Financial assets liabilities assets liabilities As at $ million $ million $ million $ million Indian Rupees INR 1,910.8 4,979.5 1,792.8 4,447.9 United States dollars USD 896.7 6,190.2 638.8 2,733.9 Canadian dollars CAD 24.3 170.1 19.5 185.8 Euros EUR 51.6 105.4 75.5 Great Britain pound GBP 1,143.5 25.6 50.9 1.3 Others 2.7 1.1 2.0 4.9 4,029.6 11,471.9 2,504.0 7,449.3 The Groups exposure to foreign currency arises in part where a Group company holds financial assets and liabilities denominated in a currency different from the functional currency of that entity with US dollar being the major non-functional currency of the Groups main operating subsidiaries.
Set out below is the impact of a 10% movement in the US dollar on loss profit before tax arising as a result of the revaluation of the Groups foreign currency financial assets and liabilities: 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Effect of 10% strengthening of the US dollar against INR on profit before tax: 241.9 185.0 The Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover foreign currency payments and receipts.
The Groupalsoenters into forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the risk associated with anticipated sales and purchasetransactions.
The Group has taken forward cover of US$1,038.9 million 2010: US$910.5 million to hedge against currency risk against movement in INR US dollar.
The impact of a 10% weakening of the US dollar on profit before tax will be the same as disclosed above except that losses would be converted to gains.
The Group does not designate any instruments as effective hedge and thus has no impact on equity arising from a change in exchange rate arising from its financial instruments.
Credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-payment by customers.
The Group is also exposed to credit risk from trade receivables, dues from related parties, term deposits, liquid investments and other financial instruments.
The Group trades with recognised and creditworthy third parties.
Cash, liquid investments and term deposits are held and derivatives are dealt with in banks either international or domestic with high credit ratings reecting the needs of the Group to operate in territories where international credit ratings are limited by the credit rating of the relevant territory.
It is the Groups policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verication procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an on-going basis.
For transactions that do not occur in the country of the relevant operating unit, the Group does not offer credit terms without the approval of the appropriate authority.
The Group does not consider there to be any significant credit risks in respect of related parties.
The Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-payment by customers.
The Group establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables.
Trade receivables disclosed above include amounts see below for aged analysis which are past due at the reporting date but against which the Group has not recognised an allowance for doubtful receivables because there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
No allowance for doubtful receivables has been made in the accounts as at 31March 2012 and 31 December 2010.
None of those trade debtors past due or impaired have had their terms renegotiated.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 116 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of debtors presented in the financial statements.
The Group does not hold any collateral or other credit enhancements over balances with third parties nor does it have a legal right of offset against any amounts owed by the Group to the counterparty.
The Group has assigned certain amounts in respect of its sales tax liability to a related party which has been guaranteed by a counterparty as described in Note 30.
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables is as follows: 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million 030 days 21.1 37.0 3060 days 39.7 11.1 6090 days 25.6 13.2 90120 days 25.4 12.1 120365 days 94.9 90.4 15 years 59.5 31.6 5 years plus 18.3 22.4 Total 284.5 217.8 The aged receivables include US$169.9 million 2010: US$158.5 million in respect of amounts billed for supply of power toGUVNL.
Payments on ordinary ongoing billings are received from GUVNL regularly and are offset against amounts due.
Overdue amounts which are five years or greater are in relation to amounts due for construction activities performed which the Group have been successful in securing award of payment through arbitration proceedings.
The awards have since been challenged by the counterparties.
The amounts have not been provided for on the basis of the arbitration award in favour of the Group.
Liquidity risk Group companies monitor their risk of shortage of funds using cash ow forecasting models.
These models consider the maturity of their financial investments, committed funding and projected cash ows from operations.
The Groups objective is to provide financial resources to meet its business objectives in a timely, cost effective and reliable manner and to manage its capital structure in line with its two internal debt protection ratios.
A balance between continuity of funding and exibility is maintained through the use of bank loans, debentures, preference shares and finance leases.
Out of the Groups liabilities, 44.2% will mature in less than one year 2010: 27.9%.
The maturity prole of the Groups recognised financial liabilities on a gross basis is given in the table below: Weighted average effective interest rate 1yr 15 yrs 5 yrs Total As at 31 March 2012 % $ million $ million $ million $ million Borrowings 8.7 2,455.8 4,681.0 3,006.7 10,143.5 Trade and other payables 3,688.9 88.8 43.7 3,821.4 Derivatives 75.2 75.2 Finance lease payables 6.5 18.2 18.1 42.8 Financial guarantee contracts 1.8 1.8 6,228.2 4,788.0 3,068.5 14,084.7 Weighted average effective interest rate 1yr 15 yrs 5 yrs Total As at 31 December 2010 % $ million $ million $ million $ million Borrowings 8.6 969.3 2,817.7 2,936.2 6,723.2 Trade and other payables 1,893.1 352.1 1,371.8 3,617.0 Derivatives 27.7 27.7 Finance lease payables 11.9 16.1 11.9 39.9 Financial guarantee contracts 4.5 4.5 2,906.5 3,185.9 4,319.9 10,412.3 Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 117 25.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued The majority of the Groups derivative financial instruments mature within 12 months of each reporting end.
The undiscounted cash ows in respect of derivative financial instruments are US$1,700.7 million 2010: US$1,086.1 million.
Note where the amount payable or receivable is not xed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest rates as illustrated by the yield curves existing at the reporting date.
Commodity price risk The prices of rened petroleum products and crude oil are linked to the international prices.
The Groups revenues, costs andinventories are exposed to the risk of uctuation in prices of crude oil and petroleum products in the international markets.
From time to time, the Group uses commodity derivative instruments to hedge the price risk of forecasted transactions such as forecast crude oil purchases and rened product sales.
These derivative instruments are considered economic hedges for which changes in their fair value are recorded in the consolidated income statement.
The Group operates a risk management desk that uses hedging instruments to seek to reduce the impact of market volatility in crude oil and product prices on the Groups profitability.
To this end, the Groups risk management desk uses a range of conventional oil price-related financial and commodity derivative instruments such as futures, swaps and options that are available in the commodity derivative markets.
The derivative instruments used for hedging purposes typically do not expose the Group to market risk because the change in their market value is usually offset by an equal and opposite change in the market value of the underlying asset, liability or transaction being hedged.
The Groups open positions in commodity derivative instruments are monitored and managed on a daily basis to ensure compliance with its stated risk management policy which has been approved by the management.
Set out below is the impact of 10% increase or decrease in base crude and petroleum product prices on profit before tax as a result of change in value of the Groups commodity derivative instruments: 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Effect of 10% increase in prices on loss profit before tax Crude Oil 84.2 11.2 Crack 35.1 0.1 Effect of 10% decrease in prices on loss profit before tax Crude Oil 73.6 11.2 Crack 37.3 0.1 Crack refers to the difference between the per barrel price of petroleum products and related cost of crude oil used for theirproduction.
Capital management The Groups objectives while managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to provide adequate returns for its shareholders and benets for other stakeholders.
The Groups policy is generally to optimise borrowings at an operating company level within an acceptable level of debt.
Equity funding for existing operations or new acquisitions is raised centrally, first from excess cash and then from new borrowings while retaining on an acceptable level of debt for the consolidated Group.
The Groups policy is to borrow using a mixture of long-term and short-term debts from both local and international financial markets as well as multilateral organisations together with cash generated to meet anticipated funding requirements.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is underlying net debt divided by total capital plus underlying net debt.
This ratio is used to monitor debt levels both now and forecast for the future, to ensure an appropriate balance of debt and equity funding.
Total Equity includes equity attributable to the equity holders of the Group as well as non-controlling interest.
The Group includes within underlying net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings net of short-term working capital loans less cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term deposits net of legally restricted funds and funds that have been identied for specic uses.
The current gearing ratio of 63.2% 2010: 43.4% reects the current stage of our business cycle where individual projects are nanced using relatively high levels of debt, but with long debt amortisation periods of up to 10 years.
This is normal for large infrastructure projects in the power and oil and gas sectors and is appropriate for the current circumstances of the Group, but is expected to reduce over time as projects mature.
As these projects enter operations, gearing levels are expected to reduce over time and loans are repaid and or renanced on more attractive terms.
The Directors consider funding requirement on a case by case basis with a focus on the type of project and its stage development.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 118 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 31 March 2012 31 December 2010 As at $ million $ million $ million $ million Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 7,646.5 4,497.6 Less: cash and cash equivalents 674.0 563.7 6,972.5 3,933.9 Working capital loans 879.2 321.6 Bills of exchange 94.4 136.2 Related unamortised debt issue costs 36.7 Short-term working capital loan 936.9 457.8 Other financial assets-bank deposits 464.7 529.4 Lien earmarked for specic uses including restricted cash 702.1 618.6 Underlying net debt 6,273.0 3,565.3 Total equity 3,646.5 4,642.1 Equity and net debt 9,919.5 8,207.4 Gearing ratio 63.2% 43.4% Other financial Lien Cash assets earmarked Short-term Debt Debt and cash bank for specic working due within due after equivalents deposits uses capital loan 1 year 1 year Total Movement in underlying net debt $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Balance as at 1 January 2010 71.4 235.6 238.8 387.6 918.9 2,190.1 2,653.2 Proceeds from borrowings 328.5 1,723.1 2,051.6 Repayment of borrowings 713.3 195.8 909.1 Movement in bills of exchange and other nancing 50.2 29.5 20.7 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 453.8 453.8 Arrangement fees for undrawn facility 50.0 50.0 Accrued interest 39.6 39.6 Change in maturity 144.5 144.5 Change in other financial assets-bank deposits 278.7 278.7 Change in lien earmarked for specic uses including restricted cash 364.1 364.1 Exchange and other differences 38.5 15.1 15.7 20.0 41.9 85.1 69.1 Closing balances as at 31 December 2010 563.7 529.4 618.6 457.8 750.0 3,747.6 3,565.3 Proceeds from borrowings 923.0 964.8 4,151.9 4,193.7 Repayment of borrowings 624.8 906.1 1,060.9 1,342.2 Movement in bills of exchange and other nancing 240.2 240.2 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 128.9 128.9 Arrangement fees for undrawn facility 26.3 1.0 27.3 Accrued interest 425.1 425.1 Change in maturity 877.6 877.6 Change in other financial assets-bank deposits 5.9 5.9 Change in lien earmarked for specic uses including restricted cash 151.5 151.5 Exchange and other differences 18.6 58.8 68.0 59.3 64.8 574.0 570.1 Closing balances as at 31 March 2012 674.0 464.7 702.1 936.9 1,835.4 5,811.1 6,273.0 Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 119 26.
Financial instruments The accounting classication of each category of financial instruments and their carrying amounts has been tabulated below: Carrying amount 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Financial assets At FVTPL Held for trading derivatives 33.7 2.1 Cash and cash equivalents 674.0 563.7 Loan and receivables Trade and other receivables 2,798.1 1,371.9 Other financial assets 523.8 566.3 AFS investments 4,029.6 2,504.0 Financial liabilities At FVTPL Held for trading derivatives 75.2 31.0 At amortised cost Borrowings 7,646.5 4,497.6 Trade and other payables 3,715.1 2,890.5 Finance lease payables 33.3 25.7 Financial guarantee contracts 1.8 4.5 Total 11,471.9 7,449.3 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are estimated at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Other than fair value of derivatives set out in Note 22, the following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: i Cash and short-term deposits, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables, and other current liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities or nature of these instruments.
ii The fair value of loans from banks and other financial indebtedness as well as other non-current financial liabilities is estimated by discounting future cash ows using rates currently available for debt or similar terms and remaining maturities.
The discounting rate ranges from 11.25% to 12.00%.
The Group financial assets and liabilities that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value are derivatives Note22 and AFS investments Note 14.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities are classied as Level 2 fair value measurements, as dened by IFRS 7, being those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the assets or liability, either directly i. e. price or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
AFS investments are classied as Level 3 fair value measurements, as assets held are unquoted.
There were no transfers between categories throughout the periods presented.
The carrying value of all other financial assets and liabilities closely approximate their fair value except for borrowings Note 19 where fair values are estimated to be US$7,290.4 million 2010: US$4,295.7 million.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 120 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27. Business combinations 201112 a.
Acquisition of the Stanlow renery On 31 July 2011, Essar Energy plc through its subsidiary Essar Oil UK Limited purchased the Stanlow renery from Shell UK Limited Shell for a total consideration of US$1,174.0 million including inventory.
The Stanlow renery, located on the south side of the Mersey estuary near Ellesmere Port began commercial operations in 1952, building upon a pre-existing blending and distribution terminal.
It currently has a Nelson Complexity of 8.2 and accounts for around 15% of production from UK reneries.
The Stanlow renery produces approximately 3.5 billion litres of petrol a year, which is one sixth of the UK total, plus it produces around 1.5billion litres of kerosene per year, used for aircraft fuel.
Date of Percentage Name of operations acquired Principal activity acquisition acquired Cost of acquisition Stanlow renery now Essar Oil UK Ltd. Rening of hydrocarbon product 31 July 2011 100% US$1,174.0 million As part of the acquisition, Essar Energy acquired, among other things, all the xed assets, the transfer of most of the land atthe Stanlow renery site including the former Burmah renery site and the assignment of a number of lease agreements including the Tranmere crude terminal lease, the White Oil Docks lease and the Carrington lease, agreements to operate certain chemical assets, the road gantry and the distribution terminal, the commercial bulk fuels marketing business and the local marine marketing business as well as the transfer of staff at the Stanlow renery.
The Group has accounted for the acquisition as a business combination using the purchase method.
The Group has as a result recognised a bargain purchase gain in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2008 on the Stanlow renery transaction on the basis that the fair value of net assets acquired is greater than the total consideration paid to Shell plc by US$43.9 million.
The Directors believe that the Group has acquired the Stanlow renery at a competitive price when compared with other recent renery transactions.
The acquired renery in the past has delivered margins above the International Energy Association Brent NWE cracking margins.
The Stanlow renery is geographically very well positioned.
It provides Essar Energy access to a UK energy route between London and Manchester as well as access into the North West and Central parts of the UK.
The Stanlow renery has significant distribution capabilities supported by extensive pipeline logistics, inland and coastal waterways, roads and rail.
The Stanlow renery is ideally placed to process North Sea and West North African crudes.
The acquisition is aligned with Essar Energys strategy to provide options for the export of products from the Companys high value renery at Vadinar, in Gujarat state, India.
This bargain purchase is recognised in the Group income statement within other gains and losses as at 31 March 2012.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 121 27. Business combinations continued The fair values of the identiable assets and liabilities acquired as part of this business combination as at the date of acquisition are: Fair value $ million Non-current assets Computer software 8.8 Property, plant and equipment 408.9 Deferred tax assets 5.8 Total non-current assets 423.5 Current assets Inventory 878.1 Total assets 1,301.6 Liabilities Provision for untaken leave 1.4 Finance lease payables 20.4 Provisions 61.9 Total liabilities 83.7 Net assets 1,217.9 Cost of acquisition 1,174.0 Net gain on bargain purchase 43.9 The total consideration paid has been satisfied as follows: Components of the cost of acquisition $ million Purchase of renery assets Cash consideration for assets 175.0 Deferred consideration for assets 175.0 350.0 Other adjustments Note a 62.9 Consideration for inventory 878.1 Purchase of computer software 8.8 Total cost of acquisition 1,174.0 Note a: As part of the acquisition, in order to obtain industrial approval, the Group was required to maintain the dened benefit scheme for Shell employees transferring across as part of the acquisition and match the benefit which was currently being provided for those existing employees.
The Group has an obligation to the scheme in respect of benets for future service at the rates agreed, but because this arises on future service only, it is not provided upon acquisition.
Shell provided the Group with a cash payment of US$61.5 million covering the discounted amount of the future cash ow obligation associated with the dened benefit scheme over a ten year period.
In addition a payment of US$1.4 million was also made in respect of untaken leave.
These payments were recognised as a reduction in the purchase consideration.
The resultant impact of the acquisition on the income statement presented within other losses gains was as follows: Income $ million Gain on bargain purchase 43.9 Costs of acquisition 25.0 Net impact in income statement 18.9 The Stanlow renery since acquisition from August to March 2012 has been operating at 70% of capacity and in that period contributed revenue of US$6,353.9 million and has made a net loss of US$63.5 million.
The GRM in the market was low in the period, with the IEA NWE Brent crack margin being US$1.19 bbl.
Against this the Stanlow renery current price GRM is higher at US$3.06 bbl.
The revenue and net loss contributed by the Stanlow renery business for the period ended 31 March 2012, as though the acquisition has occurred at the beginning of that period, are US$11,353.8 million and US$121.1 million respectively.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 122 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27. Business combinations continued 2010 b.
Acquisition of Navabharat Power Private Limited On 12 July 2010, Essar Energy plc, through its subsidiary EPOL, entered in to a binding agreement for the acquisition of a 100% interest in Navabharat Power Private Limited NPPL for a consideration of US$50.2 million.
EPOL initially acquired a 76% interest for a cash consideration of US$31.2 million with the balance to be acquired upon completion of certain project milestones.
After acquisition, the Group also infused further project equity of US$21.6 million.
The transaction was treated as a 100% acquisition on 12 July 2010, as the most significant condition for its completion in respect of obtaining project nancing was satisfied with remaining project milestones being procedural in nature.
NPPL is a 2,250 MW coal-fuelled power plant under construction in Orissa, India.
The project is estimated to cost a total of US$2.0 billion and is being implemented in two phases.
The first and second phases are expected to provide capacities of 1,050 MW and 1,200 MW, respectively.
Prior to the acquisition, NPPL had already obtained certain key regulatory approvals for the construction project including those in respect of environmental and forest clearance from the Ministry of Environment and Forests.
By virtue of the acquisition, Group has obtained a 17.39% interest in the allocation of the Rampia coal block of 112 mmt and a 4.7 mmt per annum coal linkage with Coal India Limited.
The Group has accounted for the acquisition of NPPL as a business combination using the purchase method.
The fair value of the identiable assets and liabilities of NPPL as at the date of acquisition and the corresponding carrying amounts immediately before the acquisition was as follows: Fair value Book value adjustments Fair value $ million $ million $ million Assets Property, plant and equipment 4.0 69.4 73.4 Investment in joint controlled entity 0.2 0.2 Trade and other receivables 1.1 1.1 Total assets acquired 5.3 69.4 74.7 Liabilities Trade and other payables 1.4 1.4 Deferred tax liabilities 23.1 23.1 Total liabilities assumed 1.4 23.1 24.5 Net assets 3.9 46.3 50.2 Share in net assets 50.2 Cost of acquisition 50.2 NPPL did not have any significant trading results in 2010. c. Acquisition of PT Bara Pratama Indonesia PTBPI On 13 April, 2010, Essar Energy plc through its subsidiary Essar Minerals FZE acquired a 99.96% voting interest in PTBPI.
PTBPI holds a 99.99% stake in PT Manoor Bulatn Lestri which own the exploitation license for a coal mine in West Kutai East Kalimantan Indonesia the Aries coal mine.
The mine has an area of 5,000 Ha and JORC compliant reserves of approx.
64 mmt with appropriate environmental approvals in place.
The process for obtaining the necessary forest approvals is currently in progress.
The Group has accounted for the above transaction as an asset acquisition.
The consideration paid in cash for the acquisition of PTBPI and PTMBL was US$118.0 million was recorded as an addition in the period within property, plant and equipment.
d. Acquisition of Essar Recursos Minerals Mozambique Limitada ERMML Essar Energy plc acquired ERMML from Essar Minerals Limited, its fellow subsidiary within the EGL group, in April 2010 for a cash consideration of US$29.9 million.
ERMML holds a coal licence in the Cambulatsitsi, Mozambique and the mine is estimated to have coal resources of approximately 35 mmt.
Essar Energy plc has accounted for the above transaction as an asset acquisition with the total consideration being included as an addition in 2010 within property, plant and equipment.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 123 28.
Interest in joint controlled entities The Groups joint controlled entities are as follows: Economic % held by the % Voting held by the Group Group Country of Date of joint venture Name of the entity incorporation relationships 2012 2010 2012 2010 Mahan Coal Limited MCL India 13 09 2006 50.0 50.0 37.0 37.0 Rampia Coal Mines and Energy Private Limited Rampia India 12 07 2010 17.4 17.4 12.4 12.4 Kenya Petroleum Renery Limited KPRL Kenya 13 07 2010 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Western Nepal Hydropower Private Limited Mauritius 07 12 2011 50.0 50.0 Eastern Nepal Hydropower Private Limited Mauritius 05 01 2012 50.0 50.0 Movement in interest in joint controlled entities is as below: 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Opening balance 32.3 29.0 Further investment 18.1 2.9 Share in loss profit from joint controlled entities 2.3 1.7 Exchange difference 0.7 1.3 Closing balance 47.4 32.3 During the period, the Group has invested US$15.5 million in Western Nepal Hydropower Private Limited and Eastern Nepal Hydropower Private Limited with the objective of pursuing power generation opportunities in Nepal.
The share of revenue, profit, assets and liabilities of the joint controlled entities are as follows: Share of joint controlled entities results 15 months ended 31 March 2012 $ million Revenue 21.0 Losses 2.3 Share of joint controlled entities results 12 months ended 31 December 2010 $ million Revenue 17.0 profits 1.7 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Current assets 22.4 22.5 Non-current assets 48.3 24.7 Current liabilities 16.0 11.6 Non-current liabilities 7.3 3.3 47.4 32.3 Further Groups share in contingent liabilities and capital commitment of joint controlled entities are as follows: 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Groups share in contingent liabilities 20.7 13.4 Groups share in capital commitments 9.3 0.4 30.0 13.8 Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 124 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Contingencies Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities at the balance sheet date, not otherwise provided for in the consolidated financial statements are categorised as follows: 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Sales tax benefit 396.0 Claim by customer 113.5 129.6 Interest payable 119.0 Claims 105.2 33.0 Bank guarantees 169.8 Disputed custom duty 20.3 16.0 Disputed income and sales tax 14.0 16.1 Others 19.3 13.7 Total 668.3 497.2 Contingent liabilities relate predominantly to actual or potential litigation of the Group for which amounts are reasonably assessable but the liability is not probable and therefore the Group has not provided for such amounts in these consolidated financial statements.
The amounts relate to a number of actions against the Group, none of which are individually significant.
Key contingent liabilities have been discussed below.
Interest payable Under the terms of the MRA the Group had an option to repay a facility at advantageous terms, with lenders approval, before 24 April 2012 and thereby avoid various interest charges.
The amount disclosed as a contingent liability at 31 December 2010 represents the potential interest payable from the date of the inception of the facility to 31 December 2010 under the terms of the facility.
As the option has now lapsed, a charge has been recognised based on revised estimates of amounts payable into the future under these agreements see Note 8b.
Sales tax benefit As discussed in Note 8a, the Government of Gujarat has claimed interest on the sales tax amounting to US$396.0 million Rs.
Based on legal advice obtained by the Group, the Directors do not consider it likely that material interest is payable on the outstanding sales tax liability as the Group collected the sales tax and deferred its payment in accordance withajudgment by the High Court of Gujarat in favour of EOL.
As a claim has been made this has been disclosed as a contingent liability.
Claim by customer On 14 September 2005, GUVNL, an entity controlled by the State of Gujarat, led a petition against EPOL with the Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission the GERC alleging that EPOL diverted electricity generated by its Hazira power plant toEssar Steel, a related party, in violation of its power purchase agreement PPA with the Gujarat Electricity Board, whose assets and liabilities were transferred to GUVNL in 2003 and incorrectly claimed certain fuel generation credits from GUVNL between 1996 and 2006.
GUVNL claimed a total of approximately US$309.9 million 31 December 2010: US$353.3 million from the Group.
On 18 February 2009, the GERC ruled in favour of GUVNL for the diversion of electricity by EPOL.
The GERC also awarded GUVNL a refund for generation incentives incorrectly claimed from 14 September 2002 to 29 May 2006.
The GERC, however, ruled that recovery of the incorrectly claimed generation incentives and of compensation for the electricity supplied to Essar Steel Limited in breach of the PPA prior to September 2002 was barred by the applicable statute of limitation.
The revised amount claimed by GUVNL as per GERC order was US$113.5 million.
Both EPOL and GUVNL appealed the GERCs ruling to the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity, New Delhi.
The Appellate Tribunal held on 22 February 2010 that EPOL was not liable to pay compensation for alleged wrongful diversion of power to Essar Steel or for the reimbursement of the annual xed charges.
The Appellate Tribunal further held that EPOL was liable to refund to GUVNL the deemed generation incentive paid on and after 14 September 2002 which the Group had already provided for.
On 29 January 2010, EPOL led a petition before the GERC against GUVNL claiming certain payments due to it under the PPA.
EPOL has made a claim for an aggregate amount of US$77.0 million December 2010: US$87.8 million comprising delayed payment charges, depreciation, foreign exchange variation, interest on debentures, bill discounting charges, interest on working capital and alleged wrongful deduction of rebate by GUVNL.
On 7 March 2012, the Group has led Amended Applications for updated amount of US$123.8 million.
The matter is pending before the GERC.
The amount of receivables under this claim at 31 March 2012 is US$137.4 million.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 125 29.
Contingencies, commitments and guarantees continued In respect of the outstanding claims, the Group does not expect to incur costs or loss in excess of amounts provided in defending its position and recovering its dues see Note 21.
In April 2010, GUVNL led two separate appeals before the Supreme Court against the common judgment of the Appellate Tribunal for stay of the implementation of the order of the Appellate Tribunal.
The Group has led caveats against the stay to oppose admission of the appeals as well as the grants of stay.
Honourable Supreme Court vide order dated 2 September 2011 dismissed the GUVNL appeal for claim for the period up to 14 September 2002 and admitted the other appeal for hearing.
Other claims There are a number of other claims in connection with the Group.
However, management believes that the probability of future liabilities in respect of such claims is remote and no amounts have been provided or disclosed as contingent liabilities over the periods presented.
Contingent assets In June 1998, a cyclone hit the west coast of India which caused extensive damage to the renery site leading to delays in the construction and completion of the renery.
The insurance company and the Company have since decided to settle the claim by arbitration.
During the year, the Company received the arbitration award upholding the material damage claim but rejecting the advance loss of profit claim.
No contingent asset had previously been recorded: hence the award has no impact on the financial statements.
Commitments Operating lease the Group as lessee Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases: 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Payable less than 1 year 3.2 Payable later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 14.6 Payable later than 5 years 90.2 Total 108.0 Finance lease the Group as lessee The Group has finance leases in respect of certain buildings as well as plant and machinery.
Such leases have terms of renewal without any purchase options or escalation clauses.
Renewals are at the option of the specic entity that holds the lease.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: Present value of minimum Minimum lease payments lease payments 31 March 31 December 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million $ million $ million Payable less than 1 year 6.8 11.9 6.3 10.8 Payable later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 20.6 16.1 14.3 11.6 Payable later than 5 years 45.3 11.9 12.7 3.3 Total 72.7 39.9 33.3 25.7 Less: Future finance charges 39.4 14.2 Present value of minimum lease payments 33.3 25.7 Capital commitments The Group has capital commitments of US$5,175.2 million 2010: US$6,489.7 million in respect of contracts entered into for which works are ongoing.
Of the outstanding capital commitments at 31 March 2012 US$1,286.2 million 2010: US$2,484.2 million are expected to crystallise within one year.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 126 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Contingencies, commitments and guarantees continued Export obligations The Group imports capital goods under the Export Promotion Capital Goods Scheme and raw materials under the Advance Licence Scheme to utilise the benefit of a zero or concessional customs duty rate.
These benets are subject to future incremental exports by the Group within the stipulated period.
The Group has following outstanding export obligations: 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Export obligations 990.7 1,334.4 Based on past performance, market conditions and business plans, the management expects to full the incremental export obligation within the stipulated period.
The expiry of export obligations is as follows: 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 As at $ million $ million Later than 1 year less than 5 years 879.0 553.2 More than 5 years 111.7 781.2 990.7 1,334.4 29c.
Corporate guarantees The Group has provided a number of guarantees in respect of companies outside of the Group to third party lenders that were entered into prior to IPO and amount to US$31.5 million 2010: US$151.0 million.
Any potential losses incurred in the future by the Group in respect of these guarantees are indemnified by EGL.
The majority of guarantees provided have been treated as insurance contracts in line with the Groups accounting policies.
Related parties The Group, as discussed in Note 1, is part of the wider group of companies controlled by EGL and its controlling shareholders and as a result has entered into a number of transactions with other wider Essar group entities the Essar Group.
The Group shares many functions and services that are performed by various members of the Essar Group for which costs are allocated across the relevant benefiting entities which have benefited.
The costs have been historically allocated on a basis which the Essar Group believes is a reasonable reection of the utilisation of each service provided or the benefit received by each Essar Group company.
The allocated costs, while reasonable, may not necessarily be indicative of the costs that would have been incurred by the Company if it had performed these functions or received these services as a stand-alone entity.
The Company and EGL entered into a Relationship Agreement, the principal purpose of which was to ensure that following listing, the Group was capable of carrying on its business independently of EGL and its associates.
Balances and transactions between entities within the Group, which are related parties, have been eliminated and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions with parent company EGL, incorporated in Cayman Islands, is the ultimate parent company of the Group throughout the financial period.
The financial statements of EGL are available at its registered ofce at Clifton House, 75, Fort Street, PO Box 1350 GT, George Town, Grand Cayman.
Kettle River Holdings Limited and Copper Canyon Holdings Limited have significant inuence overEGL.
EGL has also provided guarantees to third party lenders in respect of the Group amounting to US$3,060.3 million 2010: US$3,173.4 million.
No significant transactions have occurred with EGL during the periods presented, except those which formed the Group as described in Note 1 and those set out above.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 127 30.
Transactions with entities in the Essar Group The Group has undertaken transactions and has outstanding balances with Essar Group afliates as follows: 15 months 12 months ended ended 31 March 31 December 2012 2010 Transactions with Essar Group companies $ million $ million Sale of goods and services 284.3 193.9 Purchases of goods and services 284.6 224.5 Interest income 33.2 18.9 Interest expense 19.0 15.6 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 1,968.4 1,967.7 Sale of investment 33.2 31 March 31 December As at 2012 2010 Balances with Essar Group companies $ million $ million Trade and other receivables Current 609.3 182.6 Non-current 11.4 293.2 Other financial assets Current 2.5 Non-current 43.9 Advances given for capital work in progress 497.1 534.7 Trade and other payables Current 187.0 184.4 Non-current 41.7 136.0 Loans payable Non-current 230.9 213.9 Finance lease payable 11.4 14.5 Certain related parties have provided guarantees to third party lenders in respect of the Group amounting to US$2,606.1 million 2010: US$2,747.6 million.
The Group has also provided guarantees in respect of borrowings of certain related parties amounting to US$34.8 million 2010: US$65.5 million.
Any potential losses incurred in the future by the Group in respect of guarantees given on behalf of related parties are indemnified by EGL.
Transactions with joint controlled entities The Group has 50% joint control of KPRL Note 28.
During the year, the Group sold goods of US$2.9 million 2010: US$1.7 million to KPRL and balances of US$0.7 million 2010: nil are outstanding.
During the period, the Group has not invested further 2010: US$2.0 million in KPRL.
During the period, the Group has invested US$2.4 million in Mahan Coal, US$0.2 million in Rampia Coal, US$13.2 million in Western Nepal Hydropower Pvt Limited and US$2.3 million in Eastern Nepal Hydropower Pvt Limited.
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on contractually agreed prices.
Outstanding balances at the year end are unsecured and bear interest at rates ranging from 9.5% to 10.25%.
The Group has not recorded any impairment of receivables due from related parties.
An assessment for impairment of related party receivables is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 128 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Related party contracts Essar Global Limited and companies in the Essar Group are party to a significant number of arrangements with the Group.
The Group is reliant on the Essar Group for a number of ongoing and in some cases, long-term, arrangements including customer and supply contracts, transport and logistics services, construction and other services in relation to the Expansion Projects and corporate and administrative services.
These arrangements between members of the Group and the Essar Group for the period 1 January 2011 to 31 March 2012 are summarised below: Shared services The Group leases ofce and other space from certain companies in the Essar Group.
In addition, the Group receives certain services from the Essar Group relating to accommodation, ofce support services, telecommunications, infrastructure and internet connections, travel and related services including management and maintenance services for aviation related activities, technical services and ground handling services, treasury functions, management consultancy, maintenance of greenbelt in respect of the Vadinar renery, technical storage facilities, business centre facilities, managerial support and corporate functions including financial advice, legal advice, and advice on matters related to corporate governance, environmental management, risk and insurance, taxation, aircraft usage and related services, information technology services, payroll processing and other HR services and shared services for accounting activities.
The services are generally provided for a period of between three and seven years, terminable by either party on 30 to 180days notice.
Intellectual property Certain members of the Group have been granted the right to use the Essar name for the purposes of their corporate identities and for operating their businesses worldwide.
The amount payable by the Company under the licence agreement is approximately 1.
The total amount payable by Essar Oil and Essar Power under their licence agreement is equal to 0.25% of each of their net revenues i. e. exclusive of value added tax and excise duty in the case of Essar Power, and exclusive of taxes, duties and crude oil cost in the case of Essar Oil generated by their respective business each quarter, with an increase of 0.15% every year over a period of 5 years until it reaches 1.0%.
The Licensor waived fees of US$2.1 million payable under the licence agreements for period 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2011: however, from 1 April 2011 fees of US$4.2 million have been payable in accordance with the terms of the licence agreements described above.
Power business Construction projects The Power business has a number of contracts with companies in the Essar Group in relation to onshore and offshore engineering, construction, procurement, transportation and project management services.
Power Purchase Agreements The Group has entered, and expects to enter into additional, long-term PPAs with companies in the Essar Group.
Key contracts in respect of operational power plants include: t A PPA expiring in 2026 with Essar Steel for the supply of power from the Essar Power-Hazira power plant to Essar Steel: t PPAs expiring in 2030 with a number of companies in the Essar Group for the supply of power from Bhander Power-Hazira power plant: and t PPAs expiring in 2029 with Essar Steel Algoma for the supply of all the power produced by the Essar Power Canada powerplant.
Key contracts in connection with power plant projects not yet operational include a number of PPAs for the supply of power toEssar Steel and other companies in the Essar Group.
These contracts are each for a period of 25 years from the date ofcommencement of commercial operations of the plant to supply the power under the PPA.
These power plant projects include the Essar Power MP-Mahan project, the Essar Power Hazira-Hazira project, the Essar Power Orissa-Paradip project and the Vadinar Power expansion projects.
The Group has also issued a number of performance guarantees in favour of Essar Steel and other Essar Group companies in respect of its performance under the PPAs.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 129 30.
Related parties continued Water and Fuel Supply Agreements Members of the Group are parties to a number of contracts with members of the Essar Group for the procurement, supply, management and handling of fuel and water needed to generate power.
Key contracts in connection with operational power plants include: t the Group has a water and fuel management agreement with Essar Steel to run concurrently with the Groups PPA with Essar Steel for the procurement and supply of fuel needed to generate the power that Essar Steel has committed to take from the Essar Power-Hazira power plant pursuant to its PPA: t the Group has contracts with Essar Steel and other Essar Companies whereby those companies are responsible for providing the natural gas required by the Bhander Power Hazira plant, to generate the power that the Essar Group has committed to take pursuant to the respective PPAs: and t the Group is party to a contract with Essar Steel Algoma expiring in 2029 or such later date as agreed by the parties pursuant to which surplus blast furnace gases and coke oven gas are supplied by Essar Steel Algoma to the Group in return for power and steam for use at Essar Steel Algomas steelworks.
Key contracts in connection with power plant projects not yet fully operational include: t the Group has a number of long-term agreements ranging from 20 to 25 years for coal supply, coal handling, coal affreightment, to secure the supply of coal to the Essar Power Gujarat-Salaya power plant: t the Group has a 25 year water supply agreement and a 15 year fuel supply agreement with Essar Steel Hazira for the Vadinar power plant expansion project: t under certain agreements the Essar Group has an obligation to provide fuel and water for the power plants and projects at Orissa and Hazira: t the Group has a long-term agreement for coal handling in respect of the Essar Power Vadinar Power expansion project: and t a company within the Group entered into a memorandum of understanding dated 17 October 2011 up to 31 March 2015 for the supply of coal for some of the Indian power plants, with a company in the Essar Group.
Pursuant to the agreed arrangements between the parties and in anticipation of entry into the said agreement, an advance of US$33 million has been paid in relation to this transaction to date.
Other arrangements Operations and maintenance agreement with Essar Steel The Power business has agreed to provide operations and maintenance services to Essar Steel for the 25 MW power plant of Essar Steel located at Visakhapatnam for a term of 15 years from 1 July 2006 at cost plus profit margin of 15% which will increase by a growth rate of 6% on an annual basis.
Service agreement The Group entered into an agreement with an Essar Group company Essar Minerals Resources Ltd for mining consultancy services from 1 January 2012 for a period of one year.
Leases A company within the Group has agreed to lease the site of the Essar Orissa-Paradip power plant from the Essar Group.
Thelease is for a period of 90 years.
Rent payable under the lease will be determined by the parties at the time of execution of the lease.
Essar Power MP has entered into a lease agreement with a company in the Essar Group for the lease of township facilities at Mahan for its employees for a duration of nine years.
Essar Power Jharkhand has also entered into a MOU for the lease of township facilities in Tori, Jharkhand.
Essar Power Hazira, Essar Power Transco and Essar Power Canada have agreed to lease the site for their projects from the Essar Group.
Guarantees Essar Power Gujarat, Essar Power M. P. Essar Power Hazira and Essar Power Orissa have also availed corporate guarantees from Essar Steel Ltd in relation to the Export Promotion Capital Goods scheme for amounts up to 15% of the amount of duty saved on import of the capital goods.
Oil and Gas Business Exploration and Production The Group has contracted with certain Essar Group companies for the hiring of drilling rig services, along with related equipment, personnel, instruments, materials, stores, accommodation and other services at its various exploration blocks.
The expiry dates of these agreements range from 2013 to 2019.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 130 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Related parties continued The Group has also contracted with certain Essar Group companies for laying gas pipelines and for certain engineering, design and procurement and construction services.
Renery Expansion and Optimisation and HMU Hydrogen Manufacturing Unit 2 Projects In connection with certain renery expansion, optimisation and HMU-2 projects, the Group has contracted with various Essar Group companies for engineering services, project management services, project construction, equipment transport and handling services, customs clearance, petroleum handling services, and the supply of equipment and bulk materials.
Certain Essar Group companies are required to provide performance guarantees and corporate guarantees in favour of the Group in relation to each of the contracts for these services.
Shipping and logistics The Essar Group provides the Vadinar renery with logistical services for transporting rened petroleum products by road from the renery to various depots and other locations within India, where those products are ultimately sold.
The contract relating to the provision of these services expires on 31 March 2017.
Petroleum handling The Group has petroleum handling agreements with two Essar Group companies expiring on 31 March 2016, under which the Essar Group provides services for the receipt, handling, storage and dispatch of the Groups crude oil and intermediate and rened petroleum products.
Further, under the terms of the agreements, the Group supplies all utilities to the Essar Group company, including power, water and steam, at no additional cost.
Maintenance and supplies The Group has contracted with certain Essar Group companies to provide maintenance services, including technical services and day to day maintenance to their facilities.
Other arrangements The Group has also contracted with certain Essar Group companies in relation to SAP and other licence implementation and maintenance, shared services, bidding for the purchase of power for Essar Oil, facilitation of procurement of petroleum products and lubricants and providing retail outlet operational services.
Leases The Group leases the site of the Vadinar port terminal operations from certain Essar Group companies under a 30 year lease renewable by the Essar Group at an annual rent of approximately Rs.
The residential township and transit accommodation, used by employees and visitors of the Petroleum Renery, were leased by the Group for a period of 20 years at an annual rent of approximately Rs.
152.7 million US$2.9 million from a related party of the Essar Group.
On expiry of the lease, the Group has an option to extend the lease under mutually agreed terms andconditions.
Essar Oil has also entered into an agreement with Vadinar Properties for the construction of township facilities to house its employees.
Essar Oil has paid an advance deposit of approximately Rs.
630 million US$12.3 million as of March 2012.
Vadinar Properties is required to transfer the premises contracted pursuant to the agreement with Essar Oil on completion byway of either a sale or a lease as may be agreed between the parties.
Sales tax liability assignment Prior to a ruling by the Supreme Court of India on 17 January 2012, the Group believed it was entitled to receive certain sales tax incentives under the Capital Investment Incentive Premier Prestigious Unit Scheme 19952000.
In connection with such incentives, the Group assigned its liability for the sales tax collected from commercial production i. e. 1 May 2008 up to the period ended 17 January 2012 to a related party of the Essar Group and paid the present value in relation to such liability to that entity up to November 2011.
The Group has received a guarantee from an Essar Group company for the assigned amount.
Inter Corporate Deposits The Group has entered into Inter Corporate Deposits contracts with an Essar Group company for Rs.
11,089.9 million US$216.8 million and the amount outstanding against these contracts including interest as of 31 March 2012 is Rs.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 131 30.
Related parties continued Guarantees Essar Global Limited has provided the following guarantees undertakings in favour of a third party lending bank for the benefit of a Group company: t Guarantee in relation to the optimisation of the Vadinar renery which expires on financial closure of the optimisation project: t Undertaking in relation to making the CDR non priority loan to priority loan until the repayment of such loan: t Undertaking in relation to cost overrun, scheduled principal repayment and interest payment until project completion of phase 1 renery expansion project.
On completion of phase 1 renery expansion project, Essar Global Limited will approach the relevant lenders for a release of the undertaking.
t Performance guarantee on behalf of contractors to phase 1 renery expansion project until obligations of the contractors are discharged.
t Guarantee to meet any liability towards repayment or refund of sales tax deferral amounts and any interest or other amounts due in relation thereto, to the extent disallowed nally by a court of competent jurisdiction, as reduced by any amounts used to pre-pay the lenders to the extent required by the lenders.
Other Essar Group companies have provided the following guarantees in favour of a third party lending bank for the benefit of a Group company: t Guarantee in relation to a working capital term loan which expires in March 2016.
5,000 million US$97.73 million has been drawn under this facility as on 31 March 2012. t Guarantee in relation to repayment of certain CDR loans which expires on the last repayment date of such loans.
t Guarantee in relation to a working capital facility which expires renews on the renewal of such working capital facility.
t Guarantee on behalf of the contractors in relation to payment of liquidated damages under the contracts of phase 1 renery expansion project until obligations of the contractors are discharged.
A Group company has also provided a guarantee in favour of a third party lending bank for the benefit of an Essar Group company in relation to repayment of a certain CDR loan.
Such guarantee expires on the repayment of such loan.
Ravikant Ruia and Prashant Ruia, Directors of the Company, together with Mr Shashikant Ruia, have also provided personal guarantees for working capital and term loans taken by Essar Oil.
Essar Power share purchase agreement Essar Power Holding Limited EPH entered into a share purchase agreement, governed by Indian law, dated 6 April 2010 with Essar Steel India Limited, a related party, pursuant to which Essar Steel India Limited agreed to transfer its shareholding of 217,000,000 equity shares, representing 26% of the issued equity share capital of Essar Power Limited, to EPH for a consideration of US$99.0 million Rs.
This share purchase agreement came to an end on 30 September 2011 withno shares being transferred.
A new agreement was entered into on 4 November 2011 with similar pre-conditions but requires, notwithstanding any pre-conditions, both the buyer and seller to consent to the transaction.
Whilst it remains the intention of the Group to acquire this shareholding, as there is no commitment the transaction cannot be recognised as a sale and the previously recognised liability of US$99.0 million, and the corresponding change in retained earnings, has been reversed.
EOL call option agreement Under a call option agreement dated 6 April 2010 and related addendum agreements signed on 30 December 2010 and 11November 2011, Essar Energy Holding EEH, a subsidiary of the Company, had an option to acquire the shares held byEssar Investments Limited in EOL.
In April 2012, the Investments and Finance Division of Essar Investments Limited was demerged into a new entity, Imperial Consultants and Securities Private Limited Imperial, pursuant to a scheme of demerger approved by the High Court of Bombay and the High Court of Madras.
This demerger transferred the call option arrangements and the shares in EOL previously held by Essar Investments Limited are now held by Imperial.
The call option arrangements provide EEHL with an option to acquire the shares held by Imperial in EOL in the period between 1 May 2010 and 31 March 2013 at the higher of: a INR 153 and b the minimum price required to be paid under applicable law, which is currently the closing price of the shares of EOL on the relevant stock exchange on the date preceding the date of the transfer of the shares.
In the event of the option lapsing, the holding cost payable is measured as 10% of the higher of a the average weekly high and low of the closing prices of the share of EOL during the 26 weeks period prior to 1April 2013: and b the average of the daily high and low of the prices of the shares of EOL during the two week period prior to 1April 2013.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 132 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Related parties continued The shares held by Imperial are presently pledged in favour of various Indian banks and the actual transfer of the shares pursuant to the exercise of the call option by EEH will be subject to the release of these pledges by the relevant banks.
In light of the shares being pledged, the addendum agreement extended the vesting period of the option by a further 12 months.
Essar Investment Limited previously waived the holding costs payable as the shares could not be delivered as they were encumbered.
Following the demerger, the shares remain pledged, Imperial has waived the holding costs payable by EEHL asat 31 March 2012.
No liability is accounted for in these financial statements.
Remuneration of Directors and key management personnel Remunerations paid to Directors and key management personnel were primarily in the form of short-term employee benets amounting to US$9.3 million 2010: US$4.0 million.
Subsidiaries % Voting held Economic % held by the Group by the Group As at As at As at As at 31 March 31 December 31 March 31 December S. No.
Company Country of incorporation Principal activities 2012 2010 2012 2010 1 Essar Energy Holdings Limited Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 2 Essar Oil & Gas Ltd Formerly known as Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Vadinar Oil 3 Essar Oil Limited India Renery and 87.1 87.1 87.1 87.1 marketing 4 Essar Energy Overseas Limited Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 5 Essar Petroleum East Africa Limited Kenya Trading 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 6 Essar Oil UK Limited United Kingdom Renery and 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 marketing 7 Essar Oil Germany GmbH Germany Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 8 Essar Oil Stanlow Limited United Kingdom Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 1 9 Essar Syngas Limited Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 2 10 Essar Infrastructure Africa Limited Nigeria Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 11 Essar Chemicals Limited Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 12 Essar Gujarat Petrochemicals Limited India Petrochemical 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 13 Essar Arkema Chemicals Holdings Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 1 Limited 14 Essar Eastman Chemicals Holdings Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 1 Limited 15 Essar Exploration and Production Limited Mauritius Exploration and 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Production 16 Essar Exploration & Production Limited Nigeria Exploration and 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Production 17 Essar Exploration and Production India India Exploration and 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Limited Production 18 Essar Exploration and Production Madagascar Exploration and 100.0 100.0 1 Madagascar Limited Production 19 Essar Oil Holdings Limited Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 20 Essar Oil Cyprus Limited Formerly known Cyprus Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 as Star Sapphire Enterprises Limited 21 Essar Oil International AG Switzerland Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 22 Essar Oil Mauritius Limited Formerly Mauritius Trading 100.0 100.0 known as Pitney Mauritius Holdings Limited 23 Essar Power Holdings Limited Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENTS 133 31.
Subsidiaries continued % Voting held Economic % held by the Group by the Group As at As at As at As at 31 March 31 December 31 March 31 December S. No.
Company Country of Incorporation Principal activities 2012 2010 2012 2010 24 Essar Power Hazira Holdings Limited Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 25 Essar Minerals FZE UAE Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 26 Algoma Power Cooperatief U.
A. Netherlands Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 27 Algoma Power B. V. Netherlands Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 28 Essar Power Canada Limited Canada Power Plant 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 5 29 Essar Power Limited India Power Plant 74.0 74.0 74.0 74.0 30 Essar Power Overseas Limited BVI Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 31 Essar Power Transmission Company India Power Transmission 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 Limited 32 Essar Power Jharkhand Limited India Power Plant 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 4 33 Essar Power Chhattisgarh Limited India Power Plant 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 3 34 Essar Power Hazira Limited India Power Plant 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 35 Essar Power MP Limited India Power Plant 99.6 100.0 73.7 74.0 36 Essar Power Gujarat Limited India Power Plant 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 37 Essar Wind Power Private Limited India Wind Turbine 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Manufacturer 3 38 Essar Power Orissa Limited India Power Plant 74.0 74.0 73.3 54.8 4 39 Essar Power Tamil Nadu Limited India Power Plant 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 40 Essar Electric Power Development India Power Trading 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 Corporation Limited 41 Bhander Power Limited India Power Plant 73.7 74.0 54.5 54.8 3 42 Vadinar Power Company Limited India Power Plant 100.0 100.0 75.7 77.4 43 Essar Power Salaya Limited India Power Plant 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 4 44 Main Street 736 Proprietary Limited South Africa Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 45 Essar Power Nepal Holdings Limited Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 46 Essar Power East Africa Limited Kenya Project Management 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Services 47 Navabharat Power Private Limited India Power Plant 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 48 Essar Power & Minerals S. A.
Limited Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 49 Essar Recursos Minerals fide Mozambique Coal Mine 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 Mozambique Limitada 50 PT Essar Minerals Indonesia Indonesia Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 51 PT Bara Pratama Indonesia Indonesia Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 52 PT Manoor Bulatn Lestari Indonesia Indonesia Coal Mine 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 53 Essar Power Distribution Co Ltd India Power Distribution 100.0 74.0 4 54 Essar Power Solar Limited India Power Plant 100.0 74.0 55 Essar Energy Services UK Limited United Kingdom Service Provider 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 56 Essar Energy Investments Limited Jersey Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 57 Essar Energy Services Mauritius Limited Mauritius Service Provider 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 1.
Disposed of during the year.
Holding reected economic interest including Participating Preference Shares issued by the entity to Essar Power Limited, its direct parent.
Essar Power Limited has issued compulsory convertible preference shares CCPS to Essar Power Holdings Limited and Essar Power Hazira Holdings Limited.
Effective holdings will be 98.2% upon conversion of CCPS to equity shares and impact on its subsidiaries.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 134 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Subsequent events On 4 April 2012, Essar Energy announced that it had commenced commercial operations at unit 1 600 MW of the Salaya I power plant.
On 15 June 2012, Essar Energy announced that it had commenced commercial operations at unit 2 600 MW of the Salaya I power plant, meaning that the full 1,200 MW of Salaya I is now operational.
On 26 April 2012, Essar Oil announced that it had renewed a major product sale and purchase agreement with Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited BPCL.
The renewed four year agreement, running up to 2016, is for supply of diesel, petrol, kerosene and aviation turbine fuel to BPCL from Essar Oils Vadinar renery.
It also entitles Essar Oil to purchase products from BPCL and gives the two companies the option of sharing each others distribution infrastructure.
On 8 May 2012, Essar Oil led a writ petition in the Gujarat High Court to seek direction on repayment instalments and interest payments in relations to its sales tax deferral liability to the Government of Gujarat.
The petition was subsequently admitted by the Gujarat High Court on 11 May 2012.
On 10 May 2012, Essar Energy announced that it had signed a power purchase agreement with Noida Power Company Ltd for 240 MW of contracted capacity from Essar Energys 600 MW coal-red Tori II power station which is under construction inJharkhand state, India.
Under the terms of the PPA, Essar Energy will supply power at a levelised tariff, net of transmission costs, of Rs.
3.27 per kWh approximately 6.2 US cents per kWh.
On 15 May 2012, Essar Energy announced that it had renanced its US$450 million bridge loan which was due December 2012 with a new US$300 million three year secured loan facility and US$150 million of internal cash resources.
Separately, Essar Energy also signed a US$250 million 3.5 year subordinated unsecured loan facility with Essar Global Limited for general corporate purposes.
The US$250 million subordinated unsecured loan facility is being provided on normal commercial terms.
The facility is currently undrawn, but can be drawn in full or in part at any time during the 3.5 year life of the facility.
On 6 June 2012, Essar Energy announced that it had completed the Vadinar renery optimisation project four months ahead of schedule.
This project increased the capacity of the Vadinar renery from 18 mmtpa to 20 mmtpa by converting a redundant Visbreaker Unit into a new Crude Distillation Unit of 2 mmtpa capacity.
On 8 June 2012, Essar Energy plc announced that it has received final Pinjam Pakai forest approval for its Aries coal mine in Indonesia.
This was the final approval needed ahead of the commencement of mine development activities.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012
