86 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Accounting Policies continued a.
Basis of preparation continued IAS 1 Amendment, IFRS 13 and IFRS 7 Amendment are all effective 1 January 2013 and will be adopted by the Group in the accounting year beginning 1 January 2013.
IFRS 10, IFRS 11, IFRS 12, IAS 27 Revised, IAS 28 Revised and IAS 32 Amendment are all effective 1 January 2014, subject to EU endorsement in the case of IAS 27 Revised.
The Group intends to adopt these standards in the accounting year beginning 1 January 2014, subject to EU endorsement.
IAS 19 Amendment : Employee benets changes a number of disclosure requirements for post employment arrangements and restricts the options currently available on how to account for dened benefit pension plans.
The amendment requires the expected returns on pension plan assets, currently calculated based on managements estimate of expected returns, to be replaced by a credit on the pension plan assets calculated at the liability discount rate.
In future years, this change is expected to result in a decrease in finance income on pension scheme assets, recognised in the income statement, and an equal and opposite increase in the actual returns less expected returns on pension scheme assets credited to other comprehensive income.
The Group does not expect this change to impact the Groups net assets.
The amendment also removes the option to include an expense reserve in pension scheme liabilities.
This change is expected to result in a one-off credit to other comprehensive income and a corresponding increase in net assets in 2013, to release the expense reserves previously recognised within pension scheme liabilities.
The amendment to IAS 19 is effective 1 January 2013 and will be adopted by the Group in the accounting year beginning 1 January 2013.
All other standards and interpretations recently adopted by the EU not discussed above did not have or are not expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
For the purposes of these financial statements Filtrona or the Group means Filtrona plc the Company and its subsidiaries.
Information regarding the financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position, and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 18 to 19.
In addition, note 1 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and exposures to credit, market and liquidity risk.
Cash balances and borrowings are detailed in note 21.
The Directors have prepared plans and forecasts for a period of at least twelve months from the date of signing these financial statements.
Based on these, and taking into consideration the risks detailed in note 1, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and accordingly have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
This disclosure has been prepared in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guide for Directors of UK Companies 2009. b.
Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by Filtrona.
Control exists when Filtrona has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain economic benefit from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expense arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the financial statements.
c. Foreign currency Items included in the financial statements of the Groups subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in sterling functional currency of the parent company.
i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date and recognised in the income statement unless hedge accounting criteria apply see policy for derivatives.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average exchange rates.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences on retranslation at the closing rate of the opening balances of overseas entities are taken to other comprehensive income, as are exchange differences arising on related foreign currency borrowings and derivatives designated as net investment hedges, to the extent that they are effective.
Other exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
Differences arising prior to 1 January 2004 are included in retained earnings.
Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 87 d. Financial instruments In accordance with IAS 39: Financial instruments: recognition and measurement IAS 39, interest bearing loans and borrowings and other financial liabilities excluding derivatives are held at amortised cost, unless they are included in a hedge accounting relationship.
See note 15 for separate disclosure of hedge types.
Derivatives are measured initially at fair value.
Subsequent recognition in the financial statements depends on the classication of the derivative as follows: i Fair value hedges Where a derivative is used to hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a monetary asset or liability, any gain or loss on the derivative is recognised in the income statement.
ii Cash ow hedges Where a derivative is designated as a hedging instrument in a cash ow hedge the change in fair value is recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that it is effective and any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Where the underlying transaction results in a financial asset, accumulated gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the same period as the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Where the hedged item results in a non-financial asset the accumulated gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial carrying value of the asset.
iii Hedges of net investment in foreign operations The gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is deemed effective is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
e. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Previously revalued properties were treated as being held at deemed cost upon transition to adopted IFRS.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment or other assets have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment and other assets are periodically reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
f. Depreciation Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their estimated remaining useful lives on a straight line basis at the following annual rates: Freehold land Not depreciated Buildings 2% or life of lease if shorter Plant and machinery 7-20% Fixtures, ttings and equipment 10-33% The assets useful lives and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
g. Leases Rentals associated with operating leases are expensed to the income statement on a straight line basis.
Lease incentives are amortised in the income statement over the life of the lease.
h. Intangible assets i Goodwill Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses.
Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method.
For acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004 goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of the assets given in consideration and the fair value of identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount previously recorded under UK GAAP.
Since 1 January 2010 the Group has expensed costs attributable to acquisitions in the income statement.
88 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Accounting Policies continued h. Intangible assets continued ii Research and development Research costs are expensed to the income statement in the year in which they are incurred.
Development costs relating to new products are capitalised if the new product is technically and commercially feasible and a reliable estimate of the development costs can be made.
All other development costs are recognised in the income statement and expensed as incurred.
iii Other intangible assets An intangible asset acquired in a business combination is recognised at fair value to the extent it is probable that the expected future economic benets attributable to the asset will ow to the Group and that its cost can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets principally relate to customer relationships, which are valued using discounted cash ows based on historical customer attrition rates, and developed technology, which is valued using an income approach.
The cost of intangible assets is amortised through the income statement on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic life.
i. Impairment All assets are reviewed annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested annually.
Other intangible assets are tested if there is an indication of impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of a non-financial asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, being the greater of value in use and fair value less costs to sell, and is recognised in the income statement.
Value in use is estimated based on future cash ows discounted using a pre-tax discount rate based upon the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost on a first in, first out basis and net realisable value.
For work-in-progress and nished goods, cost includes an appropriate proportion of labour cost and overheads.
k. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and xed term investments whose maturities are three months or less from the date of acquisition.
Bank overdrafts repayable on demand form an integral part of Filtronas cash management and are included as part of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash ows.
l. Loans and borrowings Loans and borrowings are initially measured at cost which is equal to fair value at inception and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised in the income statement over the term of the borrowings.
m. Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables carrying value is estimated as the present value of future cash ows less impairment losses.
n. Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
o. Catalogue costs The costs associated with the production and printing of catalogues are expensed to the income statement when access is received to those goods.
Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 89 p. Income tax Income tax in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in prior years.
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases and the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset or liability is settled.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Revenue Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement net of expected warranty claims when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer.
The majority of the Groups businesses sell goods on an ex-works basis, where the Group as seller makes its goods ready for collection at its premises on an agreed upon sales date and the buyer incurs all transportation and handling costs and bears the risks for bringing the goods to their chosen destination.
The Group operates non ex-works terms with customers in some of its businesses, and in these businesses, revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer.
These terms include some consignment stock agreements, where revenue is recognised when the customer removes the goods from consignment stock.
r. Finance income and expense Finance income and expense is recognised in the income statement as it accrues.
s. Segment reporting A segment is identied on the basis of internal reports that are regularly reviewed by the Group Management Committee refer to Corporate Governance Report in order to allocate resources to the segment and assess its performance.
t. Pensions i Dened contribution schemes Obligations for contributions to dened contribution pension schemes are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
ii Dened benefit schemes The significant pension schemes in Europe and the US have been accounted for on a dened benefit basis.
The net obligations in respect of dened benefit pension schemes are calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of Filtronas obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualied independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses that have arisen are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The amounts charged to operating profit are the current service cost, past service cost and gains and losses on settlement and curtailments.
The expected increase in the present value of scheme liabilities is included within finance expense and the expected return on scheme assets is included within finance income.
90 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Accounting Policies continued u. Share-based payments continued Filtrona operates equity-settled, share-based incentive plans.
A charge is made in the income statement based on the fair value of option awards using the Monte Carlo or binomial valuation models and relevant quoted share price information with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period between grant and vesting date of the options.
The amount recognised as an expense will be adjusted to reect the actual number of share options that vest with the exception of options that fail to vest because market-based conditions are not met.
v. One-off items in the consolidated income statement The exceptional operating items below are separated from other items by virtue of their size and incidence.
They are shown as a separate line item within operating profit on the face of the income statement in order for the reader to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and performance.
These items exclude amortisation of acquired intangible assets which are also presented separately in the income statement.
i Acquisition fees In 2012, Filtrona incurred significant one-off costs in professional fees as a result of the acquisitions of the entire issued share capital of Securit World Ltd, Jae Yong Co. Ltd, John R. Lyman Company and Big Blue Properties LLC.
In 2011, Filtrona likewise incurred significant one-off costs in professional fees as a result of the acquisitions of the entire issued share capital of Richco, Inc. and the assets and business of Reid Supply Company.
ii Acquisition integration and restructuring costs Costs relating to the integration and restructuring of acquired businesses into the Group.
iii Other exceptional items In 2012, this represents a release of pension obligations in the Enitor business and costs arising from further reconguration of the Group.
In 2011, other exceptional costs represented insurance proceeds received net of associated costs, the loss on disposal of the Groups shares in FractureCode Corporation ApS and reorganisation costs within certain of the Groups divisions.
w. Investment in own shares The shares held in the Filtrona Employee benefit Trust for the purpose of fullling obligations in respect of share option plans are treated as belonging to the Company and are deducted from its retained earnings.
The cost of shares held directly treasury shares are also deducted from retained earnings.
Provisions A provision is recognised when there is a probable legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and a reliable estimate can be made of the outow of resources that will be required to settle the obligation.
The outow is the present value of managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
Net debt Net debt is dened as interest bearing loans and borrowings, net of cash and cash equivalents.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders of the Company final dividend or paid interim dividend.
Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 91 Critical Accounting Judgements and Estimates The following provides information on those policies that management considers critical because of the level of judgement and estimation required which often involves assumptions regarding future events which can vary from what is anticipated.
The Directors believe that the financial statements reect appropriate judgements and estimates and provide a true and fair view of Filtronas performance and financial position.
i Pensions Filtrona accounts for its dened benefit pension schemes in accordance with IAS 19.
The application of IAS 19 requires the exercise of judgement in relation to the assumptions used and for each assumption there is a range of possible outcomes see note 18.
In consultation with Filtronas actuaries, management decides the point within those ranges that most appropriately reects Filtronas circumstances.
Small changes to these assumptions can have a significant impact on valuations.
The Group performs a sensitivity analysis for the significant assumptions used in determining post-employment costs and liabilities, as detailed in note 18. ii Intangible assets IFRS 3 requires the identication of acquired intangible assets as part of a business combination.
The methods used to value such intangible assets require the use of estimates.
Future results are impacted by the amortisation periods adopted and changes to the estimated useful lives would result in different effects on the income statement and balance sheet.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment, along with the nite lived intangible assets and other assets of the Groups cash generating units.
Tests for impairment are based on discounted cash ows and assumptions including discount rates, timing and growth prospects which are inherently subjective.
The Group performs various sensitivity analyses in respect of the tests for impairment, as detailed in note 9.
The useful lives of the Groups nite lived intangible assets are reviewed following the tests for impairment annually.
iii Taxation Accruals for tax contingencies require management judgements and estimates in respect of tax audit issues and exposures in each of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Management is also required to make an estimate of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the temporary differences which arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments.
The Group performs appropriate sensitivity analysis in respect of taxation judgements that are materially sensitive as they arise.
iv Provisions Filtronas provisions are managements best estimate of exposure, in cases where there is a probable legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, based on currently available information.
By their nature these provisions are judgemental.
The Group performs appropriate sensitivity analysis in respect of provision judgements that are materially sensitive as they arise.
v Depreciation Property, plant and equipment represents a significant proportion of the asset base of the Group.
Therefore, the estimates and assumptions made to determine their carrying value and related depreciation are critical to the Groups financial position and performance.
The charge in respect of depreciation is derived after determining an estimate of an assets expected useful life and the expected residual value at the end of its life.
Decreasing an assets expected life or its residual value would result in a higher depreciation charge in the income statement.
The useful lives of the Groups assets are determined by management at the time the asset is acquired and reviewed at least annually for appropriateness.
The lives are based on historical experience with similar assets as well as anticipation of future events, which may impact their life, such as changes in technology.
Historically, changes in useful lives and residual values have not resulted in material changes to the Groups depreciation charge.
