Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 85 Accounting Policies a.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union EU in accordance with EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 adopted IFRS and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its individual company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP : these are presented on pages 121 to 125.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for derivatives which are stated at fair value and retirement benefit obligations which are valued in accordance with IAS 19: Employee benets.
The preparation of financial statements that conform with adopted IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expense during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and future periods if relevant.
The accounting policies used in the preparation of these financial statements are detailed below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented.
The following standards were adopted by the Group during the year with no significant impact on its consolidated results, financial position or disclosures: IAS 12 Amendment : Income taxes introduced a presumption, for deferred tax purposes, that recovery of the carrying amount of an investment property will normally be through sale.
The following standards or interpretations have not yet been adopted by the Group.
The Group does not currently believe the adoptions of these standards or interpretations would have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group: IAS 1 Amendment : Presentation of financial statements amends how components of other comprehensive income are presented.
The amendments require the grouping of items of other comprehensive income into items that might be reclassied to the income statement in subsequent periods and items that will not be reclassied to the income statement in subsequent periods.
IFRS 7 Amendment : Financial instruments: Disclosures amends disclosure requirements to require information about all recognised financial instruments that are set off in accordance with paragraph 42 of IAS 32.
IAS 32 Amendment : Financial instruments: Presentation provides clarification on the application of offsetting rules.
IFRS 9: Financial instruments not yet endorsed by the EU the primary impact of which is to remove the multiple classication and measurement models for financial assets required by IAS 39 and introduce a model that has only two classication categories: amortised cost and fair value.
IFRS 10: Consolidated financial statements replaces the guidance of control and consolidation in IAS 27 and SIC 12: Consolidation special purpose entities.
The core principle that a consolidated entity presents a parent and its subsidiaries as if they were a single entity remains unchanged, as do the mechanics of consolidation.
IFRS 11: Joint arrangements requires joint arrangements to be accounted for as a joint operation or as a joint venture depending on the rights and obligations of each party to the arrangement.
Proportionate consolidation for joint ventures will be eliminated and equity accounting will be mandatory.
It is anticipated that the application of the standard will result in an immaterial decrease in net sales, total assets and total liabilities of the Group but have no impact on the Groups net profit or net assets.
IAS 28 Revised : Associates and joint ventures which is to include consequential amendments resulting from the introduction of IFRS 11.
IFRS 12: Disclosure of interests in other entities requires enhanced disclosures of the nature, risks and financial effects associated with the Groups interests in subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements and unconsolidated structured entities.
IAS 27 Revised : Separate financial statements not yet endorsed by the EU makes revisions to the requirements for separate financial statements prepared by a parent or an investor in a joint venture or associate.
IFRS 13: Fair value measurement explains how to measure fair value and aims to enhance fair value disclosures.
The standard does not change the measurement of fair value but codifies it in one place.
