Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 100 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1.
Basis of preparation and principal accounting policies Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC the Company was incorporated and registered under the laws of England and Wales on 8 December 2006 and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Companys registered office and domicile is 16St.
Jamess Street, London, SW1A 1ER, United Kingdom.
The Consolidated financial statements the financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2012 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries the Group and the Groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been drawn up on the basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 except where new policies have been applied.
New accounting policies and pronouncements and the effects of these policies have been outlined below.
The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC, as adopted by the European Union EU, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis see Corporate governance report.
The financial statements have also been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified for the revaluation of certain assets and liabilities as further explained in the respective accounting policies.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgements or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed in note 2.
Comparative information Where the Group has changed the presentational format of the Consolidated financial statements to further improve the comparability of its results, comparative figures have been changed accordingly.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures New and amended standards adopted for 2012 Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets effective for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
The amendment requires additional disclosure about financial assets that have been transferred but not derecognised.
The amendment also requires disclosures about the entitys continuing involvement in derecognised assets to enable the users to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, such involvement.
The amendment has no impact to the Group.
New standards, amendments to standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective and not early adopted IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements endorsed by the EU with effective date of 1 January 2014 IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
The changes introduced by IFRS 10 will require management to exercise significant judgement to determine which entities are controlled and therefore are required to be consolidated by the Company.
IFRS 11, Joint arrangements endorsed by the EU with effective date of 1 January 2014 IFRS 11 removes the option to account for jointly controlled entities JCEs using proportionate consolidation.
Instead, JCEs that meet the definition of a joint venture must be accounted for using the equity method.
IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities endorsed by the EU with effective date of 1 January 2014 IFRS 12 includes all of the disclosures that were previously in IAS 27 related to Consolidated financial statements, as well as all of the disclosures that were previously included in IAS 31 and IAS 28.
These disclosures relate to an entitys interest in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured entities.
IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement endorsed by the EU with effective date of 1 January 2013 IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not change when an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted.
IAS 19, Employee Benefits revised 2011 effective 1 January 2013 endorsed by the EU with effective date 1 January 2013 IAS 19 makes significant changes to the recognition and measurement of defined benefit pension expense and termination benefits, and to the disclosures for all employee benefits.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 101 IAS 27, Separate financial statements revised 2011 endorsed by the EU with effective date of 1 January 2014 As a consequence of the new IFRS 10, a portion of IAS 27 has been replaced that addresses the accounting for Consolidated financial statements.
The new IAS 27 only deals with separate financial statements.
IAS 28, Investments in associates and joint ventures revised 2011 endorsed by the EU with effective date of 1 January 2014 IAS 28 has been renamed as a consequence of the new IFRS 11 and IFRS 12.
The revised IAS 28 describes the application of the equity method to investments in joint ventures in addition to associates.
Amendments to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities endorsed by the EU with effective date of 1 January 2014 The amendments clarify the meaning of currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off.
The amendments also clarify the application of the IAS 32 offsetting criteria to settlement systems which apply gross settlement mechanisms that are not simultaneous.
IAS 12, Income Taxes amendment Deferred taxes: Recovery of Underlying Assets endorsed by the EU with effective date of 1 January 2013 The amendment clarifies that the deferred tax on non-depreciable assets that are measured using the revaluation model in IAS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment should always be measured on a sale basis.
IFRIC 20, Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine endorsed by the EU with effective date of 1 January 2013 IFRIC 20 applies to waste removal stripping costs incurred in surface mining activity, during the production phase of the mine.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of this interpretation but does not expect the transition to this new interpretation to significantly impact the financial results.
This interpretation addresses recognition of production stripping costs as an asset, initial measurement of the stripping activity asset and subsequent measurement of the stripping activity asset and states the following: Initial measurement: Stripping activity asset is measured at cost: this being the accumulation of costs directly incurred to perform the stripping activity that improves access to the identified component of ore, plus an allocation of directly attributable overhead costs.
Subsequent recognition: The stripping activity asset shall be depreciated or amortised on a systematic basis, over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body that becomes more accessible as a result of the stripping activity.
The units of production method shall be applied unless another method is more appropriate.
Annual improvements to IFRS 20092011 endorsed by the EU with effective date of 1 January 2013 The Group intends to adopt these new and amended standards for annual periods beginning on or after the effective dates as endorsed by the EU.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the above listed amendments and new standards on its financial statements.
Basis of consolidation The financial statements of the Group include the consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December 2012 and the Groups share of joint ventures and associates as described below.
i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities, over which the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities, generally accompanying, directly or indirectly, an interest of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Company acquisition date and are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between subsidiaries are eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures have been adjusted where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Non-controlling interest is the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the Company.
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an  basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised amounts of acquirees identifiable net assets.
ii Joint ventures Joint ventures are all entities over which the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and requiring unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions.
The Group has elected to use the equity method to account for interests in jointly controlled entities, which are disclosed as joint ventures in the financial statements.
Under this method of accounting, the investment is initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in joint ventures includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 102 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1 1.
B. Ba as si is o s of p f pr re ep pa ar ra at ti io on a n an nd p d pr ri in nc ci ip pa al ac l acc co ou un nt ti in ng p g po ol li ic ci ie es s c co on nt tinu inue ed d The Groups share of its joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of postacquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
The cumulative postacquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unlessit has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint ventures unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
iii Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but which is not a subsidiary or jointly controlled entity.
The results, assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting as described above for jointly controlled entities.
Functional and presentational currency All amounts in these financial statements are presented in millions of US dollars, unless otherwise stated.
The functional currency for major entities in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entities operate.
The following additional factors are considered in determining the functional currency of a foreign operation: Whether the activities of the foreign operation are carried out as an extension of the reporting entity, rather than being carried out with a significant degree of autonomy: Whether transactions with the reporting entity are a high or a low proportion of the foreign operations activities: Whether cash flows from the activities of the foreign operation directly affect the cash flows of the reporting entity and are readily available for remittance to it: and Whether cash flows from the activities of the foreign operation are sufficient to service existing and normally expected debt obligations without funds being made available by the reporting entity.
The functional currency of the significant operating entities is either the Kazakhstani tenge KZT, or the Russian rouble RUB or Brazilian real BRL.
For the Sales and Marketing entities and significant African operations, the functional currency is the US dollar US$.
The functional currency of the Company is the US$.
The following table shows, for the years indicated, the principal rates of exchange used per US$1.00.
As at 31 December Average rate 2012 2011 2012 2011 British pound 0.62 0.65 0.63 0.62 Kazakhstani tenge 150.74 148.40 149.11 146.62 Russian rouble 30.39 32.19 31.04 29.32 Brazilian real 2.04 1.88 1.95 1.67 Foreign currency translation Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated to the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction, unless hedge accounting applies in which case the contract rate is used.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions and the translation of monetary assets and liabilities are taken to the income statement, except when recognised in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of thetransaction.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 103 Translation from functional to presentational currency The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentational currency are translated into the presentational currency as follows: Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions : All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity: and Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate at the date of acquisition.
When a subsidiary is disposed of through sale, liquidation, repayment of share capital or abandonment of all, or part of, that entity, the exchange differences deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement.
Revenue recognition A significant portion of production is sold under contracts of sale of goods.
Revenue from sale of goods is only recognised on individual shipments when persuasive evidence exists that the following criteria are satisfied: The significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer.
If it is arranged that the goods are transported to a specified location, revenue is recognised when the goods are passed to the customer at the destination point.
The revenue from sale of many products is subject to adjustment based on an inspection of the product by the customer.
In such cases, revenue is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Groups best estimate of the quantity and quality of the product.
Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of quantity and quality of the product is recorded in revenue once they have been determined: No continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership or effective control over the goods sold has been retained: The amount of revenue and respective costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably: and It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group.
Revenue from sale of services is recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered by reference to the stage of completion of the specific transaction, assessed on the basis of the actual services provided, as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
Revenues are measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
When the fair value of goods or services received in a barter transaction involving dissimilar items cannot be measured reliably, the revenue is measured at the fair value of the goods or service given up.
Revenues are shown net of VAT and discounts.
Employee benefits Defined benefit plans The Group provides long-term employee benefits to employees before, on and after retirement, in accordance with labour union agreements in Kazakhstan, Russia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
The agreements typically provide for one-off retirement payments, financial aid for employees disability, significant anniversaries and funeral aid.
The entitlement to some benefits is usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
Such benefits are valued consistent with an unfunded defined benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods is discounted to determine the present value.
Since Kazakhstan, Russia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo do not have an extensive market of high quality corporate bonds, the market yields on government bonds are used as a basis for discount rates.
The calculation is performed annually internally or by a qualified, independent actuary depending on the complexity of computations.
The expected costs of the benefits associated with one-off retirement payments are accrued over the period of employment using the same accounting methodology as used for defined benefit post-employment plans.
This means that the difference between the fair value of the plan assets if any and the present value of the defined liabilities obligations is recognised as an asset or liability on the balance sheet.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are taken to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
For this purpose, actuarial gains and losses comprise both the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments arising because of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
Other movements in the net surplus or deficit are recognised in the income statement, including current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any curtailments or settlements.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 104 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1 1.
B. Ba as si is o s of p f pr re ep pa ar ra at ti io on a n an nd p d pr ri in nc ci ip pa al ac l acc co ou un nt ti in ng p g po ol li ic ci ie es s c co on nt tinu inue ed d Defined contribution plans The Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised in the income statement as an employee benefit expense in the period in which they are due.
Payroll expense and related contributions Wages, salaries and social insurance funds, paid annual leave and sick leave, bonuses and non-monetary benefits are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered by the employees of the Group.
On behalf of its employees, the Group pays those statutory pension and post-employment benefit amounts prescribed by the legal requirements of the countries in which it operates.
Thesepayments are expensed as incurred.
Share-based payments The Group has equity-settled, share-based compensation plans, under which the Group receives services from qualifying employees as consideration for equity instruments.
The employee services received in exchange for the grant of the equity-settled payments are measured at the fair value of the equity granted and are recognised as expenses, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards subject to the Groups estimate of the number of awards which will lapse prior to vesting.
The amount recognised in the income statement as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards that vest.
The fair values of equity-settled payments are measured at the dates of grant using a Monte-Carlo pricing model for the Long Term Incentive Plan and Black-Scholes option pricing model for the Deferred Share Plan.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of awards that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact on the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with corresponding adjustment to equity.
If the Group cancels or settles a grant of equity instruments during the vesting period, it treats this as an acceleration of vesting and recognises immediately the amount that otherwise would have been recognised for services received over the remainder of the vesting period.
Any payment made to a counterparty on the cancellation or settlement of a grant of equity instruments, even if this occurs after the vesting date, is accounted for as a repurchase of an equity interest i. e. as a deduction from equity, except to the extent that the payment exceeds the fair value of the equity instruments repurchased, measured at the repurchase date.
Any such excess is recognised as an expense.
Finance income and cost Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested and gains and income on investment and trading securities.
Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, the accumulation of interest on provisions, interest expense from the unwinding of discount on provisions for asset retirement obligations and losses on the revaluation and disposal of investments designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Finance income and costs include foreign exchange gains and losses that relate mainly to loans receivable, borrowings, and term deposits more than three months.
Interest income and expenses are recognised on a time proportion basis, using the effective interest method.
All interest and other costs incurred in connection with borrowings are expensed as incurred as part of financial expenses unless incurred on borrowings to finance the acquisition of a qualifying asset.
Borrowings to finance the acquisition of a qualifying asset are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use.
Borrowing costs which relate to borrowings made specifically to fund the acquisition of a qualifying asset are fully capitalised.
To the extent that funds are borrowed generally by the Group, the capitalisation rate used is based upon only those incremental borrowings utilised for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset.
Income tax The income tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Kazakhstan Excess Profits Tax, being a tax on income, forms part of the income tax expense.
Current tax expense is the amount of tax estimated to be payable or recoverable in respect of the taxable income or loss of a period, as well as adjustments to estimates in respect of previous periods.
It is calculated on the basis of the tax laws and rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax represents the amount of income taxes payable or recoverable in future periods in respect of temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements, subject to the exceptions below.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 105 Deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax assets to be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only if there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and the deferred tax assets and liabilities are intended to be settled either simultaneously or on a net basis.
Exploration and evaluation Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources include the search for mineral resources after the Group company has obtained legal rights to explore in a specific area, as well as the determination of the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting mineral resources.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure related to an area of interest are written off as incurred until the management conclude that it is probable that future costs will be recovered through successful development and exploitation of the area of interest, or alternatively through its sale, from which point they are carried forward as an asset in the balance sheet and are included as a component of property, plant and equipment at cost less impairment charges.
Capitalised costs include costs directly related to exploration and evaluation activities in the relevant area of interest.
General and administrative costs are allocated to an exploration or evaluation asset only to the extent that those costs can be related directly to operational activities in the relevant area of interest.
All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is assessed for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist.
For the purpose of assessing impairment, the exploration and evaluation assets subject to testing are grouped with relevant existing cashgenerating units of operating mines that are located in the same geographical region.
Where the assets are not associated with a specific cash-generating unit, the recoverable amount is assessed for the specific exploration area.
Any impairment loss is recognised as an expense in accordance with the policy on impairment of non-financial assets.
Identifiable exploration and evaluation assets acquired as part of a business combination are recognised as assets at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment loss.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset, costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use and estimated future cost of closure and restoration of the asset.
Depreciation is recorded over the useful life of the asset, or over the expected remaining life of the mine if shorter, as follows: Buildings including mining premises : 10 to 60 years on a straight-line basis: Mining assets including mineral rights : on a units of production basis: Plant and equipment: 5 to 30 years on a straight-line basis: and Motor vehicles: 5 to 30 years on a straight-line basis.
The residual value of an asset is nil if the Group expects to use the asset until the end of its physical life.
Estimates of residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually, and any change in estimate is taken into account in the determination of future depreciation charges.
The individual significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment components, whose useful lives are different from the useful life of the asset as a whole, are depreciated individually, applying depreciation rates reflecting their anticipated useful lives.
The cost of replacing major parts or components of property, plant and equipment items is capitalised and the replaced part is retired.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 106 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1 1.
B. Ba as si is o s of p f pr re ep pa ar ra at ti io on a n an nd p d pr ri in nc ci ip pa al ac l acc co ou un nt ti in ng p g po ol li ic ci ie es s c co on nt tinu inue ed d Subsequent costs are included in an assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Specialised spare parts and servicing equipment with a significant initial value and a useful life of more than one year are recognised as items of property, plant and equipment.
Other spare parts and servicing-related equipment are recognised as inventories and accounted for in the income statement on utilisation.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount of the assets disposed of and are recognised in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist, in accordance with the impairment policy below.
i Mining assets Once a project has been established as commercially viable, capitalised expenditures are transferred from exploration and evaluation to mining assets.
In addition, mining assets include mineral rights, expenditure incurred to establish or expand production capacity, costs to conduct mining construction and mining capital works, as well as costs arising from mining preparation works during the development or mine reconstruction phase.
Development expenditure incurred by, or on behalf of, the Group is accumulated separately for each area of interest in which economically recoverable resources have been identified.
Such expenditure comprises costs directly attributable to the construction of a mine and the related infrastructure, including the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
When further development expenditure is incurred in respect of a mining asset after the commencement of production, such expenditure is carried forward as part of mining assets when it is probable that additional future economic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the Group.
Otherwise such expenditure is recognised as a cost of production.
Once a project has been fully commissioned, depreciation is charged using the units of production method, based on proved and probable reserves, with separate calculations being made for each area of interest.
The units of production basis results in a depreciation charge proportional to the depletion of proved and probable reserves.
Mining assets are included within the category Buildings and mining assets of property, plant and equipment.
ii Assets under construction Assets under construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
Self-constructed assets include the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of allocated overheads.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate asset category.
Assets under construction are not depreciated.
Depreciation commences on the date when the assets are available for use.
iii Stripping costs Stripping costs comprise the removal of overburden and other waste products from a mine.
Stripping costs incurred in the development of mines and open pits before production commences are capitalised as part of the cost of constructing the mines and open pits, and depreciated using the unit of production method over the lives of the mines or open pits.
Stripping costs incurred during the production phase of operations are treated as a production cost that forms part of the cost of inventory.
Impairment The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment and all other non-financial assets are reviewed for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist.
An intangible asset that has indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
The Group tests an asset or cash-generating unit CGU for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying amount.
When impairment review is undertaken, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
A CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Value in use is the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant CGU in its current condition.
Value in use is determined by applying assumptions specific to the Groups continued use of the asset or CGU and does not take into account future developments.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 107 The estimates used for impairment reviews to determine value in use are based on detailed mine plans and operating budgets.
Future cash flows are based on managements best estimates of: The quantities of the reserves and mineral resources for which there is a high degree of confidence of economic extraction: Future production levels: Future commodity prices: and Future cash costs of production, capital expenditure related to construction in progress and development projects that are not yet completed, close down, restoration and environmental clean up.
Fair value less costs to sell is the amount obtainable from the sale of an asset or CGU in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of disposal.
Where there is no binding sale agreement or active market, fair value less costs to sell is based on the best information available to reflect the amount the Group could receive for the CGU in an arms length transaction.
If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the income statement so as to reduce the carrying amount in the balance sheet to its recoverable amount.
For assets excluding goodwill, a previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if the recoverable amount increases as a result of a reversal of the conditions that originally resulted in the impairment.
This reversal is recognised in the income statement and is limited to the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Business combinations and goodwill The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business combinations.
The Group elects on a  basis, to measure non-controlling interests at the value of their proportion of identifiable assets and liabilities or at full fair value.
The excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling interest over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree, represents goodwill.
Bargain purchase gain which is the excess of the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed over the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest, is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value, with contingent consideration recognised at fair value as part of that consideration transferred.
The obligation to pay contingent consideration is classified as a liability or equity on the basis of the terms and conditions of the contingent consideration.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not re-measured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
In a business combination achieved in stages, the previously held equity interest in the acquiree is re-measured at its acquisition date fair value and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the income statement.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in conjunction with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to those CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination.
These CGUs or groups of CGUs represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and these CGUs or groups of CGUs are not larger than the Groups operating segments, which are its product groups.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually in accordance with the impairment policy described above.
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Subsequently, goodwill is measured at cost initially recognised less accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets Intangible assets, which are acquired by the Group and have finite useful lives, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are capitalised at fair value when the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist, in accordance with the impairment policy described above.
Intangible assets are amortised using the straight-line method over their useful lives not exceeding 20 years.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 108 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1 1.
B. Ba as si is o s of p f pr re ep pa ar ra at ti io on a n an nd p d pr ri in nc ci ip pa al ac l acc co ou un nt ti in ng p g po ol li ic ci ie es s c co on nt tinu inue ed d Financial assets Classification The Group classifies its financial assets into the following measurement categories: loans and receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets and held-to-maturity financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, other receivables, loans receivable and other financial assets.
Measurement i Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are unquoted non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently, loans and receivables are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Where a loan is provided at interest rates different from market rates, the loan is re-measured at origination at its fair value, which is represented by future interest payments and principal repayments discounted at market interest rates for similar loans.
The difference between the fair value of the loan at origination and its cost fair value of the contribution to the borrower, net of transaction costs represents an origination gain or loss.
The origination gain or loss is recorded in the income statement within finance income costs unless it qualifies for recognition as an asset, liability or a charge to equity in accordance with the substance of the arrangement.
Subsequently, the carrying amount of the loans is adjusted for amortisation of the origination gain or loss and the amortisation is recorded as finance income costs The Groups loans and receivables comprise mainly of loans receivable, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
ii Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives such as forward currency contracts, interest rate swaps and forward commodity contracts, other than those designated as effective hedging instruments, are included within financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
These assets are initially recognised at fair value with transaction costs expensed in the income statement.
They are subsequently re-measured at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
iii Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets, other than impairment losses and foreign currency differences on available-for-sale monetary items, are recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
When an investment is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Interest on available-for-sale securities calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the income statement.
Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised in the income statement when the Groups right to receive payments is established.
The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference to closing bid prices at the end of every reporting period.
Where fair value cannot be reliably measured, available-for-sale assets are carried at cost.
iv Held-to-maturity financial assets Held-to-maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Held-to-maturity financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment losses.
Derecognition The Group derecognises financial assets when: i the assets are redeemed or the rights to cash flows from the assets have otherwise expired: ii the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets: or iii the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all risks and rewards of ownership but has not retained control.
Control is retained if the counterparty does not have the practical ability to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party without needing to impose additional restrictions on the sale.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 109 Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtor or a group of debtors is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, when it becomes probable that they will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation, where observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults, and prolonged decline in the value of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
i Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables or held-to-maturity investments carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account.
The amount of loss is recognised in the income statement.
If in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account.
ii Assets classified as available-for-sale The decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
When there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to the income statement as a reclassification adjustment even though the financial asset has not been derecognised.
The amount of the cumulative loss that is reclassified from equity to the income statement is the difference between the acquisition cost net of any principal repayment and amortisation and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement for an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for-sale are not reversed through the income statement.
If in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in the income statement.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost of inventory is determined on a weighted average basis.
Cost includes all costs incurred in the normal course of business in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Cost for raw materials, consumable stores and other inventories is purchase price or extraction cost.
Cost for work in progress and finished goods is the cost of production, including the appropriate proportion of depreciation and overheads based on normal operating capacity, but excluding borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The movement in the provision from the previous reporting period is recognised in the income statement.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less.
Balances restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date are included in other financial non-current assets, while balances restricted for more than three months but less than 12 months after the balance sheet date are included in trade and other receivables.
Restricted balances are excluded from cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 110 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1.
Basis of preparation and principal accounting policies continued Financial liabilities Classification The Group classifies its financial liabilities into the following measurement categories: loans and borrowings, financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, and derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge.
Management determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
Financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts and derivative financial instruments.
Measurement i Loans and borrowings Loans and borrowings are initially recorded at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Where a loan is obtained at interest rates different from market rates, the loan is re-measured at origination to its fair value, which is calculated as future interest payments and principal repayments discounted at market interest rates for similar loans.
Subsequently, the carrying amount of the borrowings is adjusted for amortisation of the origination gain or loss and the amortisation is recorded as finance income cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
ii Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are financial liabilities held for trading.
A financial liability is classified in this category if accepted principally for the purpose of repurchasing in the short term.
Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging instruments, are included within financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
These liabilities are initially recognised at fair value with transaction costs expensed in the income statement.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Provisions for liabilities and charges are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as a part of finance costs.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Asset retirement obligations and other environmental provisions An obligation to incur asset retirement costs occurs when environmental disturbance is caused by exploration, evaluation, development or ongoing production.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular review.
Estimates are based on managements interpretation of compliance with current environmental legislation in the country of operation.
Asset retirement costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to their net present value, are provided when the obligation to incur such costs arises and are capitalised into the cost of the related asset.
These costs are charged against profits through depreciation of the asset and unwinding of the discount on the provision.
Depreciation is included in operating costs while the unwinding of the discount is included as a finance cost.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning or site rehabilitation of plant and other site preparation work are added to, or deducted from, the cost of the related asset.
Leases Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 111 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity at the balance sheet date only if they have been approved before or on the balance sheet date.
Dividends are disclosed when they have been proposed before the balance sheet date or when declared after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are authorised for issue.
Operating segments Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for making strategic decisions, allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Group Chief Executive Officer.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies The Group makes judgements in the process of applying accounting policies.
The Group also makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The resulting accounting estimates may differ from the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year and areas of judgements that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are discussed below.
Ore reserve estimates Ore reserve estimates are calculated based on the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the JORC code which requires the use of reasonable assumptions, including: Future production estimates which include proved and probable reserves, resource estimates and committed expansions: Expected future commodity prices, based on current market price, forward prices and the Groups assessment of the long-term average price: and Future cash costs of production, capital expenditure and rehabilitation obligations.
The Groups ore reserves are based on its best estimate of product that can be economically and legally extracted from the relevant mining properties.
Estimates are developed after taking into account a range of factors including quantities, ore grades, production techniques and recovery rates, forecast commodity prices and production costs.
Estimates are normally supported by drilling samples and geological studies by independent mining engineering consultants.
Significant judgement is required to generate an estimate based on the geological data available.
Ore reserve estimates may change from period to period.
This may impact the Groups financial results.
Changes in these estimates may impact depreciation charges, impairment charges on individual assets and CGUs, and asset retirement obligation provisions.
Life of mines Contracts for subsurface use expire between 2013 and 2052.
The Group expects that the subsurface use contracts will be extended at nominal cost until the end of the lives of the related mines, which range between 7 and 46 years.
Any changes in these assumptions may impact depreciation charges, impairment charges on individual assets and CGUs and asset retirement obligations, as these items have been measured using the assumption that the subsurface use contracts will be extended until the end of the mine life.
If the contracts are not renewed at their current expiry dates, the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment existing at the expiry date to be written off at the date of expiry is US$985 million as at 31 December 2012 2011: US$793 million.
Asset retirement obligations Provision is made for asset retirement obligations when the related environmental disturbance takes place.
Decommissioning and rehabilitation expenditure is largely expected to take place at the end of the respective mine lives, which varies from 7 to 46 years.
Provisions are measured using the net present value of the expected costs as outlined in notes 1 and 29 to the Consolidated financial statements.
The provision represents managements best estimate of the costs that will be incurred based on legislative and regulatory requirements.
Significant judgement is required as many of these costs will not crystallise until the end of the life of the mine.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 112 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies continued Estimates are reviewed annually and are based on managements interpretation of compliance with current environmental legislation in the country of operation.
Significant changes in environmental legislation, restoration techniques and estimates of contamination will result in changes to provisions from period to period.
The long-term inflation rate currently applied in the calculation is 2.0%9.0% as at 31 December 2012 2011: 1.2%9.0% being the estimate of the rate of inflation over the mine lives.
The discount rate currently applied in the calculation is 5.8%13.5% at 31 December 2012 2011: 7.9%15.4% being the estimate of the risk-free pre-tax interest rates for long-term government securities.
Impairment of assets The Group considers, at least annually, the recoverability of the values of goodwill recognised in its financial statements.
The Group also at the reporting date considers the recoverability of all assets if there have been any indications of impairment.
Financial assets The Group exercises judgement in assessing whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired, including for example, assessment of counterparty default risk, both customer and financial counterparties, determination of whether there has been significant or prolonged decline in the fair value below original cost and estimation of future cash flows.
The recoverability of the value of financial assets is addressed through the Groups impairment review procedures refer to note 1.
Non-current assets and goodwill Note 1 outlines the Groups policy for impairment of long-term non-financial assets and goodwill.
Significant judgement is used to determine the present value of cash flows used including the estimated quantum and timing in the Groups impairment models.
Judgement is also employed in the assessment of the value of an asset or group of assets prior to the receipt of a confirmed offer as well as for the estimation of future cash flows required to determine value in use.
If an impairment indicator exists, the Groups approach is to consider the ability of its groups of CGUs, which have no goodwill in their financial statements, to generate future economic benefits which exceed the value of the related tangible assets in the financial statements.
In measuring the value in use for each CGU the Group based cash flow projections on the entities most recent business plans.
Cash flow projections in these business plans are extrapolated until the last year of the life-of-mine applicable for each CGU.
Cash flows have been projected for a maximum of 34 years as of 31 December 2012.
The long-term US inflation rate has been used as the assumed growth rate in the preparation of these cash flows.
In 2012, the key assumptions which formed the basis of forecasting future cash flows in the models are: Commodity prices, which are based on internal forecasts by the management of the Groups sales and marketing business.
These internal forecasts are comparable to the forecasts of industry market researchers: Long-term costs are set in line with current operational performance, as adjusted for future inflation rates in countries of operation and, where applicable, the expected movements in key input costs: The successful extraction, processing and sale of the reserves in accordance with the quantities described in the report on Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources on pages 174 to 183 and companies long-term mine plans: The long-term US inflation rate will average 2.3% per annum, in line with external forecasts: and In determining the discount rate to be applied to the future cash flows, the Group based its computation on the post-tax Weighted Average Cost of Capital for the Group, which is adjusted for the country risk premium for each CGU accordingly.
The rates used were in the range of 10.29%12.83%.
The results of the impairment review are disclosed in note 9. Business combinations The Group made a number of acquisitions during the year.
Judgement is required in determining whether a transaction meets the criteria to be treated as business combination or asset acquisition.
Acquisition method of accounting for business combination requires judgements and estimates to be made as part of the measurement of the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired and the consideration transferred.
Where necessary, the Group hired external valuation consultants to review the underlying records, make appropriate comparisons and ultimately advise on the likely fair value and economic useful lives of the acquired assets.
Where external consultants are not used the values are estimated internally.
Notes 5 and 18 provide further details of the Groups policy regarding business combinations and accounting for goodwill in 2012.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 113 Onerous contract provisions on long-term customer contracts Long-term customer contracts can extend over a number of financial years.
During the contractual period, revenue, costs and profits may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each contract.
Where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the associated expected future net benefits, an onerous contract provision is recognised.
The calculation of these provisions will involve the use of estimates and assumptions.
Key assumptions include forecast commodity prices, operational costs and discount rates.
Note 9 provides further details of the Groups onerous contract provision.
Contingent liabilities The Group exercises judgement in measuring and recognising the exposures to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation or other outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation, arbitration or government regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities see note 37.
Judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the financial settlement.
Because of the inherent uncertainty in this evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the originally estimated provision.
Taxation The Group is subject to the taxation requirements in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Significant judgement is required in determining the position for income taxes across these jurisdictions owing to the complexity of tax laws, frequent changes in tax laws and regulations, and the manner of their implementation.
Judgement must also be exercised whilst interpreting the interaction between different taxes and interaction between tax rules of different jurisdictions.
Tax provisions are recognised in accordance with tax laws enacted or substantively enacted by the tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, and in accordance with requirements of the applicable accounting standards.
Note 15 contains information on current period tax charges, prior period adjustments, current and deferred tax assets and liabilities including, where appropriate, provisions against uncertain tax positions.
Segment information Management have determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed and used by the Group Chief Executive Officer CEO to make strategic decisions.
The CEO considers the business from a products and services perspective and assesses the performance of the operating segments based on the measure of Underlying EBITDA refer to note 38.
The amounts provided to the CEO with respect to segment assets and segment liabilities are measured in a manner consistent with that of the financial statements.
These assets and liabilities are allocated based on the operations of the segment and their physical conditions.
Segment Underlying EBITDA, assets and liabilities includes items directly attributable to the operating segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, inventories, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents, and mainly exclude investments in joint ventures and associates, other financial assets, loans receivable, unallocated term deposits and deferred and current income tax assets.
Segment liabilities comprise primarily trade and other payables and asset retirement obligations and mainly exclude borrowings and deferred and current income tax liabilities.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets for commencing, expanding or sustaining production.
The Group is organised on the basis of six 2011: six operating segments: Ferroalloys comprises the extraction and sale of chrome ore as well as the production of ferroalloys from chromium and manganese ores: Iron Ore comprises exploration, extraction, processing and manufacturing of iron ore products: Alumina and Aluminium comprises extraction and processing of bauxite and limestone, and smelting of alumina and aluminium: Other Non-ferrous comprises the exploration and extraction, processing and manufacturing of copper and cobalt products, and the exploration of other minerals in Africa.
Includes also the logistics and trucking operations throughout Southern Africa: Energy comprises coal mining, processing to produce coke and semi-coke products and power generation: and Logistics Kazakhstans main freight forwarder and railroad operator, providing international logistics for all Eurasian based Group operations: also rail construction and repair services for the Kazakhstani state rail company.
Internal charges between segments have been reflected in the performance of each operating segment.
The Group has a number of activities that exist principally to support the metals operations including power generation, coal mining and transportation.
Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under a cost-plus pricing structure.
The revenue generated from third parties reported to the CEO is measured in a manner consistent with that in the Consolidated income statement.
The identified operating and reportable segments of the Group are the same as those that applied to the Groups Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 114 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3.
Segment information continued During 2012 the following acquisitions have been added to the Group.
Refer to note 5 for further details.
Company Operating Segment Camrose Resources Limited Other Non-ferrous Roan Prospecting & Mining SPRL Other Non-ferrous Frontier SPRL Other Non-ferrous Compagnie Minire fide Sakania SPRL Other Non-ferrous Shubarkol Komir JSC Energy Alumina and Other 2012 Segment information Ferroalloys Iron Ore Aluminium Non-ferrous Energy Logistics Intra Group In millions of US$ Division Division Division Division Division Division Corporate Eliminations Total Revenue 2,604 1,832 883 604 350 38 9 6,320 Inter-segment revenue 14 2 24 417 248 705 Segment revenue 2,618 1,834 907 604 767 286 9 705 6,320 Segment operating profit loss 609 643 1,024 652 303 52 305 374 Finance income 60 Finance cost 286 Net gain arising from business combinations note 5 89 Share of loss of joint ventures and associates 39 Loss before income tax 550 Income tax expense 302 Loss for the year 852 Impairments note 9 124 2 618 336 13 123 1,216 Depreciation and amortisation 139 113 119 185 103 26 6 691 Onerous contract provision note 9 328 328 Acquisition related costs note 5 24 2 26 Gain loss arising from business combinations note 5 109 20 89 Underlying EBITDA note 38 872 758 41 107 421 78 176 1,887 Capital expenditure 682 443 237 637 266 218 56 2,539 Segment assets 3,518 4,212 1,603 7,029 2,373 594 476 157 19,648 Segment liabilities 472 188 424 383 125 41 391 290 1,734 17,914 Unallocated term deposits 50 Investments in joint ventures andassociates 9 Other financial assets 323 Loans receivable 47 Borrowings 5,833 Deferred and current income tax assets 87 Deferred and current income taxliabilities 2,047 Total equity 10,550 Average number of employees 24,442 20,224 14,220 8,773 8,492 1,825 508 78,484 Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 115 Alumina and Other 2011 Segment information Ferroalloys Iron Ore Aluminium Non-ferrous Energy Logistics Intra Group In millions of US$ Division Division Division Division Division Division Corporate Eliminations Total Revenue 3,069 2,449 1,122 657 248 149 11 7,705 Inter-segment revenue 15 3 23 370 193 604 Segment revenue 3,084 2,452 1,145 657 618 342 11 604 7,705 Segment operating profit loss 1,040 1,404 234 40 299 63 124 2,876 Finance income 61 Finance cost 184 Share of profit of joint ventures andassociates 2 Profit before income tax 2,755 Income tax expense 769 Profit for the year 1,986 Depreciation and amortisation 122 101 98 114 61 15 4 515 Impairments 7 17 24 Underlying EBITDA note 38 1,169 1,505 332 74 360 95 122 3,413 Capital expenditure 403 436 254 238 323 252 15 1,921 Segment assets 3,114 4,135 2,111 3,252 1,135 474 444 139 14,526 Segment liabilities 369 164 79 92 78 76 559 139 1,278 13,248 Unallocated term deposits 72 Investments in joint ventures andassociates 389 Other financial assets 218 Loans receivable 227 Borrowings 1,594 Deferred and current income tax assets 84 Deferred and current income taxliabilities 1,408 Total equity 11,236 Average number of employees 25,229 19,331 14,457 8,219 6,836 2,970 399 77,441 Geographical information The Groups revenue from external customers and non-current assets by geographical location are detailed below.
Revenue by geographical location is allocated based upon the ultimate country of destination of the products services if known.
If the eventual destination of the product service sold through traders is not known, then the revenue is allocated to the location where the customer resides.
Revenue from external customers Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Russia 2,014 2,953 Kazakhstan 515 548 1 Rest of Eurasia 29 37 Eurasia 2,558 3,538 China 1,489 1,488 Japan 584 723 2 Rest of Asia Pacific 264 175 Asia Pacific 2,337 2,386 3 Europe and Middle East 989 1,140 Africa 113 284 Rest of the World 323 357 Total 6,320 7,705 1 Rest of Eurasia comprises other countries of the former Soviet Union.
2 Rest of Asia Pacific comprises South Korea and other countries in this region.
3 The Group does not derive revenues in the UK.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 116 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3.
Segment information continued Non-current assets are allocated based upon the geographical location of those assets and exclude investments in joint ventures and associates, other financial assets, loans receivable and deferred tax assets.
Non-current assets As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Kazakhstan 7,841 6,357 Russia 224 209 1 Rest of Eurasia 29 15 Eurasia 8,094 6,581 Democratic Republic of the Congo DRC 5,362 1,548 Zambia 335 372 2 Rest of Africa 720 958 Africa 6,417 2,878 Brazil 1,921 2,032 Rest of the World 216 159 Total 16,648 11,650 1 Rest of Eurasia comprises other countries of the former Soviet Union.
2 Rest of Africa comprises Mozambique, Zimbabwe, South Africa and Mali.
Major customers Included in revenue arising from iron ore sales of US$1,832 million 2011: US$2,449 million are sales of approximately US$796 million 2011: US$1,547 million which arose from the Groups largest customer, Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel Works OJSC MMK.
Balances and transactions with related parties During the years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, the Group entered into the following transactions with related parties in the ordinary course of business: Founder 1 2 Shareholders Joint ventures Associates Other Total In millions of US$ 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Revenue from sale of goods 8 6 1 1 9 7 Revenue from the provision of services 2 3 31 2 33 5 Purchase of goods 9 42 18 18 44 45 86 Purchase of services and other expense income 79 79 2 1 1 6 14 83 93 3 Finance income 7 18 23 11 30 29 Finance cost 1 10 1 2 2 12 Purchase of property plant 4 and equipment 5 48 5 48 1 Includes all entities under the control of the Founder Shareholders.
2 Other mainly includes US$1 million revenue from Kazakhmys PLC and US$5 million other services received from Medical Centre Eurasia LLP company owned by the Groups CEO 2011: US$1 million revenue from Kazakhmys PLC, US$10 million provision against the option to acquire 70% in Masalskoe GOK LLP and US$4 million other services received from Medical Centre Eurasia LLP previously disclosed within Founder Shareholders.
3 Finance income of US$23 million recognised in the Joint Ventures category in 2012 relates to the shareholder loan facility, provided to Camrose 2011: US$11 million prior the acquisition.
4 During 2012, the Group capitalised within property, plant and equipment US$5 million predominantly related to the acquisition of railway wagons 2011: US$48 million from an entity controlled by the Founder Shareholders.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 117 The outstanding balances with related parties as at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 are as follows: 1 Founder Shareholders Joint 6 Eurasian Bank Other ventures Associates Other Total In millions of US$ 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Non-current assets 2 Loans receivable 7 199 7 199 3 Other financial assets 23 16 23 16 4 Other non-current assets 5 3 2 5 5 Current assets Trade and other 5 receivables 24 36 3 17 2 8 4 12 41 65 Cash and cash equivalents 153 175 153 175 Current liabilities Borrowings 3 75 78 Trade and other payables 5 7 2 2 2 1 7 12 1 Includes all entities under the control of the Founder Shareholders.
2 Non-current loans receivable of US$7 million relates to Taurus Gold Ltd. a joint venture of the Group 2011: Loan receivable of US$199 million predominantly relates to the shareholder loan facility, which was provided to Camrose during 2010 for repaying committed loans previously undertaken by Camrose, funding working capital, commencing feasibility studies, as well as planning and development.
As a result of the acquisition of the outstanding ordinary shares of Camrose in December 2012, theoutstanding balance of US$436 million for this loan as at 31 December 2012 became an intercompany loan.
No repayments were made in relation to this loan.
3 Other financial assets held with Eurasian Bank JSC includes term deposits of US$23 million 2011: US$16 million for the retirement of assets in accordance with the requirements of contracts on subsurface use.
4 Other non-current assets with Eurasian Bank JSC of US$5 million relates to letters of credit for property, plant and equipment 2011: US$3 million.
5 Trade and other receivables with Eurasian Bank JSC include letters of credit of US$2 million 2011: US$14 million and term deposits including interest of US$22 million 2011:US$22 million.
6 Other includes US$12 million receivable from Xinjiang Tuoli ENRC Taihang Chrome Co. Ltd. Tuoli, which was sold in 2012 subject to the satisfactory receipt of outstanding trade payables to the Group.
Trade payables of US$2 million mainly relates to Medical Centre Eurasia LLP, a company owned by the Group CEO 2011: US$75 million payable for promissory notes to Cerida Global Limited, the Groups former joint venture partner, and US$1 million trade payable to Medical Centre Eurasia LLP previously disclosed within Founder Shareholders.
Founder Shareholders The Group was formed from a collection of entities jointly controlled by the three Founder Shareholders, Mr P Chodiev, Mr A Ibragimov and Mr A Machkevitch.
The Founder Shareholders continue to be major shareholders of the Company and collectively own, including shares held through trusts and other entities, 43.8% of the Company as at 31 December 2012 2011: 43.8%.
For the years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, the Group undertook significant related party transactions with entities controlled by the Founder Shareholders.
Revenues of US$8 million 2011: US$6 million from the sales of goods to entities controlled by the Founder Shareholders were recognised in the energy segment.
The purchase of goods and services from entities controlled by the Founder Shareholders include the following transactions: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Purchases of goods Purchases of raw materials 9 42 Total 9 42 Purchase of services and other expense income Insurance 43 39 Security services 17 13 Rental expenses 8 8 Repairs and maintenance 4 8 Bank charges 4 4 Other 3 7 Total 79 79 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 118 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 4.
Balances and transactions with related parties continued Eurasian Bank JSC Eurasian Bank JSC is a company controlled by the Founder Shareholders.
Term deposits held at Eurasian Bank JSC have an effective interest rate for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 2.3% 2011: 2.8%.
Cash and cash equivalents held at Eurasian Bank JSC bear an interest rate of 3.5% 2011: 2.3%.
There were no restrictions on the balance of US$153 million 2011: US$175 million in cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2012.
Guarantees At the inception of the contract in December 2006, Mr A Machkevitch provided a guarantee in favour of Alumina & Bauxite Company Ltd, a member of the RUSAL Group, to guarantee the due and punctual performance of ENRC Marketing AGs obligations under its alumina supply contract with RUSAL.
The guarantee contains an indemnity from Mr A Machkevitch in favour of Alumina & Bauxite Company Ltd in respect of any losses it may suffer arising from any default or non-performance by ENRC Marketing AG under the contract.
Transactions and balances with Government Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan related entities The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and related entities are related parties of the Group as a result of the Governments shareholding in the Group.
The Group has a number of transactions with the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and related entities.
The nature of these transactions are typically as follows: Railroad construction and repair services provided to the Government revenue US$30 million in 2012 2011: US$134 million : Energy supplied to state owned companies which are part of the National Welfare Fund Samruk-Kazyna JSC group revenue US$5 million in 2012 2011: US$2 million : The majority of the Groups Community and Social Investment in Kazakhstan is made through the Komek Foundation which was established in 2008.
The Komek Foundations long-term focus is on the implementation of programmes aimed at supporting the Groups own employees as well as providing finance for investment in the development of cultural, education, sport and health facilities.
Social investment and donations predominately to local schools, colleges and councils in 2012 amounted to US$30 million 2011: US$10 million.
No donations were made to the Nazarbayev Fund during 2012 2011: US$98 million.
In addition, donations of US$65 million 2011: US$20 million were made to the State Fund Centre of Complex Development Sary-Arka to fund the construction of an opera house with total donations up to 31 December 2012 to fund this project being US$105 million: National railway services received from Kazakhstan Temir Zholy JSC of US$124 million in 2012 2011: US$106 million : Balances included in advances to suppliers and other receivables related to the future services from Kazakhstan Temir Zholy JSC amounted to US$25 million as at year ended 31 December 2012 2011: US$11 million : Supply and transportation of fuel and oil associated gas by KazTransGaz JSC amounted to US$46 million in 2012 2011: US$48 million : Services received in relation to transportation of electricity and energy by Kazakhstan Electricity Grid Operating Company JSC KEGOC US$34 million in 2012 2011: US$32 million : Utility services including water, electricity, waste received from state owned companies which are part of the National Welfare Fund Samruk-Kazyna JSC group amounted to US$8 million in 2012 2011: US$6 million : and Taxation and similar payments including royalties and Mineral Extraction Tax MET.
In 2010, the Group entered into loan agreements with Development Bank of Kazakhstan and JSC Sovereign Wealth Fund SamrukKazyna, entities controlled by the Republic of Kazakhstan as follows: Development Bank of Kazakhstan Facility On 15 April 2010, the Group announced that it had entered into a loan agreement for the amount of US$400 million with the Development Bank of Kazakhstan.
The facility is provided by the Development Bank of Kazakhstan using financing from the State-run ExportImport Bank of China.
The facility is for a 15-year period, bears an interest rate of 4% and is fully drawn as at 31 December 2012 2011: fully drawn.
The loan is secured by a corporate guarantee issued by ENRC PLC and a pledge over 51% of the shares of Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter JSC KAS.
Interest charged to the Consolidated income statement amounted to US$16 million in 2012 2011: US$16 million.
The balance payable on the balance sheet amounted to US$401 million including accrued interest for the year ended 31 December 2012 31 December 2011: US$400 million.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 119 JSC Wealth Fund Samruk-Kazyna On 30 November 2010, the Group entered into a US$500 million facility with the JSC Wealth Fund Samruk-Kazyna.
The facility has an applicable interest rate of 7.5% per annum and is repayable in 10 years by bullet repayment.
No security has been pledged as part of the agreement and it is fully drawn down as at 31 December 2012 2011: fully drawn down.
Interest charged to the Consolidated income statement amounted to US$38 million in 2012 2011: US$38 million.
The balance payable on the Consolidated balance sheet amounted to US$511 million including accrued interest as at 31 December 2012 2011: US$511 million.
Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo DRC related entities La Gnrale des Carrires et des Mines Gcamines, the representative entity of the DRC Government, holds 30% interest in the Groups subsidiary Boss Mining SPRL.
As a result of the acquisitions during 2012, the DRC Government holds the remaining 5% in Frontier SPRL, 30% in Metalkol SARL and Gcamines will continue to hold the minority 25% stake in Swanmines SPRL.
The Group has a number of transactions with the DRC Government and related entities.
The nature of these transactions are typically as follows: Taxation and similar payments including royalties : Electricity received from Societe Nationale dElectricite amounted to US$11 million in 2012 2011: US$7 million : During 2012, the DRC Government granted to ENRCs subsidiary Frontier SPRL a new mining licence in respect of the Frontier mine for US$101.5 million.
The new Frontier licence will provide feed for the Frontier processing plant that was acquired from First Quantum Minerals Ltd refer to note 5 for further details : Prior to acquisition by the Group of the outstanding shares of Camrose Resources Limited, Camrose Metalkol SARL a subsidiary of Camrose recognised a long term receivable of US$35 million from the DRC Government.
The Group will review the nature and fair value of this amount as part of the process of finalising its accounting for the acquisition of Camrose: and As a result of the acquisition of outstanding shares in Camrose refer to Acquisitions section below, a loan receivable from Gcamines that amounted to US$6 million including accrued interest of $1 million was recognised as part of the Groups balances on the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2012.
This loan was provided to Gcamines as part of the US$400 million shareholder loan facility to Camrose, for the purposes of subscribing by Gcamines for shares in Metalkol SARL Camroses subsidiary.
Acquisitions Shubarkol Call Option In April 2012 the Group exercised the option and completed the acquisition of the remaining 75% of the outstanding ordinary shares of Shubarkol refer to note 5 for further details from Eurasian Industrial Company JSC which is owned by Founder Shareholders of the Group.
Camrose In December 2012, the Group acquired the remaining 49.5% of the outstanding ordinary shares in Camrose refer to note 5 for further details from Cerida Global Limited the Groups former joint venture partner.
Cerida Global Limited is an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Fleurette Properties Limited, whose entire issued share capital is indirectly and wholly owned by a discretionary trust for the benefit of the wife and children of Mr Dan Gertler.
Promissory notes Promissory notes related to the consideration payable for the initial 50.5% investment in Camrose, totalling US$125 million issued to Cerida Global Limited, were fully settled during 2012 2011: outstanding balance was US$75 million.
Options On 8 January 2009 the Group purchased an option for a cash consideration of US$10 million, from a company controlled by Mr A Yedilbayev, who served as one of the Groups non-executive Directors until the 8 June 2011, to acquire a 70% interest in Masalskoe GOK LLP.
Masalskoe is a company with rights for exploration and production of iron ore of the Masalskoe deposit in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Group has provided in full for this option and the impairment loss in 2011 was included within impairments and onerous contract provision, refer to note 9.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 120 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 4.
Balances and transactions with related parties continued Disposals On 18 March 2011, companies within the Group entered into a preliminary agreement with Prime Residential County LLP Prime for Prime to purchase 100% of the equity shareholding in Zhol Zhondeushy LLP a subsidiary of the Group.
On 16 May 2012, the parties signed a sale and purchase agreement and Zhol Zhondeushy LLP was sold to Prime for 2,266 million tenge approximately US$15 million.
Mr A Shadiev, who served as a Director of one of the Groups subsidiaries between 2007 and 2012, became one of two members of Prime on 2 May 2012.
Key management personnel Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly.
They include the Board and Senior Management as identified on pages 60 to 61.
Compensation for key management personnel is set out in the table below: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Salary and other short-term benefits 22 24 Share-based payments 6 4 Post-employment benefits 2 1 Termination benefits 2 Total 30 31 Balances outstanding with key management arising from key management compensation were as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 1 Payables 8 11 1 Payables represent accrued bonuses and liabilities under cash settled plans.
Board Compensation Compensation payable to Directors of the Company is for services performed for the Group.
Directors detailed emoluments are disclosed in the Remuneration report on pages 76 to 85.
5. Business combinations Acquisition of Camrose Resources Limited Camrose On 28 December 2012, the Group completed the purchase of the remaining 49.5% of the outstanding ordinary shares of Camrose, as well as the outstanding minority shareholdings in certain Camrose subsidiaries.
The total cash consideration was US$550 million.
The Group subsequently holds effective interests of 100% in Camrose, 100% in La Congolaise fide Mines et fide Dveloppement Comide Sprl Comide, 70% in Treatment of Kingamyambo Tailings Company Metalkol, 63.7% in Africo Resources Limited Africo and 47.8% in Swanmines Sprl Swanmines.
Camrose, through its subsidiaries, primarily holds interests in five copper and cobalt exploitation licences situated in the DRC: The main asset is the Kolwezi tailings which are owned by Metalkol.
The tailings consist of the Kingamyambo dam and the Musoni river tailings containing copper and cobalt ore.
The tailings will be processed by the Kolwezi Processing Facility acquired as part of the First Quantum Minerals transaction in March 2012, discussed later in this note which sits adjacent to the site: Africo, which is listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, owns a 75% interest, through its subsidiary Swanmines, in an exploitation licence on the Kalukundi property in the Kolwezi District of the Katanga Province, in the southeast of the DRC.
The remaining 25% is owned by Gcamines: and Comide holds the exploitation licences for Kii, Mashitu and Pungulume, which are contiguous to Africos Kalukundi property.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 121 The provisional fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Camrose and its subsidiaries as at the acquisition date are set out below: Provisional fair values at In millions of US$ acquisition date Property, plant and equipment including mineral rights 2,149 Other financial assets current 47 Other receivables non-financial 13 Loans receivable non-current 6 Inventories 6 Total assets 2,221 Deferred tax liabilities 576 Trade and other payables 29 Borrowings 6 Short term provisions 1 Total liabilities 612 Net assets 1,609 Non-controlling interests 475 Goodwill 386 Net attributable assets 1,520 Consideration: Purchase consideration settled in cash 550 Cash acquired 27 Net cash outflow on acquisition 523 Fair value of existing interest at acquisition date 523 Consideration 1,046 Fair value of shareholder loans and other existing trading balances 474 Total consideration 1,520 Analysis of gain arising from business combinations: 1 Fair value of existing interest 523 Book value of existing interest 137 Gain arising on re-measurement to fair value of existing equity interest 386 Derecognition adjustment in respect of goodwill arising from FQM transaction as a result of this business combination 277 Gain arising from business combinations 109 1 The fair value of existing interest is calculated based upon the consideration for the outstanding ordinary shares excluding amounts attributed to the acquisition of non-controlling interests.
The Camrose transaction is one of the main reasons for the decrease in investments in joint ventures and associates in the Consolidated balance sheet as it was previously accounted for as a joint venture, refer to note 19.
As a result of the acquisition, the 50.5% previously held equity interest in Camrose was required to be re-measured at fair value as at the acquisition date IFRS 3, resulting in a gain of US$109 million.
This gain has been included within the net gain arising from business combinations line in the Consolidated income statement.
The gain includes the derecognition of goodwill relating to the acquisition of Roan Prospecting and Mining SPRL discussed later in this note which is subsequently allocated to the Camrose cash-generating unit CGU.
This goodwill is now fully recognised in the fair value of the Camrose assets acquired refer to note 18.
As required by IFRS 3, the identifiable assets and liabilities exclude balances payable by Camrose to the Group.
Under IFRS 3, such balances arising from pre-existing relationships are deemed to be settled at acquisition as they eliminate on consolidation.
There was, however, no actual settlement of the balances and they remain due and payable.
These amounts relate to shareholder loans and other existing trading balances of net fair value of US$474 million due from Camrose to the Group and prior to the acquisition were included in the Groups Consolidated balance sheet.
These balances were considered to be carried at fair value and therefore no gain or loss arose on deemed settlement.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 122 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5. Business combinations continued The goodwill recognised on acquisition is the result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability on the acquired mineral rights within property, plant and equipment and fair value adjustments.
None of the recognised goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Acquisition costs of US$17.5 million have been expensed and included in general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated income statement.
The Group has chosen to recognise the non-controlling interests for this acquisition based on their proportionate share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree.
The acquired businesses contributed no revenue and no profit after income tax from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2012.
If the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of the year, there would have been no additional impact to the Groups revenue, whilst there would have been a reduction to the profit after income tax of US$35 million this excludes share of loss of joint ventures already included in the Consolidated income statement.
Acquisition of Roan Prospecting & Mining SPRL, Frontier SPRL and Compagnie Minire fide Sakania SPRL On 2 March 2012, the Group completed the acquisition of First Quantum Minerals Limiteds FQM business assets in respect of the Kolwezi Tailings KMT project, the Frontier and Lonshi mines and related exploration interests, all located in the Katanga Province of the DRC, for a total consideration of US$1.25 billion.
The entities acquired were 100% Compagnie Minire fide Sakania SPRL COMISA, 100% Kolwezi Investment Limited.
KI, 100% Roan Prospecting and Mining SPRL RPM, 100% Congo Minerals Development CMD and 95% Frontier SPRL Frontier.
The remaining 5% in Frontier is held by the DRC Government.
The total consideration of US$1.25 billion comprised of the following: An initial payment of US$750 million which was made in March 2012: and Deferred consideration of US$500 million in the form of a three-year promissory note with an interest coupon of 3% which is payable annually in arrears.
Subsequent to the above, on 31 July 2012, the DRC Government granted a new mining licence in respect of the Frontier mine for US$101.5 million.
The main asset of RPM is the Kolwezi Processing Facility.
The facility consists of solvent extraction and electrowinning SX EW circuits for the production of cobalt hydroxide and copper cathodes.
The ore body which will be utilised is the Kolwezi tailings, discussed earlier in this note as part of the Camrose acquisition.
The Kolwezi Processing Facility and the Kolwezi tailings are referred to together as the Roan Tailings Reclamation RTR project previously known as the KMT project.
The assets at Frontier consist of an open pit mine and processing facility, comprising a mill and a concentrator for the production of copper concentrate.
The table below sets out the final fair values at acquisition date: Final fair values at acquisition date In millions of US$ RPM Frontier Other Total Property, plant and equipment including mineral rights 416 605 2 1,023 Inventories 42 42 Total assets 416 647 2 1,065 Deferred tax liabilities 10 101 1 112 Trade and other payables 6 6 Total liabilities 10 107 1 118 Net assets 406 540 1 947 Non-controlling interests 27 27 Goodwill 277 96 1 372 Net attributable assets 683 609 1,292 Consideration: Consideration to FQM analysed below 683 507 1,190 Cash payment to DRC Government for grant of Frontier licence 102 102 Total consideration 683 609 1,292 Analysis of FQM consideration: Purchase consideration settled in cash 750 FQM refund for assets not delivered on closing 1 Fair value of promissory notes 441 Total 1,190 Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 123 The Group has finalised its review of the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in respect of the FQM transaction.
The final fair value adjustments related primarily to the final measurement of mineral rights acquired, inventories acquired and other adjustments to goodwill and deferred tax liabilities.
The Frontier business was acquired for consideration of US$609 million comprising US$507 million in March 2012 to FQM and US$101.5 million in July 2012 to the DRC Government.
Due to the short time period between these transactions and their linked nature, they have been treated as occurring at one stage for the purposes of acquisition accounting.
The goodwill recognised on the Frontier acquisition is the result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability on the acquired mineral rights within property, plant and equipment.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of RPM relates to synergy benefits arising in respect of the Camrose joint venture at the time of acquisition and has been allocated to the Camrose CGU.
As discussed earlier in this note and referred to in note 18, this goodwill is subsequently derecognised on the acquisition of Camrose in 2012.
Acquisition costs of US$5.2 million have been expensed and included in general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated income statement.
The acquired businesses contributed no revenue and a loss after income tax of $10 million from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2012.
If the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of the year, there would have been no additional impact to the Groups revenue and no additional impact to profit after income tax in the Consolidated income statement.
Acquisition of Shubarkol Komir Joint Stock Company Shubarkol On 16 April 2012, the Group exercised the option, which was originally granted in conjunction with the acquisition of the initial 25% interest in Shubarkol in February 2009, to acquire the remaining 75% of the outstanding ordinary shares of Shubarkol.
The total cash consideration was US$600 million plus assumed debt of US$50 million following receipt of all necessary legal and regulatory approvals.
Shubarkol holds 100% of the ordinary shares of Sary-Arka Spetskoks LLP Sary-Arka and indirectly 70% of the ordinary shares of Xinjiang Aismir Coking Coal Co. Limited Asmare JV.
As a result of this transaction, the Group owns an effective interest of 96.3% in Shubarkol and 67.4% in Asmare JV due to non-controlling interests.
The principal activity of Shubarkol is the extraction of thermal coal with low ash content from open pit mines.
It is one of the major producers of coal in Kazakhstan.
Sary-Arka is also located in Kazakhstan and its main asset is a coke production plant which produces semi-coke from coal supplied by Shubarkol.
Asmare JV owns and operates a coke plant in the Xinjiang region of China, and is primarily engaged in the production of low phosphorous coke and coke by-products from coal supplied by local suppliers.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 124 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5. Business combinations continued The table below sets out the adjustments to the provisional fair values as previously reported and the final fair values at acquisition date.
The final fair value adjustments relate primarily to the measurement of the investment in joint venture, intangible assets and non-controlling interests which were required when the Group completed its review of the acquired balance sheet: Provisional fair values at acquisition date Final Final fair as reported at fair value values at In millions of US$ 30 June 2012 adjustments acquisition date Property, plant and equipment including mineral rights 830 32 862 Intangible assets 14 14 Investment in joint venture 11 11 22 Other financial assets non-current 11 11 Inventories 11 11 Other financial assets current 6 6 Total assets 883 29 912 Deferred tax liabilities 146 20 166 Borrowings 50 50 Taxation 12 1 13 Provisions 11 11 Trade and other payables 11 4 7 Total liabilities 230 17 247 Net assets 653 12 665 Non-controlling interests 1 28 29 Goodwill 132 20 152 Net attributable assets 784 4 788 Consideration: Purchase consideration settled in cash 600 600 Cash acquired 16 16 Net cash outflow on acquisition 584 584 Fair value of existing interest at acquisition date 200 200 Consideration 784 784 Fair value of existing trading balances 4 4 Total consideration 784 4 788 Analysis of loss arising from business combinations: Fair value of existing interest 200 200 Book value of existing interest 214 6 220 Loss arising from business combinations 14 6 20 The Shubarkol transaction is one of the main reasons for the decrease in investments in joint ventures and associates in the Consolidated balance sheet as it was previously accounted for as an associate, refer to note 19.
As a result of the acquisition, the previously held equity interest in Shubarkol was required to be re-measured at fair value as at the acquisition date IFRS 3, resulting in a loss of US$20 million.
This loss has been included within the net gain arising from business combinations line in the Consolidated income statement.
The goodwill recognised on acquisition is the result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability on the acquired mineral rights within property, plant and equipment and fair value adjustments.
As required by IFRS 3, the identifiable assets and liabilities exclude balances payable by Shubarkol to the Group.
These amounts relate to existing trading balances of net fair value US$4 million due from Asmare JV to the Group and prior to the acquisition were included in the Groups Consolidated balance sheet.
Acquisition costs of US$1.9 million have been expensed and included in general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated income statement.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 125 The acquired business contributed revenues of US$105 million and profit after income tax of US$41 million from the date of acquisition.
If the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of the year, the impact to the Groups revenue would have been an additional US$48 million and there would have been an additional profit after income tax of US$21 million this excludes share of profit of associates already included in the Consolidated income statement.
Goodwill The acquisition of Camrose, FQMs assets in respect of the RTR project, Frontier and Shubarkol, are the main reasons for the increase in goodwill in the Consolidated balance sheet, refer to note 18.
Fair value estimates The provisional values of assets and liabilities recognised on acquisition are their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition.
Accounting standards permit up to 12 months for provisional acquisition accounting to be finalised following the acquisition date if any subsequent information provides better evidence of the items fair value at the date of acquisition.
For the FQM and Shubarkol transaction, the Group finalised its review of the fair value of assets and liabilities recognised at the date of acquisition.
For the Camrose transaction, the Group is in the process of finalising its review of the fair value of assets and liabilities recognised at the date of acquisition.
Such reviews may include engaging third party advisors to determine the fair values of the CGUs of the entities acquired.
Revenue Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Sales of goods, net of discounts 6,146 7,437 Logistics services 169 259 Sales of by-products and other revenue 5 9 Total revenue 6,320 7,705 7.
Cost of sales Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Materials and components used 1,432 1,504 Staff costs 703 604 Depreciation and amortisation 666 498 Mineral extraction taxes, royalties and other taxes 325 399 Power and energy 208 201 Repairs and maintenance 135 114 Insurance 44 37 Changes in inventories 125 91 Other 335 251 Total cost of sales 3,723 3,517 8.
Distribution costs Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Transportation costs 425 398 Agency and commission fees 19 24 Staff costs 11 7 Taxes and duties 10 14 Packing and handling materials 10 10 Insurance 4 6 Other 51 42 Total distribution costs 530 501 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 126 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9.
Impairments and onerous contract provision Year ended 31 December In millions of US$ Operating segment: 2012 2011 Impairments Cash-generating units: Aluminium of Kazakhstan Alumina and Aluminium Division 608 Boss Mining Group Other Non-ferrous Division 240 Zhairemsky GOK Ferroalloys Division 124 Chambishi Other Non-ferrous Division 96 Investments in quoted equity shares Corporate 123 Other Various 25 24 Total impairments 1,216 24 Onerous contract provision Alumina and Aluminium Division 328 Impairments Cash-generating units As a result of the annual impairment review of cash-generating units CGU, the Group recognised impairments of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other non-current assets for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined using the higher of the value in use VIU and fair value less costs to sell.
In 2012, the recoverable amount was determined to be the VIU.
The VIU is the net present value of future cash flows expected to be derived from the relevant CGU in its current condition.
The cash flow projections are based on a five-year strategic plan, after which a growth rate of 2.3% 2011: 2.2% is applied for the years thereafter.
The price assumptions used are based on internal management forecasts for commodity prices, which are then benchmarked with external sources of information to ensure that they are within the range of available analyst forecasts.
The discount rate applied is based on the weighted average cost of capital WACC, adjusted for country risk.
The WACC takes into account both the cost of equity and debt, adjusted for specific risks associated with the Group.
The post-tax discount rate is applied to post-tax cash flows expressed in nominal terms.
The following are the discount rates used in determining the VIU.
Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Ferroalloys Division 10.29%-10.42% 10.51%-10.81% Iron Ore Division 10.42% 10.81% Alumina and Aluminium Division 10.42% 10.81% Other Non-ferrous Division 11.36%-12.83% 11.13%-12.15% Energy Division 10.42% 10.81% The operating costs and capital expenditure are based on the most recent approved budget and five-year strategic plan.
The operating costs and capital expenditure are based on managements best estimate of expected costs taking into consideration long-term production plans and expected efficiency improvements over the life of the mine.
The CGUs where impairments have been identified are discussed below.
Aluminium of Kazakhstan AoK CGU AoK is a major supplier of alumina with assets including an aluminium plant, bauxite and limestone mines, and a heat and energy plant.
AoK is treated as a separate CGU within the Alumina and Aluminium Division.
As a result of the impairment review, an impairment loss of US$608 million 2011: US$nil was recognised for the AoK CGU of which US$597 million relates to property, plant and equipment and the remaining, US$11 million, relates to other non-current assets.
The impairment loss was mainly due to lower long-term prices for alumina as a result of difficult market conditions and inflationary cost pressures.
Boss Mining Group CGU Boss Mining Group CGU is included in the Other Non-ferrous Division.
The Boss Mining Group CGU includes Boss Mining Sprl, Socit Minire fide Kabolela et Kipese Sprl SMKK and the relevant assets of Congo Cobalt Corporation Sprl CCC which provides mining contracting services to Boss Mining and SMKK.
Boss Mining includes copper and cobalt mining and processing operations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo DRC.
The operations include open cast mines, crushing, beneficiation, concentrator plants and an electro-winning facility.
SMKK is the holder of exploration permit assets contiguous to the Groups existing operations in the DRC.
These Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 127 assets are considered as one CGU for the purpose of impairment review as their operations are inextricably linked and their cash inflows are monitored as one CGU.
The US$240 million 2011: US$nil impairment loss in the Boss Mining Group CGU includes the impairment of goodwill of US$177 million and property, plant and equipment of US$63 million.
As a result of reprioritisation of the Groups copper projects, the construction of the Boss Mining concentrator has been deferred.
This impacted the timing of expected cash inflows and resulted in higher production costs.
Zhairemsky CGU Zhairemsky GOK is a major supplier of manganese and ferromanganese concentrates to customers throughout Russia, Ukraine, Central Asia and China.
Zhairemsky GOK is treated as a separate CGU within the Ferroalloys Division.
Property, plant and equipment and other non-current assets of the Zhairemsky GOK CGU have been impaired by US$124 million 2011: US$nil.
The impairment loss is due to limited demand and lower prices for its main manganese products and higher costs of production.
Chambishi CGU Chambishi Metals PLC Chambishi is a Zambian copper and cobalt producer.
Chambishi together with ENRC Marketing Africa FZE, a Dubai-based marketing and sales company that historically has handled Chambishis copper and cobalt sales, is considered a separate CGU.
The Chambishi CGU is included in the Other Non-ferrous Division.
Goodwill relating to the Chambishi CGU was impaired by US$96 million 2011: US$nil due to the deferral of capital expenditure as a result of the reprioritisation of the Groups copper and cobalt projects and consequential higher production costs.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions The impairment test for the CGUs were particularly sensitive to changes in commodity prices, discount rates and operating costs.
Whilst the Directors remain confident in the assumptions used in the recoverable amount computations, adverse changes in assumptions as described below for the Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter CGU, Frontier CGU and Roan Tailing Reclamation CGU could result in an impairment charge.
Sensitivity analysis has shown that these CGUs with headroom would show an impairment loss if one of the key assumptions changed, as illustrated in the following table: Change in the key assumption which would result in the recoverable Excess of Value assigned to the key assumption amount equalling the carrying value recoverable amount over Commodity Discount Operating Commodity Discount Operating carrying value prices rate costs prices rate costs 2012 US$ million US$ % US$000 t % % % KAS 242 Aluminium: 2,200 t-5,069 t 10.4 Years 1-2: 1.9-2.1 2.3 29.9 5.4 Thereafter: 2.2-4.3 RTR 179 Copper: 7,100 t-11,978 t 12.8 Years 1-2: n a 0.9 7.7 16.9 Cobalt:12.5 lb-24.5 lb Thereafter: 3.9-7.3 Frontier 93 Copper: 7,100 t-10,691 t 12.8 Years 1-2: 3.0-3.1 2.4 14.3 8.1 Cobalt:12.5 lb-22.0 lb Thereafter: 2.0-4.6 Each of the sensitivities above were determined assuming the relevant key assumption moved in isolation.
Investments in quoted equity shares The Group determines an impairment loss on its investments in quoted equity shares when there has been a significant or prolonged decline in its fair value below original cost.
The Group exercises judgement in determining what is significant or prolonged by evaluating, among other factors, whether the decline is outside the normal range of volatility in the assets price.
The level of impairment loss that the Group recognised in the Consolidated income statement is the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in the revaluation reserve of financial assets available-for-sale in the Consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The total amount of impairment loss recognised by the Group in relation to its investments in quoted equity shares is US$123 million 2011: US$nil.
Of this impairment loss, US$120 million relates to the Groups interest in Northam Platinum Limited and US$3 million relates to the Groups investment in short-term available-for-sale equity securities.
Onerous contract provision The Group has recognised an onerous contract provision amounting to US$328 million 2011: US$nil in relation to its long-term contract with United Company RUSAL, a Russian aluminium producer.
The long-term contract requires a minimum delivery of approximately 1,200 ktpa of alumina and runs until the end of 2016.
The pricing under this contract is linked to the LME price of primary aluminium.
Due to a reduction in the estimated LME prices and an increased cost of production, the estimated unavoidable costs of meeting the contractual obligations as at 31 December 2012 exceed the economic benefits expected to be received from it.
The onerous contract provision balance in the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2012 amounted to US$328 million 2011:US$nil.
Of this amount, US$233 million is classified as a non-current liability, with the remaining US$95 million classified as a currentliability.
The principal assumptions made in calculating the onerous contract provision are as follows: discount rate of 7.34%, forecast commodity prices for alumina between US$333 t and US$377 t, and operating costs between US$421 t and US$452 t. Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 128 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 10.
General and administrative expenses Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Staff costs 271 233 1 Professional and other services 143 92 Sponsorship and donations 122 156 Taxes other than on income 38 36 Travel and entertainment 28 25 Depreciation and amortisation 23 17 Rent 16 17 Utilities and telecommunication services 10 11 Bank charges 10 8 Repairs and maintenance 8 8 Impairment provision of trade and other receivables 3 26 Insurance 3 5 Other 58 58 Total general and administrative expenses 733 692 1 Included within professional and other services are expenses of US$26 million 2011: US$2 million credit related to acquisition costs which are expensed under IFRS 3 revised.
Other operating income and expense Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Foreign exchange gains 95 124 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment 3 2 Gain on sale of other assets 11 12 Other 49 36 Total other operating income 158 174 Foreign exchange losses 105 133 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 5 7 Loss on sale of other assets 11 7 Other 52 45 Total other operating expense 173 192 Net other operating expense 15 18 12.
Employee benefit expense Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2012 2011 Wages and salaries 882 765 Compulsory social security costs 72 61 Expense related to defined benefit plans 30 26 9 Share-based payments 33 12 8 Contributions to defined contribution plans 3 3 Total employee benefit expense 995 846 Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 129 13.
Finance income Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Interest income 38 37 Foreign exchange gains 11 9 Unwinding gain on origination of loan 2 2 Fair value gain on financial assets liabilities 7 Dividends 1 Other 2 12 Total finance income 60 61 14.
Finance cost Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Interest expense on borrowings 228 77 Amortisation of financial instruments discount 26 9 Foreign exchange losses 17 39 Unwinding of asset retirement obligations discount 13 7 Unwinding of employee benefits obligations discount 4 3 Other 57 49 Finance cost 345 184 Less: amounts capitalised on qualifying assets 59 Total finance cost 286 184 15.
Income taxes Income tax expense comprises the following: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Current tax Corporate income tax current period 392 634 Corporate income tax prior periods 4 36 Withholding taxes 25 46 Total current tax 421 716 Deferred tax Deferred income tax current period origination and reversal of temporary differences 109 54 Deferred income tax prior periods 10 1 Deferred income tax effect of changes in tax legislation Total deferred tax 119 53 Total income tax expense for the period 302 769 Factors affecting future tax charges Future tax charges are affected by changes to the applicable laws and regulations in, as well as profit mix from, the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Given that the Group is subject to Excess Profits Tax in the Republic of Kazakhstan, future tax charges are also affected by product prices and profitability levels achieved on subsurface use contracts in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The applicable rate of Corporate Income Tax in the UK was reduced from 26% to 24% with effect from 1 April 2012.
A further reduction to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013 was enacted on 17 July 2012.
Proposals to reduce the rate to 21% from 1 April 2014 and to 20% from 1 April 2015 have also been announced.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 130 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15.
Income taxes continued Tax charge reconciliation Reconciliation between the actual tax charge for the period and the expected tax charge on the profit before tax for the period at the tax rate of 20% applicable in the Republic of Kazakhstan, where the majority of the Groups operations are located, is provided below: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Loss profit before income tax 550 2,755 Notional tax benefit charge at 20% 2011: 20% 110 551 Excess profits tax current period 22 69 Withholding taxes 25 46 Effect of different tax rates in other countries 37 25 Items not deductible for tax purposes 89 75 Income not chargeable for tax purposes 54 40 Losses not recognised for tax purposes 148 60 Recognition or utilisation of unrecognised losses 2 Prior period adjustments 7 35 Impairments and onerous contract provision 202 Other 24 Income tax expense for the year 302 769 The aggregate amount of income tax related to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income was US$nil 2011: US$nil.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax movements for the year are summarised below as follows: Other Unrealised Accelerated short-term Asset intercompany Mineral capital timing retirement Tax profit rights allowances differences obligations losses eliminated Other Total As at 31 December 2011 886 459 36 17 29 24 11 1,228 Acquisitions and disposals 799 50 2 1 1 853 Charged credited to income statement 35 55 1 16 1 13 24 119 Exchange differences 54 2 1 3 1 55 At 31 December 2012 1,596 456 34 32 33 11 35 1,907 Represented by: Deferred tax asset 69 Deferred tax liability 1,976 Net deferred tax liability 1,907 As at 31 December 2010 as previously reported 837 389 42 13 27 20 9 1,115 Acquisitions and disposals 112 112 Charged credited to income statement 14 73 6 4 2 4 2 53 Exchange differences 49 3 52 At 31 December 2011 886 459 36 17 29 24 11 1,228 Represented by: Deferred tax asset 49 Deferred tax liability 1,277 Net deferred tax liability 1,228 The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses of US$374 million 2011: US$189 million.
Of this amount, US$110 million 2011: US$40 million relates to losses which expire within 10 years, and US$264 million 2011: US$149 million relates to losses which have no expiry date.
Deferred income tax is not provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interests in joint ventures where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments is US$6,608 million 2011: US$8,385 million.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 131 16.
Earnings per share Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ unless stated otherwise 2012 2011 Loss profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 804 1,974 Number of shares: Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic earnings per share 1,287,750,000 1,287,750,000 Adjusted for: Potential share based awards under Deferred Share Plan 1,229,371 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 1,288,979,371 1,287,750,000 Loss earnings per share basic and diluted US cents 62 153 Earnings per share adjusted Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ unless stated otherwise 2012 2011 Adjusted profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company refer to note 38 533 1,998 Earnings per share basic and diluted adjusted US cents 41 155 17.
Property, plant and equipment Buildings Freehold and mining Mineral Plant and Assets under In millions of US$ land assets rights equipment Vehicles construction Total Cost at 1 January 2012 55 2,153 3,138 3,659 1,113 1,950 12,068 Additions 13 75 2 323 98 1,981 2,492 Additions on business combinations note 5 223 2,964 272 37 538 4,034 Change in asset retirement costs 55 6 11 72 Transfers 353 482 267 1,102 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 6 6 Disposals 36 61 30 47 174 Exchange differences 1 36 161 53 20 41 312 At 31 December 2012 67 2,787 5,943 4,628 1,465 3,284 18,174 Accumulated depreciation at 1 January 2012 528 75 1,181 393 2,177 Disposals 5 51 29 85 Depreciation charge 146 102 377 110 735 Impairment charge 2 245 63 285 41 153 789 Exchange differences 10 17 6 33 At 31 December 2012 2 904 240 1,775 509 153 3,583 Carrying value at 31 December 2012 65 1,883 5,703 2,853 956 3,131 14,591 Additions to assets under construction included US$59 million capitalised borrowing costs 2011: US$nil.
The average capitalisation rate was 6% for the year ended 31 December 2012 2011: US$nil.
During the year, there was a US$789 million impairment charge with respect to property, plant and equipment 2011: US$nil.
Refer to note 9 for the detailed impact of this charge.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 132 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17.
Property, plant and equipment continued Buildings Freehold and mining Mineral Plant and Assets under In millions of US$ land assets rights equipment Vehicles construction Total Cost at 1 January 2011 54 1,870 2,669 2,960 833 1,485 9,871 Additions 2 39 25 172 103 1,566 1,907 1 Additions relating to acquisition of assets 195 195 Additions on business combinations 399 399 Change in asset retirement costs 31 31 Transfers 227 7 608 202 1,044 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 1 6 1 6 12 Disposals 5 53 16 23 97 Exchange differences 1 10 157 22 8 28 226 At 31 December 2011 55 2,153 3,138 3,659 1,113 1,950 12,068 Accumulated depreciation at 1 January 2011 434 28 934 329 1,725 Disposals 3 47 15 65 Depreciation charge 100 48 305 84 537 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 3 1 4 Exchange differences 3 1 8 4 16 At 31 December 2011 528 75 1,181 393 2,177 Carrying value at 31 December 2011 55 1,625 3,063 2,478 720 1,950 9,891 1 Included within additions of mineral rights is the Groups US$195 million payment to acquire 100% of the ordinary shares of Dezita Investments Limited which owns Exploration Permit Number PE 1284 in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Goodwill and intangible assets Intangible In millions of US$ Note Goodwill assets Total Carrying amount at 1 January 2011 1,348 23 1,371 Acquisitions through business combinations 86 86 Additions 14 14 Impairment 7 7 Exchange differences 54 54 Carrying amount at 31 December 2011 1,373 37 1,410 1 Acquisitions through business combinations 5 910 910 Additions 47 47 Amortisation 2 2 Disposals 4 4 2 Derecognition relating to acquisition of Camrose 5 277 277 Impairment 9 273 273 Exchange differences 56 1 57 Carrying amount at 31 December 2012 1,677 77 1,754 1 During the year, goodwill arose on the acquisition of the remaining interests in Camrose and Shubarkol and on the FQM transaction.
2 Goodwill arising on the acquisition of RPM, part of the FQM transaction, relates to synergy benefits arising in respect of the Camrose joint venture at the time of acquisition, refer to note 5 for further details.
This goodwill is subsequently derecognised on the acquisition of Camrose in 2012.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 133 The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units CGUs as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Ferroalloys Division Kazchrome 211 214 Other 8 8 Iron Ore Division Brazil 430 468 SSGPO 144 146 Alumina and Aluminium Division 3 3 Other Non-ferrous Division RTR and other Camrose subsidiaries 386 Frontier 96 Chambishi 97 193 Boss Mining Group 179 1 Other 126 135 Energy Division 176 27 Goodwill carrying amount 1,677 1,373 1 Included within other in the Other Non-ferrous Division is goodwill related to exploration and evaluation assets.
Goodwill is allocated to the CGU expected to benefit from the business combination.
Typically this is in accordance with the Groups operating segments.
Goodwill is tested for impairment in accordance with the policy disclosed in note 1.
The Group considered the relationship between its market capitalisation and its book value, among other factors, when reviewing for indicators of impairment.
At the date of impairment testing, the market capitalisation of the Group was below the book value of its equity, indicating a potential impairment of goodwill and assets of the operating segments.
Furthermore, difficult market conditions with an overall decline in the commodity prices have adversely impacted results and the cash flows of certain CGUs.
The annual impairment review resulted in an impairment loss of US$273 million to goodwill 2011: US$7 million.
Refer to note 9 for further details.
Following the impairment review and recognition of the above impairment loss, the market capitalisation of the Group continues to be below the book value of its equity at 31 December 2012.
However, the Group consider that the value of the CGUs in aggregate exceeds the market capitalisation at this date.
Investments in joint ventures and associates As at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, investments in joint ventures and associates consisted of the following: In millions of US$ unless stated otherwise As at 31 December 2012 As at 31 December 2011 Associate Carrying Effective Carrying Effective Investee joint venture Country of incorporation Principal activities value ownership value ownership Xinjiang Aismir Coking Coal Joint venture China Production of coke and coke 8 67.4% 1,2 Co. Ltd by-products Taurus Gold Limited Joint venture British Virgin Islands Development of gold deposits 1 34.8% 8 34.8% 3 Camrose Resources Limited Joint venture British Virgin Islands Development of copper and 168 50.5% cobaltdeposits 1,3 Shubarkol Komir JSC Associate Kazakhstan Semi-coke thermal coal production 213 24.1% Earth Centre Investments Associate Namibia Property investment 50.0% 4 Pty Limited Total 9 389 1 Effective ownership represents the Groups interests in joint ventures and associates considering non-controlling interests.
2 Xinjiang Aismir Coking Coal Co. Ltd Asmare JV was acquired on 16 April 2012 as part of the Shubarkol acquisition.
3 The Groups interest in these entities increased during the year and they are now subsidiaries.
4 This investment was disposed of during 2012.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 134 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19.
Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Movements in the carrying value of the investments in associates are set out in the following table: In millions of US$ Note 2012 2011 Carrying value at 1 January 213 210 Dividends 9 Share of profit of associates 14 Reversal of net debt 7 Acquisition through business combinations a 5 220 Exchange differences 2 At 31 December 213 Movements in the carrying value of the investments in joint ventures are set out in the following table: In millions of US$ Note 2012 2011 Carrying value at 1 January 176 183 Acquisition through business combinations a 5 22 Acquisition of outstanding interest in Camrose b 5 137 Share of loss of joint ventures 39 12 Impairment of interest in Asmare JV c 13 Acquisition of additional investment in Taurus Gold 7 Adjustment of acquisition costs 2 At 31 December 9 176 a Acquisition of outstanding interest in Shubarkol On 16 February 2009, the Group acquired 25% of the ordinary shares in Shubarkol, a semi-coke and thermal coal producer incorporated in Kazakhstan.
On 16 April 2012, the Group completed the purchase of the remaining 75% of the outstanding ordinary shares of Shubarkol which holds 100% of the ordinary shares of Sary-Arka Spetskoks LLP and indirectly 70% of the ordinary shares of Xinjiang Aismir Coking Coal Co. Ltd Asmare JV.
Shubarkol is now a fully consolidated subsidiary, however, Asmare JV is accounted for as a joint venture.
This investment is deemed a joint venture as according to the joint venture charter, all strategic decisions, including decisions over distribution and reinvestment policy and approval of the annual business plan, should be taken through a unanimous approval of the joint ventures owners.
b Acquisition of outstanding interests in joint ventures In August 2010, the Group purchased 50.5% of the issued share capital of Camrose and formed the Camrose joint venture.
From this time, the Group exercised day-to-day operational control, however, due to certain reserved matters in the shareholders agreement governing the relationship, the investment was accounted for as a joint venture.
On 20 August 2012, the guarantee provided by the Group to secure repayment of US$155 million Cerida debt was discharged.
In December 2012, the Group acquired the remaining 49.5% of Camrose.
c Impairment of interest in Asmare JV Subsequent to the acquisition, the Group is continuing to review its strategic options in respect of Asmare JV.
As a consequence of the uncertainty regarding the future development of this investment an impairment charge of US$13 million has been recognised.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 135 Summary financial information Summary financial information for the associates for the years ended and as at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, not adjusted for the percentage ownership held by the Group, is as follows: Associates In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Total assets 229 Total liabilities 135 Net assets 94 1 Total revenue 76 192 1 Net loss profit 1 56 1 For the year ended 31 December 2012, total revenue and net loss represents the period prior to the acquisition of the remaining 75% interest in the ordinary shares of Shubarkol in April 2012.
Summary financial information for the joint ventures for the years ended and as at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, adjusted for the percentage ownership held by the Group, is as follows: Joint ventures In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Non-current assets 15 93 Current assets 8 68 Non-current liabilities 2 178 Current liabilities 3 6 Non-controlling interests 8 Net assets liabilities 18 15 Total income 9 4 Total expenses 64 19 Other comprehensive income 3 3 Non-controlling interests 16 1 1 Total comprehensive expense 36 13 1 For the year ended 31 December 2012, total comprehensive expense includes the Groups share of Camrose for the period prior to the acquisition of the remaining 49.5%interest in December 2012.
The Groups share of capital commitments of joint ventures in respect of property, plant and equipment was US$nil 2011: US$5 million.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 136 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 20.
Other financial assets As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Non-current Investments in quoted equity shares a 232 191 Other b 29 16 Total non-current other financial assets 261 207 Current Investments in quoted equity shares c 12 11 Other d 50 Total current other financial assets 62 11 Total other financial assets 323 218 a Non-current investments in quoted equity shares comprise the Groups interest in Northam Platinum Limited Northam, a major South African platinum producer.
During 2012, a US$41 million gain has been recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income in respect of this investment 2011: US$163 million loss.
This investment is being held as an available-for-sale non-current asset as it is intended to be held for longer than one year and is considered to be strategic in nature.
This investment has been impaired in the year, refer to note 9 for further details.
b Other non-current financial assets comprise US$23 million of other related party non-current financial assets 2011: US$16 million and US$6 million of other third party non-current financial assets 2011: US$nil.
c Investments in listed equity shares represent short-term available-for-sale equity securities.
In 2012, a US$1 million gain 2011: US$12 million loss has been recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income in respect of the short-term available-forsale equity securities.
d Other current financial assets include US$47 million of investments in Guaranteed Investment Certificates GICs with Canadian financial institutions acquired as part of the Camrose transaction in December 2012.
These GICs are yielding interest at rates ranging from 1.00% to 1.45% and have original maturity dates of greater than three months but not more than one year.
All changes in fair value of financial assets are attributable to changes in market conditions.
Financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 South African rand 232 191 Canadian dollar 57 9 Kazakhstani tenge 15 10 US dollar 14 6 British pound 3 2 European euro 2 Total other financial assets 323 218 Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 137 21.
Loans receivable As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2012 2011 Non-current Loans receivable from related parties 4 13 199 Loans receivable 31 26 Total non-current loans receivable 44 225 Current Loans receivable 3 2 Total current loans receivable 3 2 Total loans receivable 47 227 The Groups loans receivable mature as follows: In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Less than 1 year 3 2 Between 1 and 2 years 12 3 Between 2 and 3 years 2 Between 3 and 4 years 2 25 Between 4 and 5 years 2 35 Between 5 and 10 years 19 145 Greater than 10 years 7 17 Total loans receivable 47 227 The Groups loans receivable are denominated in currencies as follows: In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Kazakhstani tenge 31 25 US dollar 14 201 British pound 2 1 Total loans receivable 47 227 The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date for interest bearing loans receivable were as follows: Effective interest rate As at 31 December In millions of US$ Loan currency Maturity 2012 2011 2012 2011 Non-current Loans receivable from related parties US$ 2020 8% n a 6 Loans receivable from related parties US$ 2014 2% 2% 5 5 Loans receivable from related parties GBP 2014 n a n a 2 1 1 Loans receivable from related parties US$ n a n a 8% 193 Total related party 13 199 Loans receivable KZT Various 1-12% 1-12% 25 19 Loans receivables non-interest bearing KZT Various n a n a 3 4 Loans receivable US$ 2014 n a n a 3 3 Total third party 31 26 Total non-current loans receivable 44 225 Current Loans receivables non-interest bearing Various Various n a n a 3 2 Total third party 3 2 Total current loans receivable 3 2 Total loans receivable 47 227 1 In 2011, a non-current loan receivable from related parties of US$193 million related to the shareholder loan facility, which was provided to Camrose during 2010 for repaying committed loans previously undertaken by Camrose, funding working capital, commencing feasibility studies, as well as planning and development.
As a result of the completion of the acquisition of Camrose in December 2012, the outstanding balance for this loan as at 31 December 2012 was treated as an intercompany loan and was eliminated on consolidation.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 138 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21.
Loans receivable continued The fair values of the Groups loans receivable are as follows: Carrying values Fair values In millions of US$ 2012 2011 2012 2011 Loans receivable 34 28 34 28 Loans receivable from related parties 13 199 13 216 Total loans receivable 47 227 47 244 The fair values of current and non-current loans receivable are determined using discounted cash flows at the interest rates prevailing as at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011.
Other non-current assets As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Prepayments for property, plant and equipment and related services 271 310 Long-term inventory 19 19 Other advances and non-current assets 14 20 Provision for impairment 1 Total other non-current assets 303 349 Prepayments for property, plant and equipment and related services are for machinery and equipment.
Included in the prepayments are US$5 million 2011: US$3 million of letters of credit with Eurasian Bank JSC pertaining to purchases of property, plant and equipment, refer to note 4.
Other advances and non-current assets includes US$6 million 2011: US$2 million related to the advances made to Kazakhstan Temir Zholy JSC KTG, a Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan related entity, refer to note 4 for further details.
Long-term inventory consists of the slag dump of chrome ore which was recorded at fair value of US$25 million at the date of the Serov acquisition.
During 2012, US$1 million of the slag dump was processed 2011: US$1 million.
At 31 December 2012, the total balance of the slag dump is US$21 million 2011: US$21 million, of which US$2 million 2011: US$2 million is recorded within current inventory.
The value of the slag dump remains unchanged between 2011 and 2012 mainly due to movements in the Russian rouble exchange rate.
Inventories As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Finished goods 379 294 Raw materials 370 283 Consumable stores 293 217 Work-in-progress 187 166 Other inventory 102 87 Less provision for obsolete and slow-moving inventory 39 20 Total inventories 1,292 1,027 Inventory write-downs recognised in the Consolidated income statement during the year amounted to US$32 million 2011: US$19 million.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 139 24.
Trade and other receivables As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2012 2011 Trade receivables 559 661 1 Restricted cash 53 125 Term deposits with related parties 4 22 22 Term deposits 5 3 Letters of credit with related parties 4 2 14 Other receivables 25 46 Other amounts due from related parties 4 24 30 2 Less impairment loss provision 30 28 Total trade and other receivables financial assets net 660 873 Other taxes 294 217 Prepaid expenses 38 67 Advances to suppliers 39 57 Advances to related parties 4 15 5 Prepaid expenses to related parties 4 10 4 Less impairment loss provision Total trade and other receivables non-financial assets net 396 350 Total trade and other receivables 1,056 1,223 1 In 2012, restricted cash relates to guarantees and letters of credit in the normal course of business 2011: restricted cash of US$125 million relates to the deposit paid in relation to the FQM transaction in 2012.
2 The impairment loss provision includes US$10 million recognised against a receivable in Masalskoe GOK LLP during 2011.
For further details refer to note 4.
The fair value of trade and other receivables financial assets approximates their carrying value.
As at 31 December 2012, trade and other receivables financial assets of US$86 million 2011: US$28 million were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
With respect to trade and other receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as at the reporting date that the customers will not meet their payment obligations.
The overdue analysis of these receivables is as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Current and not impaired 576 845 Less than 3 months overdue 67 17 Between 3 to 6 months overdue 3 8 Between 6 to 12 months overdue 13 2 Over 12 months overdue 3 1 Total past due but not impaired 86 28 Individually determined to be impaired gross 28 28 Total individually impaired 28 28 Total trade and other receivables financial assets 690 901 Less impairment loss provision 30 28 Total trade and other receivables financial assets net 660 873 Movements of the impairment provision of trade and other receivables financial assets during the year are as follows: Impairment loss provision In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Balance as at 1 January 28 11 Impairment loss recognised in income statement 3 26 Amounts written off as uncollectable 1 6 Unused amounts reversed 3 Balance as at 31 December 30 28 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 140 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 24.
Trade and other receivables continued The trade and other receivables financial assets are denominated in various currencies as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 US dollar 527 700 Russian rouble 68 106 Kazakhstani tenge 50 39 European euro 10 20 British pound 1 Other 4 8 Total trade and other receivables financial assets net 660 873 The interest rate profile of the Groups interest-bearing trade and other receivables financial assets is as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Fixed interest rate 25 36 Floating interest rate 47 All other trade and other receivables financial assets are non-interest bearing.
Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Short-term deposits 401 404 Cash at bank and on hand 297 218 Total cash and cash equivalents 698 622 The cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 US dollar 490 343 Kazakhstani tenge 86 147 Russian rouble 79 73 European euro 17 11 Brazilian real 8 2 British pound 7 18 South African rand 7 12 Swiss franc 4 2 Chinese renminbi 13 Other 1 Total cash and cash equivalents 698 622 The interest rate profile of the interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents is as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Fixed interest rate 302 387 Floating interest rate 327 191 All other cash and cash equivalents are non-interest bearing.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 141 26.
Cash flow from operating activities Years ended 31 December 1 In millions of US$ Note 2012 2011 Cash flow from operating activities Loss profit before income tax for the year 550 2,755 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 691 515 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 5 Net gain arising from business combinations 5 89 Onerous contract provision 9 328 Adjustment to contingent consideration for Rubio Holdings 8 Gain on disposal of assets and liabilities classified as held for sale 1 Share of loss profit from joint ventures and associates 19 39 2 Share-based payments 33 10 8 Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and non-current assets 9 1,216 24 Impairment loss on receivables 3 26 Impairment of inventories 20 Net finance cost 226 123 Net foreign exchange gain 14 32 1,873 3,422 Changes in inventories 232 173 Changes in trade and other receivables 146 169 Changes in trade and other payables 68 10 Changes in asset retirement obligations 12 7 Changes in employee benefit obligations 22 6 Changes in other taxes payable 20 25 Cash generated from operating activities 1,909 3,044 1 Reclassification of year ended 31 December 2011 is due to net foreign exchange gain and impairment of property, plant and equipment being reanalysed.
Capital and dividends Share capital and share premium Number Ordinary shares Share premium issued and fully paid US$000 US$000 At 31 December 2012 1,287,750,000 257,550 2,999,023 At 31 December 2011 1,287,750,000 257,550 2,999,023 As at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, total authorised capital is 2,000,000,000 ordinary shares with a par value of US$0.20 each.
Of the ordinary shares authorised, 1,287,750,000 have been issued and fully paid with a par value of US$0.20 each and a share premium of US$2.33.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
Dividends For the years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, the following dividends were declared and paid by the Group: 2012 2011 US cents In millions of US cents In millions of per share US$ per share US$ Prior year final dividend 11 142 18 232 Interim dividend 6.5 83 16 206 Total dividends 225 438 The Board of Directors does not recommended a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The full year dividend for 2012 is US 6.5 cents per share.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 142 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 28.
Borrowings As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2012 2011 Non-current Bank borrowings 4,202 325 Term borrowings 7 2 Promissory notes 451 Bonds 14 Non-current borrowings third party 4,660 341 Bank borrowings 394 393 Term borrowings 500 500 Non-current borrowings related party 4 894 893 Total non-current borrowings 5,554 1,234 Current Bank borrowings 232 263 Term borrowings 1 Promissory notes 15 Bonds 14 Current borrowings third party 261 264 Bank borrowings 7 7 Term borrowings 11 14 Promissory notes 75 Current borrowings related party 4 18 96 Total current borrowings 279 360 Total borrowings 5,833 1,594 The carrying values and fair values of borrowings are as follows: Carrying values Fair values In millions of US$ 2012 2011 2012 2011 Bank borrowings 4,835 988 4,799 940 Term borrowings 518 517 466 451 Promissory notes 466 75 509 75 Bonds 14 14 14 14 Total borrowings 5,833 1,594 5,788 1,480 The fair value of borrowings is determined using discounted cash flows at the discount rates for the relevant facilities as at the balance sheet date.
The Groups borrowings mature as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Less than 1 year 279 360 Between 1 and 2 years 2,517 196 Between 2 and 3 years 1,163 54 Between 3 and 4 years 731 33 Between 4 and 5 years 231 52 Between 5 and 10 years 804 753 Between 10 and 15 years 108 146 Total borrowings 5,833 1,594 Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 143 The Groups borrowings are denominated in currencies as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 US dollar 5,555 1,447 European euro 264 129 Kazakhstani tenge 14 15 Chinese renminbi 3 Total borrowings 5,833 1,594 The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date for current and non-current borrowings were as follows: Effective interest rate As at 31 December In millions of US$ Borrowing currency Maturity 2012 2011 2012 2011 Third party Bank borrowings g US$ 2013 LIBOR 3.37% LIBOR 3.37% 167 Bank borrowings c US$ 2014-2016 6.10% 6.10% 992 40 Bank borrowings c US$ 2014 LIBOR 6.25% n a 992 Bank borrowings b US$ 2017 LIBOR 6.30% n a 1,984 Bank borrowings i EUR 2021 EURIBOR 1.2% EURIBOR 1.2% 160 43 Bank borrowings i EUR 2020 EURIBOR 1.5% EURIBOR 1.5% 50 48 Bank borrowings i EUR 2020 EURIBOR 0.5% EURIBOR 0.5% 24 27 Promissory notes e US$ 2015 3.0% n a 451 Bonds KZT 2013 2-10% 2-10% 14 Non-interest bearing term borrowings Various 7 2 Total third party 4,660 341 Related party Bank borrowings h US$ 2025 4.0% 4.0% 394 393 Term borrowings f US$ 2020 7.5% 7.5% 500 500 Total related party 894 893 Total non-current 5,554 1,234 Third party Bank borrowings g US$ 2013 LIBOR 3.37% LIBOR 3.37% 167 200 Bank borrowings b US$ 2017 LIBOR 6.30% n a 14 Bank borrowings c US$ 2014-2016 6.10% 6.10% 8 Bank borrowings c US$ 2014 LIBOR 6.25% n a 13 Bank borrowings d US$ 2012 LIBOR 2.5% LIBOR 2.25% 50 Bank borrowings i EUR 2021 EURIBOR 1.2% EURIBOR 1.2% 20 Bank borrowings i EUR 2020 EURIBOR 1.5% EURIBOR 1.5% 6 6 Bank borrowings i EUR 2020 EURIBOR 0.5% EURIBOR 0.5% 4 4 Bank borrowings CNY 2012 n a 6.0% 3 Promissory notes e US$ 2015 3.0% n a 15 Bonds KZT 2013 2-10% 2-10% 14 Other non-interest bearing term borrowings Various 1 Total third party 261 264 Related party Bank borrowings h US$ 2025 4.0% 4.0% 7 7 Term borrowings f US$ 2020 7.5% 7.5% 11 11 Promissory notes e US$ 2011-2012 n a n a 75 Non-interest bearing term borrowings Various 3 Total related party 18 96 Total current 279 360 Total borrowings 5,833 1,594 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 144 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 28.
Borrowings continued a Export Credit Facility ECA Facility On 21 December 2012, the Group entered into an ECA Facility agreement for the amount of 74.8 million.
The agreement has a 10.5 year maturity with a three-year draw down availability period and bears an interest rate of six-month EURIBOR plus 1.1% per annum.
Euler Hermes Kreditversicherungs AG has provided credit insurance to support the facility.
At 31 December 2012 there were no drawings under this facility.
b Sberbank of Russia On 1 February 2012, the Group entered into a credit facility agreement with Sberbank of Russia for US$2,000 million.
The facility has an applicable interest rate of LIBOR plus 6.3% and is repayable in five years.
The full amount was drawn down at 31 December 2012. c Russian Commercial Bank Cyprus Limited part of the VTB Group On 30 September 2011, the Group entered into a US$1,000 million loan agreement with Russian Commercial Bank Cyprus Limited part of the VTB group.
The loan has an applicable interest rate of 6.1% per annum and is repayable initially in 3 years by bullet repayment with a two-year term-out option.
No security has been pledged as part of the agreement and it was fully drawn down as at 31 December 2012 2011: US$40 million.
On 25 April 2012, the Group entered into a second US$1,000 million term loan facility.
The facility bears an applicable interest rate of LIBOR plus 6.25% per annum and is repayable in two years by bullet repayment.
The full amount was drawn down at 31 December 2012. d Revolving Credit Facility On 16 February 2012, the Group signed the refinancing of the US$500 million revolving credit facility.
The amount of the facility was reduced to US$467 million and has been arranged on a club deal basis with Credit Agricole acting as the coordinating bank.
This is a two-year facility and bears an interest rate of LIBOR plus 2.5%.
As at 31 December 2012 there were no drawings under this facility.
e Promissory Notes As part of the FQM transaction, announced on 2 March 2012, the total consideration included deferred consideration of US$500 million.
This is in the form of a three-year promissory note with an interest coupon of 3% per annum.
In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement, this was measured at fair value of US$441 million at the time of the transaction and US$466 million as at 31 December 2012.
In August 2010, as part of its acquisition of the initial 50.5% interest in Camrose, the Group issued promissory notes at nominal value totalling US$125 million which matured between 9 months and 24 months from the date of issue.
As at 31 December 2012, the carrying value of the promissory notes outstanding was US$nil 2011: US$75 million.
f JSC Wealth Fund Samruk Kazyna On 30 November 2010, the Group entered into a US$500 million facility with the JSC Wealth Fund Samruk Kazyna.
No security has been pledged as part of the agreement and it was fully drawn down as at 31 December 2012 2011: fully drawn down.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 145 g Structured Trade Finance Facility On 5 October 2010, the Group entered into a US$500 million Structured Trade Finance Facility with a group of international lenders.
The facility has an applicable interest rate of one month LIBOR plus 3.37% and is repayable over three years.
As at 31 December 2012 US$167 million of the facility was outstanding 2011: US$367 million.
The facility is secured principally against trade receivables from the Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel Works OJSC MMK, the associated trade receivable balance as at 31 December 2012 was US$51 million 2011: US$35 million.
h Development Bank of Kazakhstan Facility On 15 April 2010, the Group entered into a loan agreement for the amount of US$400 million with the Development Bank of Kazakhstan.
The facility was provided by the Development Bank of Kazakhstan using financing from the State-run Export-Import Bank of China.
The loan is secured by a corporate guarantee issued by ENRC PLC and a pledge over 51% of the shares of Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter JSC.
i Export Credit Facilities On 7 February 2011, the Group entered into an ECA Facility agreement for the amount of 185 million.
The agreement has an 11-year maturity and bears an interest rate of six month EURIBOR plus 1.2% per annum.
The purpose of the facility is to finance the Groups capital expenditure in the new Aktobe ferroalloys smelter.
At 31 December 2012, US$180 million of the facility was outstanding 2011: US$43 million.
On 16 February 2010, the Group entered into an ECA Facility agreement for the amount of 47.5 million.
The facility has a 10-year maturity and bears an interest rate of six month EURIBOR plus 1.5% per annum.
The facility will be used to finance some of the Groups planned capital expenditure.
As at 31 December 2012 US$56 million of the facility was outstanding 2011: US$54 million.
On 30 November 2007, the Group entered into an unsecured 32.5 million ECA Facility.
The facility has an applicable interest rate of six month EURIBOR plus 0.5% per annum and matures on 20 February 2020.
The purpose of the facility is to finance an export contract with Takraf GmbH.
As at 31 December 2012 US$28 million of the facility was outstanding 2011: US$31 million.
j Euro Medium Term Notes On 13 May 2010, the Group established a Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme for US$3,000 million.
Subject to relevant laws and regulations notes can be issued in a variety of forms and for a range of maturity periods.
Proceeds from any issues under the programme may be used for the Groups capital expenditure programme, potential future acquisitions and for general corporate purposes.
There were no issues outstanding under the programme as at 31 December 2012 2011: US$nil.
Undrawn Loan Commitments As at 31 December 2012 the Group had US$609 million of undrawn committed facilities 2011: US$1,577 million.
Included within undrawn committed facilities as at 31 December 2012 is US$467 million relating to the undrawn portion of the Revolving Credit Facility.
On 12 February 2013 this facility was refinanced with a US$500 million Revolving Credit Facility: please refer to note 40 for further details.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 146 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29.
Asset retirement obligations The Group has a legal obligation to complete landfill site restoration during mining operations and decommission its mining property after closure.
The timing of decommissioning activity is subject to reassessment at the same time as the revision of the Groups proved and probable reserves.
As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2012 2011 Current provision for asset retirement obligations 31 4 3 Non-current provision for asset retirement obligations 223 124 Total provision for asset retirement obligations 227 127 Movements in asset retirement obligations are as follows: Assets Site decommissioning restoration and In millions of US$ Note costs re-vegetation Total As at 1 January 2012 56 71 127 Capitalisation 32 40 72 Acquisition of subsidiary 7 7 Transfer 3 3 Production costs 13 13 Unwinding of discount 14 3 10 13 Utilisation 1 1 Exchange differences 1 3 4 As at 31 December 2012 87 140 227 As at 1 January 2011 22 74 96 Capitalisation 30 1 31 Changes in estimate 1 4 5 Transfer 4 4 Unwinding of discount 14 2 5 7 Utilisation 2 2 Exchange differences 1 1 As at 31 December 2011 56 71 127 In accordance with its subsurface use contracts, the Group makes annual obligatory contributions to a deposit fund for the closure costs which will take effect upon exhaustion of the mineral deposits at the end of the respective mine lives, which varies between 7and 46 years.
The amount of the provision for asset retirement obligations is determined using the nominal prices effective at the reporting dates and applying the forecasted rate of inflation for the expected period of the life of the mines.
Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning and reclamation alternatives and the level of discount and inflation rates.
Principal assumptions made in calculations of asset retirement obligations are presented below: 2012 2011 Kazakhstani Russian African Kazakhstani Russian African entities entities entities entities entities entities Discount rate 5.8% 7.5% 8.0%-13.5% 7.9% 9.2% 8.0%-15.4% Inflation rate 5.6%-6.9% 5.0%-6.5% 2.0%-9.0% 4.5%-6.2% 5.2%-6.5% 1.2%-9.0% Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 147 30.
Employee benefit obligations The Group provides long-term employee benefits to employees before, on and after retirement, in accordance with labour union agreements.
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as follows: In millions of US$ Note 2012 2011 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligation as at 1 January 53 41 Acquisition of subsidiary 3 Interest cost 14 4 3 Benefits paid 4 3 Current service cost 3 1 Actuarial losses 23 8 Exchange differences 1 3 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 83 53 The present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations as at 31 December 2010, 2009 and 2008 was US$41 million, US$46 million and US$37 million, respectively.
Amounts recognised in the Consolidated income statement in respect of the defined benefit plan are as follows: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2012 2011 1 Interest cost 14 4 3 2 Current service cost 3 1 2 Actuarial losses 23 8 Expense recognised in the Consolidated income statement 30 12 1 The interest cost is recognised in the finance cost line in the Consolidated income statement.
2 The current service cost and actuarial losses are recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated income statement: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2012 2011 Cost of sales 20 8 General and administrative expenses 6 1 Total expense 12 26 9 Principal actuarial assumptions used at the balance sheet date were as follows: As at 31 December 2012 2011 Discount rate 5.8%-14.0% 5.8%-9.2% Future salary increase 5.0%-11.0% 5.0%-10.0% Average labour turnover rate of production personnel 4.1%-15.8% 4.1%-19.4% Average labour turnover rate of administrative personnel 5.6%-12.3% 4.0%-12.5% Assumptions regarding future mortality are based upon advice in accordance with published statistics and experience.
The future average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65 on the balance sheet date are as follows: 2012 2011 Male 11 11 Female 15 15 The future average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date, is as follows: 2012 2011 Male 12 12 Female 16 16 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 148 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31.
Trade and other payables As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2012 2011 Trade payables 374 244 Payable to related parties 4 8 12 Distributions payable 12 11 Deferred and contingent consideration and acquisition related liabilities 5 285 484 Total trade and other payables financial 679 751 Advances received from customers 65 58 Accruals relating to employee entitlements 126 98 Asset retirement obligations 29 4 3 Other 100 70 Total trade and other payables non-financial 295 229 Total trade and other payables 974 980 The fair value of trade and other payables financial liabilities approximates their carrying amounts, as the impact of discounting is insignificant.
Other taxes payable As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Mineral extraction tax 33 39 VAT payable 17 8 Environmental taxes 13 12 Employee withholding taxes 11 7 Import duties 9 1 Social taxes 6 6 Other taxes 13 9 Total other taxes payable 102 82 Other taxes include property taxes, withholding taxes and employment insurance.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 149 33.
Share-based payments The Group has established a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and a Deferred Share Plan DSP with a view to attracting, retaining and motivating the Executive Directors and selected senior management.
The LTIP share awards are equity-settled share-based payment transactions except LTIP 4 which is a cash-settled award.
All LTIP share awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant date subject to achievement of performance targets except LTIP 5 which vest on the second anniversary of the grant date.
The LTIP performance target for the schemes prior to 2011 is based on the Groups total shareholder return TSR, ranked against a comparator group of other international mining companies over a three-year period.
Performance targets of the LTIP granted in 2011 and 2012 LTIP 4 and LTIP 5 respectively are measured as 50% relative to the performance of TSR, ranked against a comparator group of international mining companies and 50% on TSR performance relative to the MSCI World Metals & Mining Index.
LTIP 6 granted in 2012 will vest subject to the Groups TSR outperformance relative to the FTSE 350 Mining Index.
Since December 2011 two DSP awards have been granted.
DSP 1 granted in 2011 is cash-settled and DSP 2 granted in 2012 is equitysettled.
The participants of the DSP received awards over ordinary shares of the Company in the form of rights to acquire a specified number of ordinary shares either by issue or transfer of ordinary shares at the end of the vesting period or rights to call for ordinary shares at the end of vesting period and for a predetermined period thereafter.
Further information on the LTIP and DSP is disclosed in the Remuneration report on pages 76 to 85.
In circumstances where an employee ceases to be employed prior to the vesting date for these schemes for reasons except dismissal, the Board has the discretion to allow the employees award to vest to the extent they deem the performance target would have been satisfied if pro-rated to the date of cessation of employment.
Details of grants and assumptions in the calculation of fair value under the LTIP and DSP are set out in the table below: DSP 2 DSP 1 LTIP 6 LTIP 5 LTIP 4 LTIP 3 LTIP 2 Grant date 2 May 2012 21 December 2011 2 May 2012 2 May 2012 23 December 2011 26 April 2010 20 April 2009 Fair value per share in British pounds 5.11 3.00 1.87 1.88 0.13 9.23 3.97 Share price at grant date in British pounds 5.60 6.23 5.60 5.60 6.30 12.08 5.489 1 Estimated average volatility 46% 56% 46% 50% 56% 72% 70% 2 Estimated dividend yield 3.08% 3.38% 3.08% 3.08% 3.38% 2.23% 3.82% 3 Risk free interest rate 0.39% 0.16% 0.39% 0.27% 0.16% 1.67% 1.27% Exercise price in British pounds Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 2 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 1 The Groups estimated share price volatility for plans prior to 2011 is based on the historical average annualised volatility of the comparator group of mining companies and reflects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the awards is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
For the plans from 2011, Groups historic share price data was used to calculate volatility.
2 The estimated dividend yield was based on the Groups historical dividend payments.
3 The risk free interest rate is a government bond rate over a period similar to the life of the awards.
The estimated fair value of each share granted under the LTIP and DSP is calculated by applying Monte Carlo and Black Scholes models respectively.
As at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 the median benchmark comparator was not met.
As a result LTIP 2 did not vest and LTIP 3 will not vest in 2013.
Recognition of services received An expense of US$12 million 2011: US$8 million for share-based payments was recognised during the year ended 31 December 2012 within employee benefit expense in the income statement.
During 2012 payments of US$nil 2011: US$nil were made to LTIP and DSP participants.
The expense in respect of the cash-settled schemes for 2011 was not material and therefore was included in the results for the year ended 31 December 2012 rather than year ended 31 December 2011.
The reduction in expense arising from a change in fair value of the liability for cash-settled plans between grant date and balance sheet date amounted to US$2.4 million.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 150 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33.
The weighted average remaining life of share options outstanding at the year ended 31 December 2012 was 604 days 2011: 273 days.
Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk including foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and commodity price risk.
The Group may use derivative financial instruments to hedge foreign exchange and interest rate exposures.
Financial risk management is the responsibility of the treasury function which identifies, evaluates and, if appropriate, hedges financial risks in close cooperation with the Groups operating divisions.
The Treasury Policy outlines principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
Credit risk The Group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets.
The Group has credit insurance for the majority of its sales.
Credit limits are set by the Group in accordance with limits provided by the credit insurance company.
The Group undertakes rigorous credit control procedures which are closely monitored by the Chief Commercial Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
These procedures are regularly reviewed in light of the limited availability of credit insurance.
As a general rule, for those sales to non-major customers where credit insurance is not available, the Group operates a policy of cash on delivery and letters of credit.
The Group has established relationships with a number of international and domestic banks in the areas in which the Group operates.
Individual credit limits are assigned to each counterparty according to an analysis of financial strength or published credit rating.
Limits and exposures to each counterparty are regularly monitored and reported at each Board meeting.
During the year a mixture of bank deposits and liquidity funds were used within the Groups investment portfolio.
Our policy is to invest surplus funds with good quality banks or liquidity funds.
Individual counterparty exposure limits are based on entity credit ratings published by at least one of the major credit rating agencies.
In some areas where the Group operates it is necessary to deal with counterparties that do not have the required credit rating as prescribed by the policy.
In these cases a counterparty limit will be calculated based on detailed credit analysis of the individual counterparty.
The resulting credit limits are reviewed frequently to ensure that they remain appropriate.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 151 The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk related to the uncollateralised balances to be as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2012 2011 Cash and cash equivalents 25 698 622 Trade and other receivables 24 660 873 Other financial assets 20 323 218 Loans receivable 21 47 227 Total maximum credit risk exposure 1,728 1,940 The maximum exposure to credit risk for cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, other financial assets and loans receivable by geographic region is as follows: As at 31 December 2012 Cash and cash Trade and other Other financial Loans In millions of US$ equivalents receivables assets receivable Total Eurasia 297 184 25 31 537 Europe and Middle East 314 214 6 534 Africa 60 25 236 16 337 Asia Pacific 224 224 Rest of the World 27 13 56 96 Total 698 660 323 47 1,728 As at 31 December 2011 Cash and cash Trade and other Other financial Loans In millions of US$ equivalents receivables assets receivable Total Eurasia 383 226 16 25 650 Europe and Middle East 186 134 2 322 Africa 39 174 191 202 606 Asia Pacific 326 326 Rest of the World 14 13 9 36 Total 622 873 218 227 1,940 In 2012 the top 10 customers as a proportion of the outstanding balance of the Groups trade receivables accounted for 25% 2011: 41%.
Based on historical default rates, the Group believes that no impairment review is necessary in respect of trade receivables not past due by up to 60 days.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions.
This is achieved by a combination of producing regular cash forecasts and ensuring that either adequate cash reserves or bank facilities are in place to meet future liabilities.
The following table summarises the Groups non-derivative financial assets and liabilities which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, translated at balance sheet date exchange rates.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 152 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 34.
Financial risk management continued Non-derivative financial assets and liabilities As at 31 December 2012 Total Less Carrying contractual than 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 After In millions of US$ Note amount cash flows 1 year years years years years 5 years Borrowings 28 5,833 7,010 564 2,795 1,406 910 298 1,037 Trade and other payables 31 679 679 679 1 Other non-current liabilities 8 10 7 1 2 Trade and other receivables 24 660 660 660 Cash and cash equivalents 25 698 698 698 2 Other financial assets 20 75 89 48 3 2 1 35 Loans receivable 21 47 49 6 9 3 3 5 23 Net position 5,040 6,203 169 2,790 1,402 907 292 981 As at 31 December 2011 Total Less Carrying contractual than 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 After In millions of US$ Note amount cash flows 1 year years years years years 5 years Borrowings 28 1,594 1,993 409 239 107 76 94 1,068 Trade and other payables 31 751 751 751 1 Other non-current liabilities 3 5 1 1 3 Trade and other receivables 24 873 873 873 Cash and cash equivalents 25 622 622 622 Loans receivable 21 227 241 4 6 21 52 158 2 Other financial assets 20 16 18 1 1 16 Net position 610 995 339 239 102 55 41 897 1 The other non-current liabilities total presented on the face of the balance sheet includes US$16 million of provisions and guarantees with no contractual cash flows 2011:US$12 million.
2 The other financial assets non-current and current totals presented on the face of the balance sheet includes US$244 million of investment in quoted equity shares with nocontractual cash flows 2011: US$202 million and derivative financial assets of US$2 million 2011: US$ nil.
Foreign currency risk The majority of the Groups production costs are denominated in Kazakhstani tenge KZT, Russian roubles RUB and US dollars US$ while the majority of sales are denominated in US dollars US$.
The Group is therefore exposed to the risk that movements in exchange rates will affect both its operating profit and cash flows.
The Group may enter into derivative financial instruments to hedge part or all of these risks.
The Groups foreign currency exposure arises from: Highly probable forecast transactions sales purchases denominated in foreign currencies: and Monetary items mainly intercompany receivables, payables and borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
During 2012 the Group swapped the majority of its ECA borrowing facilities to USD from EUR.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 153 The table below summarises the foreign currency exposure on the net monetary position of each Group entity against its respective functional currency, expressed in the Groups presentation currency.
2 In millions of US$ KZT US$ RUB EUR GBP ZAR Other As at 31 December 2012 Kazakhstani entities KZT n a 597 4 267 Marketing and holding entities US$ n a 58 231 48 232 10 Marketing Russian entities RUB 5 n a UK management entities GBP 207 n a Russian Serov entities RUB 33 n a 1 African entities primarily US$ 153 2 100 39 47 Brazilian entities BRL 322 Net monetary position 357 54 500 148 271 57 As at 31 December 2011 Kazakhstani entities KZT n a 1,105 7 37 Marketing and holding entities US$ 1 n a 35 109 22 191 9 Marketing Russian entities RUB 45 n a UK management entities GBP 96 n a 2 Russian Serov entities RUB 32 n a 1 African entities primarily US$ 45 79 78 9 Brazilian entities BRL 437 Net monetary position 1 514 42 146 101 115 1 US$ balances against African entities represents US$ balances in non US$ functional currency entities.
2 The other currency total of US$57 million in 2012 is primarily comprised of Canadian dollar balances.
In 2012 and 2011 intercompany balances are included to fully reflect the Groups exposure to foreign currency risk.
The principal exchange rates used for the British pound, Kazakhstani tenge, Russian rouble and Brazilian real are presented in note 1.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable possible change in the US dollar exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax.
In millions of US$ KZT US$ RUB EUR GBP ZAR Other As at 31 December 2012 Total foreign exchange risk 357 54 500 148 271 57 Appreciation in the US exchange rate 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% Increase decrease in profit equity due to appreciation ofUS dollar 18 3 25 7 14 3 As at 31 December 2011 Total foreign exchange risk 1 514 42 146 101 115 Appreciation in the US exchange rate 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% Increase decrease in profit equity due to appreciation ofUS dollar 26 2 7 5 6 The impact on income equity of a 5.0% depreciation of the US dollar is the equal opposite of the 5.0% appreciation shown above.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 154 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 34.
Financial risk management continued Interest rate risk The Group has financial assets and liabilities which are exposed to changes in market interest rates.
These assets and liabilities are exposed to fair value interest rate risk or cash flow interest rate risk depending on whether they are subject to fixed or floating rates of interest.
The objective of interest rate risk management is to manage and control interest rate risk exposures within acceptable parameters.
The Groups policy is to maintain a balance between fixed and floating interest rate risks.
This is principally achieved by using a mix of fixed and floating interest rate borrowings or if necessary, entering into derivative financial instruments to manage the interest rate of the debt portfolio.
The Groups significant interest bearing assets and liabilities are as follows: As at 31 December 2012 Non-interest In millions of US$ Note Fixed rate Floating rate bearing Total Trade and other receivables 24 25 47 588 660 Cash and cash equivalents 25 302 327 69 698 Loans receivable 21 32 15 47 Assets 359 374 672 1,405 Borrowings 28 2,378 3,448 7 5,833 Liabilities 2,378 3,448 7 5,833 Net position 2,019 3,074 665 4,428 Effect of a 1% increase in interest rates on profit before tax n a 31 n a 31 As at 31 December 2011 Non-interest In millions of US$ Note Fixed rate Floating rate bearing Total Trade and other receivables 24 36 837 873 Cash and cash equivalents 25 387 191 44 622 Loans receivable 21 203 24 227 Assets 626 191 905 1,722 Borrowings 28 1,029 560 5 1,594 Liabilities 1,029 560 5 1,594 Net position 403 369 900 128 Effect of a 1% increase in interest rates on profit before tax n a 4 n a 4 As shown above the impact on profit before tax of a 1% increase in interest rates would be a US$31 million decrease in profit before tax 2011: US$4 million decrease with an equal opposite effect if interest rates decreased by 1%.
The US$31 million profit before tax decrease 2011: US$4 million decrease is entirely attributable to cash flow risk floating rate interest as the Group does not re-measure fixed rate financial assets and liabilities to fair value.
The impact on equity is the same as the impact on income.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign exchange rates, remain constant.
Commodity price risk The Group generates most of its revenue from the sale of commodities primarily ferrochrome, chrome ore, iron ore, alumina, aluminium, cobalt and copper.
Historically, the prices of these products have been volatile and have fluctuated widely in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty, the performance of the global or regional economies and cyclicality in industries that are end users of these products.
Prices may also be affected by government actions, including the imposition of tariffs and import duties, speculative trades, the development of product substitutes or replacements, recycling practices, an increase in capacity or an oversupply of the Groups products in its main markets.
These external factors and the volatility of the commodity markets make it difficult to estimate future prices.
A substantial or extended decline in commodity prices would materially and adversely affect the Groups business and the financial results and cash flows of operations.
The Group does not hedge its exposure to the risk of fluctuations in the price of its products.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 155 The table below sets out the sensitivity of the Groups Underlying EBITDA to changes in commodity prices.
A 5% reduction in sales price, relative to the average for the year, would reduce Underlying EBITDA by: Year ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 High-carbon ferrochrome 81 92 Chrome ore 5 9 Iron ore 90 121 Alumina 16 22 Aluminium 27 32 Cobalt 12 18 Copper 14 11 Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group intends to maintain a capital structure in line with industrys norms and practices which will be achieved over a period of time, taking into account investment opportunities and availability of debt finance.
The Group considers the following balances as a part of its capital management: As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2012 2011 Borrowings 28 5,833 1,594 Share capital and share premium 27 3,257 3,257 1 Reserves 6,489 7,643 Total capital 15,579 12,494 1 Reserves include retained earnings, translation reserve and revaluation reserve of financial assets available for sale.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to manage its debt level.
Reconciliations of the Groups gearing and net debt position can be found in note 38.
The Groups credit ratings are currently BBwith Standard & Poors and Ba3 with Moodys with both ratings on a negative outlook.
It is possible that these credit ratings could restrict the Groups access to future sources of debt.
In order to ensure the Group has access to sufficient funding to meet its obligations as they fall due the Group has refinanced its existing revolving credit facility in February 2013, increasing the facility to US$500 million and extending the maturity to 2015, please refer to note 40 for further details.
In addition to the new facilities, the Group can also issue notes under its US$3,000 million Euro Medium Term Notes EMTN programme.
Fair value of financial instruments In determining fair value of financial instruments the Group uses its judgment to select a variety of methods and to verify assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date, as well as obtaining fair value measurements from other parties.
For the financial instruments measured on the balance sheet at fair value, the Group has adopted the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Level 1: Quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in the active market is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
These instruments are included in level 1.
As at 31 December 2012 and 2011, the Groups available-for-sale financial assets refer to note 20 are included in level 1 of the hierarchy.
As at 31 December 2012 and 2011, the Group did not hold financial instruments that are included in level 2 or 3 of the hierarchy.
The fair value of financial instruments carried at amortised cost is based on expected cash flows discounted at prevailing interest rates for new instruments with similar credit risk and maturity.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 156 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35.
Auditors remuneration During the year, the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups external auditor as detailed below: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Parent Company and Consolidated financial statements 1.5 1.9 The auditing of accounts of any associate of the Company 2.8 3.9 Audit-related assurance services 1.6 0.7 Taxation advisory services 1.6 0.8 Other assurance services 0.9 0.4 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into, or proposed to be entered into, by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates 2.4 0.6 All other non-audit services 0.3 0.3 Total 11.1 8.6 36.
Commitments Capital expenditure commitments As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Property, plant and equipment 535 1,031 The reduction in capital commitments is predominantly due to lower capital commitments for the Aktobe ferroalloys plant as it approaches completion and the lower level of capital expenditure planned in 2013.
Operating leases The table below sets out minimum payments for aggregate future minimum lease payments: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Less than 1 year 12 11 Between 1 and 2 years 7 10 Between 2 and 3 years 4 7 Between 3 and 4 years 3 5 Between 4 and 5 years 3 3 After 5 years 28 30 Total 57 66 Rental expenses relating to the operating leases of mining facilities and administrative facilities are recognised in cost of sales and general and administrative expenses respectively within the income statement.
Assets pledged and restricted The Group has the following assets pledged as collateral: As at 31 December 2012 2011 Asset Related Asset Related In millions of US$ Note pledged liability pledged liability Property, plant and equipment 17 2 Long-term deposits and restricted cash 20 23 16 14 1 Restricted cash 24 53 125 160 } Trade receivable 28 51 167 35 Total assets pledged and restricted 127 167 178 174 1 Restricted cash in 2011 of US$125 million relates to the deposit paid in relation to the First Quantum Minerals transaction.
In addition, there is a pledge over the shares of Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter JSC as detailed in note 28 h. Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 157 37.
Contingencies Taxation At the end of 2009, the Kazakhstan tax authorities issued a transfer pricing assessment of US$126 million on SSGPO in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004.
The Groups management have appealed against the assessment, with no provision against additional tax considered to be necessary.
The Kazakhstan tax authorities are currently considering the Groups appeal against the assessment.
As at 31 December 2012, the position remained unchanged.
Regulatory matters As set out on pages 74 and 75, the Company has been contacted by Serious Fraud Office SFO regarding allegations around its operations and assets in, and transactions involving, Kazakhstan and Africa in particular, the DRC and also the Financial Services Authority which is now known as the Financial Conduct Authority FCA in its capacity as the UK Listing Authority UKLA regarding compliance with the Listing Rules 10 Significant Transactions and 11 Related party transactions.
Further details regarding the potential actions which might arise are set out on page 75.
Underlying EBIT, EBITDA and EBITDA margin Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ unless stated otherwise Note 2012 2011 Loss profit for the year 852 1,986 Adjustments for: Impairments 9 1,216 24 Finance cost 14 286 184 Income tax expense 15 302 769 Onerous contract provision 9 328 Transaction costs credit expensed under IFRS 3 revised 5 26 2 Share of loss profit of joint ventures and associates 19 39 2 Finance income 13 60 61 Net gain arising from business combinations 5 89 Underlying EBIT 1,196 2,898 Add back: Depreciation and amortisation 691 515 1 Underlying EBITDA 1,887 3,413 Divide by: Revenue 6,320 7,705 2 Underlying EBITDA Margin 29.9% 44.3% 1 Underlying EBITDA: Loss profit before finance income, finance cost, income tax expense, onerous contract provision, depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and other non-current assets, share of profit or loss of joint ventures and associates, net gain arising from business combinations and acquisition related credit costs now expensed under IFRS 3 revised.
2 Underlying EBITDA margin: Underlying EBITDA as a percentage of revenue.
Return on capital employed Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ unless stated otherwise 2012 2011 Underlying EBIT 1,196 2,898 Divide by: 1 Capital employed weighted average Borrowings 4,122 1,597 Equity including non-controlling interests 11,035 10,798 Total capital employed weighted average 15,157 12,395 Return on capital employed 7.9% 23.4% 1 The capital employed used in this calculation is a three-point average based on the opening and closing balance sheet for each year plus the half year interim balance sheet.
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 158 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 38.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP measures continued 3.
Gearing Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ unless stated otherwise 2012 2011 Net debt 5,135 972 Divide by: Net debt 5,135 972 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 9,746 10,900 14,881 11,872 Gearing 34.5% 8.2% 4.
Gross available funds and net debt Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Gross available funds Cash and cash equivalents 698 622 Term deposits included in trade and other receivables 27 25 Total other financial assets 323 218 Less: Investment in quoted equity shares non-current 232 191 Other financial assets current and non-current 73 16 Total gross available funds 743 658 Net debt Cash and cash equivalents 698 622 Borrowings current 279 360 Borrowings non-current 5,554 1,234 Total net debt 5,135 972 5.
Analysis of movements in net debt In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Opening net debt at 1 January 972 35 Increase decrease in cash during the year 80 961 Cash inflow from borrowing proceeds 4,090 154 Cash outflow from debt repayment 338 154 Promissory notes repaid for Camrose joint venture acquisition within investing activities 50 Promissory notes repaid for Camrose joint venture acquisition within financing activities 75 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 3,597 911 Foreign exchange loss gain on borrowings 6 3 Foreign exchange loss on cash and cash equivalents 4 12 Foreign exchange movements 10 9 Promissory notes issued as part of FQM transaction 441 Borrowings assumed on acquisition of subsidiaries 56 Net interest accrued 73 17 Other movements 14 Other non-cash movements 556 17 Net debt at 31 December 5,135 972 Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 159 6.
Reconciliation of adjusted profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2012 2011 Loss profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 804 1,974 Adjustments for: Impairments 1,216 24 Onerous contract provision 328 Net gain arising from business combinations 89 Tax impact of the above 99 Non-controlling interests share of impairments net of tax 19 Adjusted profit attributable to owners of the Company 533 1,998 7.
Reconciliation of adjusted effective tax rate Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ unless stated otherwise 2012 2011 Loss profit before income tax expense 550 2,755 Adjustments for: Impairments 1,216 24 Onerous contract provision 328 Net gain arising from business combinations 89 Adjusted profit before income tax expense 905 2,779 Income tax expense 302 769 Adjustments for: Tax on impairment 99 Adjusted income tax expense 401 769 Adjusted effective tax rate 44.3% 27.7% Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 160 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39.
Principal subsidiaries The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in a list in this report.
Therefore, the Group discloses only those companies that have a more significant impact on the profit or assets of the Group.
A full list of companies is filed along with the Annual Return to Companies House.
As at 31 December 2012 Proportion of ordinary Proportion Proportion of shares held of ordinary preference Country of bythe Parent shares held shares held Subsidiary Principal activity incorporation Company by the Group by the Group SSGPO JSC SSGPO Mining and processing Kazakhstan 100.00 81.47 Zhairemsky GOK JSC Mining and processing Kazakhstan 100.00 37.18 Shubarkol Komir JSC Shubarkol Mining and processing Kazakhstan 100.00 TNC Kazchrome JSC Kazchrome Mining and processing Kazakhstan 99.56 86.52 Aluminium of Kazakhstan JSC AoK Mining and processing Kazakhstan 98.12 82.81 Frontier SPRL Mining and processing DRC 95.00 Boss Mining Sprl Mining and processing DRC 70.00 La Congolaise fide Mines et fide Dveloppement Mining DRC 100.00 Comide Sprl Comide Socit Minire fide Kabolela et Kipese Sprl SMKK Mining DRC 100.00 Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter JSC KAS Metals Processing Kazakhstan 100.00 Rohan Prospecting and Mining SPRL RPM Metals Processing DRC 100.00 Sary-Arka Spetskoks LLP Metals Processing Kazakhstan 100.00 Serov Ferroalloy Plant JSC Metals Processing Russian Federation 99.62 Chambishi Metals PLC Metals Processing Zambia 90.00 Eurasian Energy Corporation JSC EEC Power Generation Kazakhstan 100.00 76.67 Bahia Minerao Ltda Mineral Exploration Brazil 100.00 Minerao Minas Bahia SA MIBA Mineral Exploration Brazil 100.00 Minerao Peixe Bravo SA MPB Mineral Exploration Brazil 100.00 Dezita Sprl Mineral Exploration DRC 100.00 ENRC Mozambique Limitada Mineral Exploration Mozambique 100.00 Amari Manganese SA Pty Limited Mineral Exploration South Africa 74.00 Treatment of Kingamyambo Tailings Company Mineral Exploration DRC 70.00 Metalkol Todal Mining Pvt Limited Mineral Exploration Zimbabwe 60.00 Swanmines Sprl Swanmines Mineral Exploration DRC 47.80 Congo Cobalt Corporation Sprl CCC Mining Contracting Services DRC 100.00 MEK Transsystema LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 TransCom LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 ENRC Logistics LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 Sabot Management Holdings Limited Transportation Seychelles 100.00 Sabot Holdings SA Pty Limited Transportation South Africa 100.00 ENRC Alumina AG & Branch Sales & Marketing Switzerland 100.00 ENRC Marketing Africa AG Sales & Marketing Switzerland 100.00 ENRC Marketing LLP Sales & Marketing Kazakhstan 100.00 ENRC Marketing LLC Sales & Marketing Russian Federation 100.00 Africo Resources Limited Africo Holding Company Canada 63.70 Bahia Minerals BV BMBV Holding Company Netherlands 100.00 Camrose Resources Limited Holding Company DRC 100.00 Enya Holding BV Holding Company Netherlands 100.00 ENRC NV Holding Company Netherlands 100.00 ENRC Africa BV Holding Company Kazakhstan 100.00 ENRC Africa Holdings Limited Holding Company United Kingdom 100.00 Rubio Holdings Limited Holding Company British Virgin Islands 100.00 Corporate Fund ENRC Komek Charitable Foundation Kazakhstan 100.00 ENRC Kazakhstan LLP Group Managing Company Kazakhstan 100.00 ENRC Management UK Limited Group Managing Company United Kingdom 100.00 ENRC Finance Limited Treasury & Holding Company United Kingdom 100.00 Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 161 40.
Events after balance sheet date 2012 Final Dividend The Board of Directors does not recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Funding arrangements On 12 February 2013, the Group refinanced its existing revolving credit facility, increasing the facility from US$467 million to US$500 million and extending the maturity to 2015.
The facility has been arranged on a club deal basis with Bank of Tokyo acting as the coordinating bank and bears an interest rate of LIBOR plus 2.25%.
Brazil deferred consideration On 8 March 2013, the Group entered into an agreement to reschedule the payment terms of the US$285 million deferred consideration outstanding in relation to the Bahia Minerals BV acquisition.
Under the rescheduled payment terms: The Group has loaned US$65 million to the vendor which is repayable on the earlier of the issuance of the port installation licence or 1June 2014: and The deferred consideration of US$285 million is now due on the later of the issuance of the port installation licence or 31 May 2014.
DRC Copper concentrate export governmental decree On 5 April 2013 an Inter-ministerial Decree was adopted by the Minister of Mines and the Minister of Finance of the Democratic Republic of the Congo the DRC relating to the exportations of minerals the Decree.
The Decree provides, amongst others, that the exportation of copper and cobalt concentrates is prohibited.
However, a 90 day grace period is provided to mining companies that hold stocks of copper and cobalt concentrates.
Such mining companies are entitled, during the 90 day grace period, to export such stocks, subject to the requirement to declare them.
The Minister of Mines of the DRC has since advised that mining companies will be able to apply for an exemption from the ban on exportation of cobalt and copper concentrates under certain circumstances and subject to certain conditions.
We understand that this decree is subject to further review following representations made by several stakeholders in the DRC.
The Group is currently unable to make an assessment of any financial impact as it considers that the way in which this decree will be implemented to be uncertain.
Taxation In January 2013 SSGPO received a notification from the Kazakhstan tax authorities requesting a change in the tax treatment of iron ore pellets for Excess Profits Tax and Mineral Extraction Tax purposes with effect from October 2010.
The Groups management are of the opinion that the treatment applied by SSGPO is fully compliant with the applicable tax and sub-surface use legislation and consider a successful challenge by the tax authorities as being less than probable: consequently, no provision has been made in the 2012 financial statements as a result of this post balance sheet event.
SSGPO and the Groups management are currently engaged in a dialogue with the relevant Ministries of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan with a view to ascertaining the Governments position, prior to which it is not practicable to quantify the potential impact.
