Glossary 186 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 EMTN GHG LSE SD Acronyms Euro Medium Term Note Greenhouse London Stock Exchange Sustainable and symbols gas emissions Development ENRC LTIFR AI O 2 3 Eurasian Natural GKZ Lost Time Injury SME Aluminium oxide Resources State Reserves Frequency Rate: number Small and AoK Corporation PLC Commissions of lost time injuries per Medium Enterprise Aluminium of countries of the former million hours worked.
EPS SMKK of Kazakhstan Soviet Union Earnings Per Share LTIP Socit Minire BAMIN HBI Long Term fide Kabolela EPT Bahia Minerao, Hot Briquetted Iron: Incentive Plan et Kipese Sprl Excess Profits Tax the Groups Brazilian a compacted form Kazakhstan MET SRK ironore operation of direct reduced iron Mineral Extraction Tax SRK Consulting UK EU which is a premium BFS Limited European Union steelmaking raw material.
MIBA Bankable Minerao Minas SSGPO Feasibility Study EUR HSEC Bahia SA Sokolovsko Sarbaiskoye Euro Health, Safety, BMBV Ore Mining and Environment & MMK Bahia Minerals BV EURIBOR Processing Association Community Magnitogorsk Iron and Euro Interbank BMSA Steel Works OJSC SX EW Offered Rate IAS Bahia Minerao SA Solvent extraction International Mn Fe O electro-winning: after ore 2 3 BRL Accounting Standards Manganese Iron oxide is leached with acid the Brazilian real IFRIC MPB liquid product is further FQM CAMEC International Minerao Peixe purified in a chemical First Quantum Central African Financial Reporting Bravo SA process known Minerals Ltd Mining & Exploration Interpretation Committee as solvent extraction n a Company PLC FTSE 100 SX.
The resultant IFRS Not applicable Index that measures liquid product from this CCC International Financial the performance OJSC is known as a pregnant Congo Cobalt Reporting Standards of the shares of the Open Joint solution acidic metalCorporation Sprl 100 largest companies JSC Stock Company laden water and is sent CDP listed on the London Joint Stock Company to an electro-winning O P Carbon Stock Exchange.
EW plant where the KAS Open pit Disclosure Project cobalt is deposited FTSE 350 Kazakhstan Aluminium PSM in metal form CIS Market capitalisation Smelter JSC Process through electrolysis.
Commonwealth weighted stock market KASE Safety Management of Independent States index incorporating the TBRU Kazakhstan largest 350 companies RoM Torgayskoye CNY Stock Exchange by capitalisation which Run of Mine extraction: bauxite mine Chinese yuan have their primary KBRU uncrushed ore in its U G Cr O 2 3 listing on the London Krasno-Oktyabrskoye natural state, as when Underground mine Chromium oxide Stock Exchange.
bauxite mine it is blasted UK DRC GAAP KZT RTR United Kingdom Democratic Republic Generally Accepted Kazakhstani tenge Roan Tailings of the Congo Accounting Practices Reclamation Project USA LIBOR United States of America DSP GBP London Interbank RUB Deferred Share Plan British pound Offered Rate Russian rouble US$ US dollar EEC LME RUSAL Eurasian Energy London Metal Exchange United Company RUSAL ZAR Corporation JSC South African rand ETR Effective Tax Rate Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 187 Capacity Community Social Copper cathode Feasibility study Terms and The determined Investment CSI Cathodes are typically The evaluation definitions number of units that Costs of different large plates of pure of a proposed Alumina can be produced types of activities copper 99.9% copper mining project Any of several forms in a given time period designed to benefit produced as the final to determine whether of aluminium oxide based on operations external stakeholders product in the smelting the mineral resource can AI O occurring 2 3 with a normal and, in turn, support and refining process.
naturally as corundum number of shifts the Groups business Copper cathodes are Ferroalloys or obtained by the and maintenance objectives.
Community re-melted to produce Group of alloys having refining of bauxite ore. interruptions.
Investment is wire rod, billets, cakes iron Fe as one of the distinguished from or ingots.
Aluminium smelter Capital Expenditure defining elements.
These marketing, sponsorship An electrolysis or CAPEX Crushing alloys form the feed or public relations, which process plant used Expenditures incurred Process of size reduction material for various primarily benefit the to convert alumina during the process into relatively coarse finishing processes Group.
CSI does not to aluminium metal.
of commencing, particles by stamps, e. g. steel making.
include management expanding crushers, or rolls.
The Group, in particular, Anode costs, employee time or sustaining production.
produces high-carbon, An electrode through spent volunteering, Demonstrated medium-carbon and which an electric Charge chrome employee donations, reserve low-carbon ferrochrome, current flows.
A ferrochrome alloy investments made A collective term for ferrosilicochrome and containing ore with primarily for public the sum of ore in both Barite ferrosilicomanganese.
a low chrome content, relations, brand measured and indicated A mineral consisting most commonly promotion or causeresources and reserves.
Ferrochrome of barium sulphate, used in stainless related marketing.
An alloy of iron and predominantly used Dilution steel production.
chromium primarily as a weighting agent for Concentrate To lower the used as an input drilling fluids in oil and Chromite A material that has concentration to stainless steel making.
Comprising charge to increase the content Bauxite Chromium or Electrowinning chrome, high-carbon, of the contained An earthy rock ChromeOre An electroplating medium-carbon and valuable component composed almost Chemical element with process used to remove low-carbon ferrochrome.
or mineral relative to the wholly of aluminium symbol Cr, commonly metal ions from Ferrosilicochrome contained waste.
hydroxide, often used in the steel concentrated solutions.
An alloy with iron, formed by the intense industry to produce Contained metal chrome and silicon Exceptional items weathering of existing stainless steel.
Total units, whether as the main elements.
It is the principal in metal form Cobalt are non-recurring ore of aluminium.
or metal units contained Ferrosilicomanganese Chemical element with or variable in nature in concentrate and An alloy with iron, Beneficiation the symbol Co. A hard, and which do not sludge, net of internal manganese and silicon The treatment of mined lustrous grey metal.
impact the underlying consumption, but as the main elements.
ore, making it more trading performance Cobalt concentrate excludes copper concentrated or richer.
A washed and or floated contained in An alloy with iron Brownfield ore that contains cobalt concentrate.
Execution and silicon as the A development elevated levels of cobalt.
Those projects which main elements.
Contango project that is close have full Board approval Coke A market condition to existing industrial with equipment ordered Fines Bituminous coal from where a forward operations with proximity and construction In ore processing, which the volatile or futures contract to existing infrastructure, in progress.
material crushed components have is trading above the often an extension or ground too finely, been removed.
expected spot price Exploration and with known or ores too powdery, It is used as a fuel and at contract maturity.
The search for mineral geological conditions.
as a reducing agent deposits and the Copper in smelting.
work done to prove A chemical element or establish the extent with the symbol Cu.
It is a ductile metal with very high thermal and electrical conductivity.
Glossary continued 188 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Fluorite Heap leach Limestone Ore Overburden Also known as fluorspar, An industrial mining Sedimentary rock The naturally occurring Those layers a halide mineral process in which comprised mostly material from which of unwanted soil composed of calcium metals are leached from of calcium carbonate a mineral or minerals and rock that must fluoride, CaF.
Used a pile of crushed ore calcite.
of economic value can be removed to reveal the 2 for making steel and by a percolating solution.
be extracted profitably ore beneath.
Magnetite aluminium amongst or to satisfy social Indicated resource A mineral of iron Pelletising other purposes.
That part of a mineral Fe O, a common The process 3 4 The term is generally but Founder resource for which rank, ore forming mineral of agglomerating fine not always used to refer Shareholders quality, and quantity with characteristic product and moulding to metalliferous material, The Group was formed have been computed magnetic properties.
it into the shape and is often modified from a collection partly from sample of a pellet a ball of 8 Manganese by the names of the of entities jointly analyses and to 16 mm in diameter, A chemical element valuable constituent, e. g. controlled by the three measurements which is more favourable designated by the iron ore. founder shareholders and partly from in size and strength symbol Mn.
who are Mr Patokh reasonable geologic Ore reserves for more efficient Chodiev, Mr Alijan projections therefore Measured resource That portion of the downstream processing Ibragimov and giving a reasonable That part of a mineral identified ore or mineral than the original fines.
Mr Alexander level of confidence resource for which rank, deposit resource that Plant Machkevitch and to the estimates.
quality, and quantity can be economically Commonly used who continue have been computed mined at the time Inferred resource as general term for to be major shareholders from sample analyses of determination.
That part of a mineral fixed or moveable of the Company.
and measurements It includes diluting resource for which rank, equipment required from closely spaced materials and allowances Furnace quality, and quantity in the process of winning and geologically for losses, which may A vessel in which ore can be estimated with of raw material and well-known sample occur when the material is reduced to molten a low level of confidence downstream processing, sites, giving a high is mined.
Appropriate metal under the action as they are based including crushers, mills, level of confidence assessments and of applied heat.
Similarly, on geologic evidence smelters.
studies have been crude metal is treated only, projections carried out, and include Platinum in a furnace by adding and few samples Mineral resources consideration A chemical element with alloys to produce and measurements.
A concentration of and modification the chemical symbol Pt.
or occurrence JORC Code by realistically assumed of material of intrinsic Polymetallic Grade The 2004 Australasian mining metallurgical, economic interest Composed The quantity of metal Code for Reporting economic, marketing, in or on the Earths crust of a combination in a specified quantity of Exploration Results, legal, environmental, in such form, quality of different metals.
of rock, concentrate, Mineral Resources social and governmental and quantity that alloy or other material, and Ore Reserves factors.
These Probable ore reserves there are reasonable usually expressed as published by the assessments The lowest confidence prospects for eventual as a percentage of the Joint Ore Reserves demonstrate at the category of an ore economic extraction.
Committee of the time of reporting that reserve estimate but The location, quantity, Australasian Institute extraction could still of sufficient Greenfield grade, geological of Mining and Metallurgy, reasonably be justified.
quality to serve as the A term used to describe characteristics and Australian Institute Ore reserves are basis for a decision an area of undeveloped continuity of a mineral of Geoscientists and sub-divided in order on the development land, either currently resource are known, Minerals Council of increasing confidence of the deposit.
used for agriculture estimated or interpreted of Australia.
into probable or just left to nature.
from specific Product cost per ore reserves and Komek Foundation geological evidence tonne Group proved ore reserves ENRCs corporate and knowledge.
The total operating costs ENRC and each as defined elsewhere foundation.
Mineral resources are as per the Consolidated of its subsidiaries.
sub-divided, in order income statement Haematite of increasing geological over the volume Common iron oxide confidence, into of product sold.
mineral Fe O. inferred, indicated and 2 3 measured categories as defined elsewhere in the Glossary.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 189 Proved ore reserves Samruk Kazyna Total Shareholder Underlying EBITDA Units The highest The sovereign wealth Return or TSR Loss profit before % confidence category fund of the Republic Overall return finance income, per cent of an ore reserve of Kazakhstan.
on an ordinary share, finance cost, income estimate.
The style after all adjustments tax expense, onerous Scrap of mineralisation or other for capital actions contract provision, degree Discarded waste factors could mean that and reinvestments depreciation, material, especially metal GWh proved ore reserves of dividends or other amortisation and suitable for reprocessing.
gigawatt hour are not achievable income over the relevant impairment of property, in some deposits.
Semi-coke period, expressed plant and equipment, kcal kg Any of a range as a percentage intangible assets and thousand calories per Reclamation of products intermediate of the average price other non-current thousand grammes The restoration in composition and of an ordinary share assets, share of profit of land and kg consistency between at the beginning or loss of joint venture environmental values kilogramme coke and pitch formed of the relevant period.
and associates, net gain to a surface mine site or thousand grammes by the incomplete Dividends include arising from business after the ore is extracted.
regular dividend combinations and kt The process includes payments, and also may acquisition related credit thousand metric tonnes restoring the land to its Smelting include cash payments costs now expensed approximate original A thermal process kWh to shareholders under IFRS 3 revised.
appearance by restoring whereby molten metals kilowatt hour or special onetopsoil and planting or amalgamated Waste time dividends Mt native grasses and metals are liberated Rock or mineral which or share buybacks.
million metric tonnes ground covers.
from beneficiated ore must be removed from or concentrate with Tailings a mine to keep the MW Reductant impurities speared Materials left over mining scheme practical, megawatt A reducing agent: as lighter slag.
after the process but which has no value.
a reactant that MWh of separating the donates electrons Stockpile Winning megawatt hour valuable fraction from to other reactants during A generally intermediate The excavation, loading, 3 the uneconomic fraction m a redox reaction.
accumulation of ore, and removal of ore from of an ore. cubic metres other mineral product the ground.
Refinery or coal, prior to individual Tuoli pa An electrolytic processing steps.
Xinjiang Tuoli ENRC per annum or chemical facility Any heap of material Taihang Chrome Co. producing pure metals TJ formed for loading Ltd. or metal compounds.
Turbine Resource delineation Stripping ratio A rotating machine for The analysis The unit amount producing electricity by a qualified of overburden that must driven by steam or gas.
professional that be removed to gain determines the Upper Group 2 UG2 access to a similar unit resource boundary.
The UG2 Reef is one amount of ore. of the principal platinum Return On Capital Sulphide ore group metal bearing Employed or ROCE A sulphur bearing ore reefs on the eastern Profit before interest and containing appreciable and western limbs taxation and exceptional levels of metals that of the Bushveld Igneous items over average ideally can be extracted Complex in South Africa.
capital employed and recovered profitably borrowings and through various total equity, including process techniques.
Toll gating Saleable product A formal project Products that have phase review and been upgraded into control process.
a form that may be sold to customers.
