Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and is 1 Accounting policies likely to affect the groups accounting for its financial assets.
This General information standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The group is yet to Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC the company is a company assess IFRS 9s full impact.
incorporated in the United Kingdom UK.
IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements effective for accounting periods beginning on or after January 1 2013.
This standard builds The group financial statements consolidate those of the company and its on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the subsidiaries together referred to as the group and equity-account the determining factor in whether an entity should be included within groups interest in associates.
The parent company financial statements the consolidated financial statements of the parent company and present information about the entity and not about its group.
provides additional guidance to assist in the determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
This standard has not yet been The group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the endorsed by the EU.
The group is yet to assess IFRS 10s full impact.
directors in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements effective for accounting periods IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and, therefore, comply with beginning on or after January 1 2013.
This standard replaces Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The company has elected to prepare its IAS 31, Interests in Joint Ventures and requires a party to a joint parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
arrangement to determine the type of joint arrangement in which it is involved by assessing its rights and obligations and then account Judgements made by the directors in the application of those accounting for those rights and obligations in accordance with that type of policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements, and joint arrangement.
A joint venturer applies the equity method of estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year, accounting for its investment in a joint venture in accordance with are discussed in note 2.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011.
Unlike IAS 31, the use of proportionate consolidation to account for joint a Relevant new standards, amendments and interpretations issued and applied in the 2012 financial year: ventures is not permitted.
IAS 24 revised, Related party disclosures, effective for accounting IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities effective for periods beginning on or after January 1 2011. accounting periods beginning on or after January 1 2013.
This IFRIC 14, Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement standard includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of Improvements to IFRSs 2010, effective for accounting periods interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, beginning on or after January 1 2011. special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
This Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, effective standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The group is yet to for accounting periods beginning on or after July 1 2011. assess IFRS 12s full impact.
Improvements to IFRSs 2010, effective for accounting periods IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement effective for accounting periods beginning on or after January 1 2011.
Key amendments include: beginning on or after January 1 2013.
This standard aims to improve IFRS 1 accounting policy changes in year of adoption and consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise denition amendments to deemed cost revaluation basis, regulatory assets : of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and IFRS 3 IAS 27 clarification of transition requirements, measurement disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
The requirements, which of non-controlling interests, unreplaced and voluntarily replaced are largely aligned between IFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend to the share-based payment awards: financial statement disclosures use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should clarification of content of statement of changes in equity IAS 1, be applied where its use is already required or permitted by other financial instrument disclosures IFRS 7 and significant events and standards within IFRSs or US GAAP.
This standard has not yet been transactions in interim reports IAS 34. endorsed by the EU.
The group is yet to assess IFRS 13s full impact.
IAS 19 revised, Employee Benets, issued in June 2011 effective None of these newly adopted standards have had a material impact on for accounting periods beginning on or after January 1 2013.
The the groups results in this financial year.
impact on the group will be as follows: to eliminate the corridor approach and recognise all actuarial gains and losses in Other b Relevant new standards, amendments and interpretations issued Comprehensive Income as they occur: to immediately recognise all but effective in future accounting periods: past service costs: and to replace interest cost and expected return on IFRS 9 Financial Instruments issued in October 2010 effective for plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying accounting periods beginning on or after January 1 2015.
This the discount rate to the net dened liability asset.
The group is yet standard is the first step in the process to replace IAS 39 Financial to assess the full impact of the amendments.
IFRS 9 introduces new 61 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27, 1 Accounting policies continued effective for accounting periods beginning on or after January 1 IAS 27, Separate Financial Statements 2011 effective for 2014.
This amends IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS accounting periods beginning on or after January 1 2013.
The 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IAS27, Separate standard requires that when an entity prepares separate financial Financial Statements to: provide investment entities an exemption statements, investments in subsidiaries, associates, and jointly from the consolidation of particular subsidiaries and instead require controlled entities are accounted for either at cost, or in accordance that an investment entity measure the investment in each eligible with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
It also deals with the recognition subsidiary at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with of dividends, certain group reorganisations and includes a number of IFRS9, Financial Instruments or IAS39, Financial Instruments: disclosure requirements.
Recognition and Measurement: require additional disclosure about IAS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 why the entity is considered an investment entity, details of the effective for accounting periods beginning on or after January 1 entitys unconsolidated subsidiaries, and the nature of relationship 2013.
This standard supersedes IAS 28, Investments in Associates, and certain transactions between the investment entity and its and prescribes the accounting for investments in associates and subsidiaries: require an investment entity to account for its investment sets out the requirements for the application of the equity method in a relevant subsidiary in the same way in its consolidated and when accounting for investments in associates and joint ventures.
separate financial statements or to only provide separate financial The standard defines significant inuence and provides guidance statements if all subsidiaries are unconsolidated.
on how the equity method of accounting is to be applied including exemptions from applying the equity method in some cases.
It also The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards in future prescribes how investments in associates and joint ventures should periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the be tested for impairment.
group except for additional disclosures.
Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after January Basis of preparation 1 2014.
This amends IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, to clarify certain aspects because of diversity in application of the except for certain financial instruments which have been measured requirements on offsetting, focused on four main areas: at fair value.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied the meaning of currently has a legally enforceable right of set-off consistently to all periods presented in these group financial statements.
the application of simultaneous realisation and settlement The directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing this the offsetting of collateral amounts report as explained in detail on page 25. the unit of account for applying the offsetting requirements.
Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income Amendments to IAS 1, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after July 31 2012.
This amends IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements to revise the way other comprehensive income is presented.
Consolidated Financial Statements, Joint Arrangements and Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: Transition Guidance Amends IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities to provide additional transition relief in by limiting the requirement to provide adjusted comparative information to only the preceding comparative period.
Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IFRS 7, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after January 1 2013.
This amends the disclosure requirements in IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures to require information about all recognised financial instruments that are set off in accordance with paragraph 42 of IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation.
62 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com The consideration paid for the earlier stages of a step acquisition, before 1 Accounting policies continued control passes to the group, is treated as an investment in an associate.
Basis of consolidation a Subsidiaries b Transactions and non-controlling interests The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of the company and Transactions with non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved subsidiaries are identified separately and included in the groups equity.
where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
date of the original business combination and its share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Total comprehensive income Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the nontransactions between group companies are eliminated.
controlling interests having a deficit balance.
The group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for Where the group owns a non-controlling interest in the equity share capital business combinations.
The amount recognised as consideration by of a non-quoted company and does not exercise significant influence, it is the group equates to the fair value of the assets, liabilities and equity held as an investment and stated in the balance sheet at the lower of cost acquired by the group plus contingent consideration should there be any and net realisable value.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities c Associates assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise values at acquisition.
On an  basis, the group significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
The results or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial net assets.
statements using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The groups investment in associates includes goodwill To the extent the consideration including the assumed contingent identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment loss.
consideration provided by the acquirer is greater than the fair value of the assets and liabilities, this amount is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill also The groups share of associate post-acquisition profit or losses is recognised incorporates the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree in the Income Statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive acquiree over the fair value of the groups share of the identifiable net income.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against assets acquired.
the carrying amount of the investment.
When the groups share of losses in an associate equals its interest in the associate, including any other If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, unsecured receivables, the group does not recognise further losses, unless the difference is recognised directly in the Statement of Comprehensive it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and its associates Partial acquisitions control unaffected are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the associates.
Where the group acquires an additional interest in an entity in which Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides a controlling interest is already held, the consideration paid for the evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of additional interest is reflected within movements in equity as a reduction associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with in non-controlling interests.
the policies adopted by the group.
Step acquisitions control passes to the group Dilution gains and losses arising in investments in associates are recognised Where a business combination is achieved in stages, at the stage at which in the Income Statement.
control passes to the group, the previously held interest is treated as if it had been disposed of, along with the consideration paid for the controlling interest in the subsidiary.
The fair value of the previously held interest then forms one of the components that is used to calculate goodwill, along with the consideration and the non-controlling interest less the fair value of identifiable net assets.
63 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Intangible assets 1 Accounting policies continued Goodwill Foreign currencies Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration Functional and presentation currency over the net fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
The functional and presentation currency of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC and its UK subsidiaries other than Fantfoot Limited is sterling.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and subsequently measured at The functional currency of subsidiaries and associates is the currency of cost less accumulated impairment.
For the purposes of impairment testing, the primary economic environment in which they operate.
goodwill is allocated to those cash generating units that have benefited from the acquisition.
Assets are grouped at the lowest level for which Transactions and balances there are separately identifiable cash flows.
The carrying value of goodwill Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange is reviewed for impairment at least annually or where there is an indication ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities that goodwill may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates generating unit is less than its carrying amount, then the impairment loss ruling at the balance sheet date.
is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis.
Any Gains and losses arising on foreign currency borrowings and derivative impairment is recognised immediately in the Income Statement and may instruments, to the extent that they are used to provide a hedge against not subsequently be reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary undertaking, the the groups equity investments in overseas undertakings, are taken to attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the equity together with the exchange difference arising on the net investment profit and loss on disposal.
All other exchange differences are taken to the Income Statement.
Goodwill arising on foreign subsidiary investments held in the consolidated Group companies balance sheet are retranslated into sterling at the applicable period end The Income Statements of overseas operations are translated into sterling exchange rates.
Any exchange differences arising are taken directly to at the weighted average exchange rates for the year and their balance equity as part of the retranslation of the net assets of the subsidiary.
sheets are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences arising on consolidation are Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has taken to equity.
In the event of the disposal of an operation, the related been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts having been tested for cumulative translation differences are recognised in the Income Statement impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP in the period of disposal.
before October 1 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Internally-generated intangible assets depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the groups software and systems development is recognised only if all of the following Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is provided on a straightconditions are met: line basis over their expected useful lives at the following rates per year: An asset is created that can be identied such as software or a Freehold land do not depreciate website : Freehold buildings 2% It is probable that the asset created will generate future economic Long-term leasehold premises over term of lease benets: and Short-term leasehold premises over term of lease The development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Office equipment 11% 33% Motor vehicles 20% Internally-generated intangible assets are stated at cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over the useful lives.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
64 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Cash and cash equivalents 1 Accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents includes cash, short-term deposits and other Other intangible assets short-term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three For all other intangible assets, the group initially makes an assessment months or less.
of their fair value at acquisition.
An intangible asset will be recognised as long as the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal For the purpose of the group cash flow statement, cash and cash rights, and its fair value can be measured reliably.
equivalents are as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Subsequent to acquisition, amortisation is charged so as to write off the Financial assets costs of other intangible assets over their estimated useful lives, using The group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: a straight-line or reducing balance method.
These intangible assets are financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, reviewed for impairment as described below.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets were acquired.
Management determines These intangibles are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and the classification of its assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this impairment losses.
designation at every reporting date.
Amortisation Classification Amortisation of intangible assets is provided on a reducing balance basis Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss or straight-line basis as appropriate over their expected useful lives at the Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets following rates per year: held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated Trademarks and brands 5 30 years by management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading Customer relationships 3 16 years unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified Databases 1 22 years Licences and software 3 5 years as current assets if expected to be settled within 12 months: otherwise, they are classified as non-current.
Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life for example, goodwill or Loans and receivables intangible assets not ready to use are not subject to amortisation and are Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment 12 months after the end of the reporting period which are classified as loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount non-current assets.
The groups loans and receivables comprise trade and exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
of an assets fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for Available-for-sale financial assets which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either Non-financial assets, other than goodwill, that suffered impairment are designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures or management intends to dispose of it within 12 months of the end of the Trade and other receivables reporting period.
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount, less provision for impairment.
A provision is made and charged to the Income Statement when there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms.
More information on impairment is included in the impairment of financial assets section below.
65 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor: 1 Accounting policies continued A breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or Recognition and measurement principal payments: Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the date The group, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers on which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
All financial financial difficulty, granting to the borrower a concession that the assets, other than those carried at fair value through profit or loss, are lender would not otherwise consider: initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
It becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation: Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss The disappearance of an active market for that financial asset Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially because of financial difficulties: or recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the profit Observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Gains estimate of future cash ows from a portfolio of financial assets since and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot fair value through profit or loss category are included in the profit and yet be identied with the individual financial assets in the portfolio, loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period including: in which they arise.
Dividend income from assets, categorised as financial i Adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the assets at fair value through profit or loss, is recognised in the profit and portfolio: and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income as part of ii National or local economic conditions that correlate with other income when the groups right to receive payments is established.
defaults on the assets in the portfolio.
Loans and receivables The group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows Available-for-sale financial assets excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value.
at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The assets carrying amount is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the profit Offsetting financial instruments and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
If Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in a loan has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined under the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or contract.
As a practical expedient, the group may measure impairment on realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
the basis of an instruments fair value using an observable market price.
Impairment of financial assets The group assesses at each reporting period whether there is objective If the assets carrying amount is reduced, the amount of the loss is evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
A recognised in the profit and loss component of the Statement of financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment Comprehensive Income.
losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of If in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases the asset a loss event and that loss event or events has an impact on and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial the impairment was recognised such as an improvement in the debtors assets that can be reliably estimated.
credit rating, the reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss is recognised in the profit and loss component of the Statement of The criteria that the group uses to determine that there is objective Comprehensive Income.
evidence of an impairment loss include: 66 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the Income Statement in 1 Accounting policies continued the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Income Statement Financial liabilities for example, when the forecast transaction that is hedged takes place.
Committed borrowings and bank overdrafts Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the amounts The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps received, net of direct issue costs.
Direct issue costs are amortised over the hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in the Income Statement period of the loans and overdrafts to which they relate.
Finance charges, accordingly, the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised including premiums payable on settlement or redemption are charged to in the Income Statement immediately.
However, whenever the forecast the Income Statement as incurred using the effective interest rate method transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial and are added to the carrying value of the borrowings or overdraft to the asset for example fixed assets, the gains and losses previously deferred in extent they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement Trade payables of the cost of the asset.
The deferred amounts are ultimately recognised Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their fair value.
in depreciation in the case of fixed assets.
Derivative financial instruments When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer The group uses various derivative financial instruments to manage its meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks, including forward existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps.
the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income Statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative All derivative instruments are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value.
gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the The recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments depends on Income Statement.
whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and the type of exposure it is designed to hedge.
The group designates certain derivatives as either: The premium or discount on interest rate instruments is recognised as part of net interest payable over the period of the contract.
Interest rate swaps a hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or are accounted for on an accruals basis.
liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or Net investment hedge b hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in the hedge.
same way as cash flow hedges.
The group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship Gains or losses on the qualifying part of net investment hedges are between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk recognised in other comprehensive income together with the gains and management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging losses on the underlying net investment.
The ineffective portion of such transactions.
The group also documents its assessment, both at hedge gains and losses is recognised in the Income Statement immediately.
inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that do fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Income Statement as they arise.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the derivative matures in more than 12 months, Gains and losses accumulated in equity are transferred to the Income and as a current asset or liability when the derivative matures in less than Statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability.
Liabilities in respect of put option agreements Cash flow hedge Liabilities for put options over the remaining minority interests in The effective portion of gains or losses on derivatives that are designated subsidiaries are recorded in the Statement of Financial Position at their and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive estimated discounted present value.
These discounts are unwound and income within the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The ineffective charged to the Income Statement as notional interest over the period up portion of such gains and losses is recognised in the Income Statement to the date of the potential future payment.
67 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Pensions Taxation Contributions to pension schemes in respect of current and past service, The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is ex-gratia pensions, and cost of living adjustments to existing pensions are recognised in the Income Statement, except to the extent that it relates based on the advice of independent actuaries.
to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Defined contribution plans Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws fixed contributions into a separate non-group related entity.
Payments that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet to the Euromoney Pension Plan and the Metal Bulletin Group Personal date.
Pension Plan, both defined contribution pension schemes, are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Deferred taxation is calculated under the provisions of IAS 12 Income tax and is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of The group also participates in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme, a defined assets and liabilities in the accounts and the corresponding tax bases benefit pension scheme which is operated by Daily Mail and General Trust used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using plc.
As there is no contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally net defined benefit cost for the plan as a whole to the individual entities, recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets the group recognises an expense equal to its contributions payable in are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be the period and does not recognise any unfunded liability of this pension available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
scheme on its balance sheet.
In other words, this scheme is treated as a No provision is made for temporary differences on unremitted earnings defined contribution plan.
of foreign subsidiaries or associates where the group has control and the reversal of the temporary difference is not foreseeable.
Defined benefit plans Defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
The group operates the Metal Bulletin Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme.
The present value of providing benefits is determined by triennial Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the valuations using the attained age method, with actuarial valuations period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax rates being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance are recognised in full in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, period in which they occur.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in in the Statement of Financial Position represents the present value of the which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities Share-based payments and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation The group makes share-based payments to certain employees which are authority and the group intends to settle its current assets and liabilities equity and cash-settled.
These payments are measured at their estimated on a net basis.
fair value at the date of grant, calculated using an appropriate option pricing model.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on Provisions a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the estimate of the A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the group has a number of shares that will eventually vest.
At the period end the vesting present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is assumptions are revisited and the charge associated with the fair value of probable that economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
For cash-settled share-based payments a liability If material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future equal to the portion of the services received is recognised at the current cash flows at a pre tax rate that reflects current market assessments of fair value as determined at each balance sheet date.
the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
68 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 1 Accounting policies continued 2 Key judgemental areas adopted in preparing these financial statements Revenue Revenue represents income from advertising, subscriptions, sponsorship The group prepares its group financial statements in accordance with and delegate fees, net of value added tax.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the application of which often requires judgements to be made by management when formulating Advertising revenues are recognised in the Income Statement on the the groups financial position and results.
Under IFRS, the directors are date of publication.
required to adopt those accounting policies most appropriate to the Subscription revenues are recognised in the Income Statement on a groups circumstances for the purpose of presenting fairly the groups straight-line basis over the period of the subscription.
financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
Sponsorship and delegate revenues are recognised in the Income Statement over the period the event is run.
In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often required in respect of items where the choice of specific policy, accounting Revenues invoiced but relating to future periods are deferred and treated estimate or assumption to be followed could materially affect the reported as deferred income in the Statement of Financial Position.
results or net asset position of the group should it later be determined that a different choice would have been more appropriate.
Leased assets Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership Management considers the accounting estimates and assumptions discussed are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Operating below to be its key judgemental areas and, accordingly, provides an lease rentals are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis explanation of each below.
Management has discussed its critical accounting as allowed by IAS 17 Leases.
estimates and associated disclosures with the groups audit committee.
Dividends The discussion below should also be read in conjunction with the groups Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are disclosure of IFRS accounting policies, which is provided in note 1. approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are paid.
Acquisitions The purchase consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary or business Own shares held by Employees Share Ownership Trust is allocated over the net fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and Transactions of the group-sponsored trust are included in the group contingent liabilities acquired.
In particular, the trusts holdings of shares in the company are debited direct to equity.
Fair value Determining the fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities Earnings per share acquired requires managements judgement and often involves the use of The earnings per share and diluted earnings per share calculations follow significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect the provisions of IAS 33 Earnings per share.
The diluted earnings per to future cash flows, recoverability of assets, and unprovided liabilities and share figure is calculated by adjusting for the dilution effect of the exercise commitments particularly in relation to tax and VAT.
of all ordinary share options, SAYE options and the Capital Appreciation Plan options granted by the company, but excluding the ordinary shares Intangible assets held by the Euromoney Employees Share Ownership Trust.
The group makes an assessment of the fair value of intangible assets arising on acquisitions.
An intangible asset will be recognised as long as Exceptional items the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights, and Exceptional items are items of income or expense considered by the directors, its fair value can be measured reliably.
either individually or if of a similar type in aggregate, as being either material or significant and which require additional disclosure in order to provide an The measurement of the fair value of intangible assets acquired requires indication of the underlying trading performance of the group.
significant management judgement particularly in relation to the expected future cash flows from the acquired marketing databases which are Segment reporting generally based on managements estimate of marketing response Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal rates, customer relationships, trademarks, brands, and repeat and reporting provided to the board and executive committee members who well established events.
At September 30 2012 the net book value of are responsible for strategic decisions, allocating resources and assessing intangible assets was 135.2 million 2012: 152.8 million.
performance of the operating segments.
69 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued These assumptions are set out in note 24.
Management regularly perform 2 Key judgemental areas adopted in preparing these a true-up of the estimate of the number of shares that are expected to financial statements continued vest, which is dependent on the anticipated number of leavers.
Goodwill Goodwill is impaired where the carrying value of goodwill is higher than The directors regularly reassess the expected vesting period.
A plan that the net present value of future cash flows of those cash generating units to vests earlier than originally estimated results in an acceleration of the fair which it relates.
Key areas of judgement in calculating the net present value value expense of the plan recognised in the Income Statement at the time are the forecast cash flows, the long-term growth rate of the applicable the reassessment occurs.
Equally, a plan that vests later than previously businesses and the discount rate applied to those cash flows.
Goodwill estimated results in a credit to the Income Statement at the date of held on the Statement of Financial Position at September302012 was reassessment.
The charge for long-term incentive payments for the year ended Deferred consideration September 30 2012 is 6.3 million 2011: 16.1 million.
The group often pays for a portion of the equity acquired at a future date.
This deferred consideration is contingent on the future results of the entity Defined benefit pension scheme acquired and applicable payment multipliers dependent on those results.
The surplus or deficit in the defined benefit pension scheme that is The initial amount of the deferred consideration is recognised as a liability recognised through the Statement of Comprehensive Income is subject in the Statement of Financial Position.
Each period end management to a number of assumptions and uncertainties.
The calculated liabilities of reassess the amount expected to be paid and any changes to the initial the scheme are based on assumptions regarding salary increases, inflation amount are recognised as a finance income or expense in the Income rates, discount rates, the long-term expected return on the schemes assets Statement.
Significant management judgement is required to determine and member longevity.
Details of the assumptions used are shown in note the amount of deferred consideration that is likely to be paid, particularly 27.
Such assumptions are based on actuarial advice and are benchmarked in relation to the future profitability of the acquired business.
Acquisition option commitments Taxation The group is party to a number of put and call options over the remaining The groups tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total non-controlling interests in some of its subsidiaries.
IAS39 Financial current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the groups total Instruments: Recognition and Measurement requires the discounted tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in present value of these acquisition option commitments to be recognised respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined as a liability on the Statement of Financial Position with a corresponding until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as decrease in reserves.
The discounts are unwound as a notional interest appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some charge to the Income Statement.
Key areas of judgement in calculating of these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash flow the discounted present value of the options are the expected future cash variances.
flows and earnings of the business, the period remaining until the option is exercised and the discount rate.
At September 30 2012 the discounted The group is a multi-national group with tax affairs in many geographical present value of these acquisition option commitments was 7.9 million locations.
This inherently leads to a higher than usual complexity to the 2011: 11.0 million.
groups tax structure and makes the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control Share-based payments of the group and it is often dependent on the efficiency of the legislative The group makes long-term incentive payments to certain employees.
processes in the relevant taxing jurisdictions in which the group operates.
These payments are measured at their estimated fair value at the date of Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect grant, calculated using an appropriate option pricing model.
The fair value of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be expected vesting period, based on the estimate of the number of shares substantial differences between the tax charge in the Income Statement that will eventually vest.
The key assumptions used in calculating the fair and tax payments.
value of the options are the discount rate, the groups share price volatility, dividend yield, risk free rate of return, and expected option lives.
70 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Forward contracts 2 Key judgemental areas adopted in preparing these The group is exposed to foreign exchange risk in the form of transactions in financial statements continued foreign currencies entered into by group companies and by the translation The group has certain significant open items in several tax jurisdictions of the results of foreign subsidiaries into sterling for reporting purposes.
and as a result the amounts recognised in the group financial statements in respect of these items are derived from the groups best estimation The group does not hedge the translation of the results of foreign and judgement, as described above.
However, the inherent uncertainty subsidiaries, consequently, fluctuations in the value of sterling versus regarding the outcome of these items means eventual resolution could foreign currencies could materially affect the amount of these items in the differ from the accounting estimates and therefore affect the groups consolidated financial statements, even if their values have not changed results and cash flows.
The group does endeavour to match foreign currency borrowings to investments in order to provide a natural hedge Recognition of deferred tax assets for the translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
The recognition of net deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in Subsidiaries normally do not hedge transactions in foreign currencies into the future, against which the reversal of temporary differences can be the functional currency of their own operations.
However, at a group level deducted.
Recognition, therefore, involves judgement regarding the a series of US dollar and Euro forward contracts is put in place up to 18 future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in months forward partially to hedge its US dollar and Euro denominated which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
The timing and value of these forward contracts is based on managements estimate of its future US dollar and Euro revenues Historical differences between forecast and actual taxable profits have not over an 18 month period.
If management materially underestimate the resulted in material adjustments to the recognition of deferred tax assets.
groups future US dollar or Euro revenues this would lead to too few At September 30 2012, the group had a deferred tax asset of 7.3 million forward contracts being in place and the group being more exposed to 2011: 13.2 million.
swings in US dollar and Euro to sterling exchange rates.
An overestimate of the groups US dollar or Euro revenues would lead to associated costs Treasury Interest rate exposure in unwinding the excess forward contracts.
At September 30 2012, the Interest rate swaps are used to manage the groups exposure to fluctuations fair value of the groups forward contracts was a net asset of 2.8 million in interest rates on its floating rate borrowings.
The maturity profile of 2011: 4.3 million liability.
these derivatives is matched with the expected future debt profile of the group.
The groups policy is to fix the interest rates on approximately 80% Details of the financial instruments used are set out in note 19 to the of its term debt looking forward over five years.
The expected future debt accounts.
profile of the group is based on estimates of both timings and size of future, as yet unknown, acquisitions offset by an estimate of the cash generated by the group over a five year period.
If management materially underestimate the groups future debt profile this would lead to too few interest rate instruments being in place and the group more exposed to swings in interest rates.
An overestimate of the groups future debt profile would lead to associated costs in unwinding the excess interest rate instruments.
At September 30 2012, the fair value of the groups interest rate swaps was a liability of 0.6 million 2011: 2.6 million.
71 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3 Segmental analysis Segmental information is presented in respect of the groups business divisions and reflects the groups management and internal reporting structure.
The group is organised into five business divisions: Financial publishing: Business publishing: Training: Conferences and seminars: and Research and data.
Financial publishing and Business publishing consist primarily of advertising and subscription revenue.
The Training division consists primarily of delegate revenue.
Conferences and seminars consists of both sponsorship income and delegate revenue.
Research and data consists of subscription revenue.
A breakdown of the groups revenue by type is set out below.
Analysis of the groups three main geographical areas is also set out to provide additional information on the trading performance of the businesses.
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates and shown in the eliminations columns below.
Operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, long-term incentive expense and exceptional items refer to the appendix to the Chairmans Statement.
Acquired intangible amortisation represents amortisation of acquisition related non-goodwill assets such as trademarks and brands, customer relationships and databases note 12.
Acquired intangible Long-term Depreciation and amortisation incentive expense Exceptional items amortisation 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Other segmental information by division: Financial publishing 47 797 3,291 18 10 60 Business publishing 2,663 2,817 940 1,758 15 20 Training 295 1,134 16 19 Conferences and seminars 461 354 1,492 4,202 94 52 49 Research and data 11,537 8,875 1,742 3,058 1,541 2,979 1,491 854 Sold closed businesses 601 2 Unallocated corporate costs 121 128 1,035 2,652 285 2,163 1,948 14,782 12,221 6,301 16,095 1,617 3,295 3,747 2,952 73 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3 Segmental analysis continued United Kingdom North America Rest of World Total 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-current assets excluding financial instruments and deferred tax assets by location: Goodwill 91,555 91,555 237,005 244,604 4,505 473 333,065 336,632 Other intangible assets 32,688 35,638 102,223 117,486 1,332 286 136,243 153,410 Investments 735 735 Property, plant and equipment 13,716 14,419 3,309 4,697 957 1,274 17,982 20,390 Non-current assets 138,694 141,612 342,537 366,787 6,794 2,033 488,025 510,432 Capital expenditure by location 431 512 810 639 424 961 1,665 2,112 The group has taken advantage of paragraph 23 of IFRS 8 Operating segments and does not provide segmental analysis of net assets as this information is not used by the directors in operational decision making or monitoring of the businesses performance.
4 Operating profit 2012 2011 000 000 Revenue 394,144 363,142 Cost of sales 98,308 94,881 Gross profit 295,836 268,261 Distribution costs 4,280 4,025 Administrative expenses 196,081 186,879 Operating profit before associates 95,475 77,357 Administrative expenses include an acquisition credit of 205,000 2011: acquisition cost of 1,012,000, an intangible asset impairment of nil 2011: 120,000 and restructuring and other exceptional costs of 1,822,000 2011: 2,163,000 note 5.
74 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 4 Operating profit continued 2012 2011 000 000 Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : Staff costs note 7 159,305 157,572 Intangible amortisation: Acquired intangible amortisation 14,782 12,221 Licences and software 339 302 Intangible asset impairment note 5 120 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3,408 2,651 Auditors remuneration: Group audit 779 761 Assurance services 95 85 Non-audit 41 55 Property operating lease rentals 6,405 6,276 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 53 11 Restructuring and other exceptional costs note 5 1,822 2,163 Acquisition credit costs note 5 205 1,012 Foreign exchange loss gain 524 1,196 Audit and non-audit services relate to: 2012 2011 000 000 Group audit: Fees payable for the audit of the companys annual accounts 447 509 Fees payable for other services to the group: Audit of subsidiaries pursuant to local legislation 332 252 Audit services provided to all group companies 779 761 Assurance services: Interim review 95 85 Non-audit services: Tax services 28 51 Other services 13 4 41 55 Total group auditors remuneration 915 901 75 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5 Exceptional items Exceptional items are items of income or expense considered by the directors, either individually or if of a similar type in aggregate, as being either material or significant and which require additional disclosure in order to provide an indication of the underlying trading performance of the group.
2012 2011 000 000 Acquisition credit costs 205 1,012 Intangible asset impairment note 12 120 Restructuring and other exceptional costs 1,822 2,163 1,617 3,295 In 2012 the group recognised an exceptional expense of 1,617,000.
This comprised an exceptional restructuring charge of 1,822,000 following the reorganisation of certain group functions, and acquisition legal costs of 94,000 in connection with the acquisition of Global Grain offset by a credit of 299,000 following the release of previously accrued costs in relation to the acquisition of Ned Davis Research.
The groups tax charge includes a related tax credit of 456,000.
The exceptional restructuring charge of 1,822,000 includes 1,564,000 recognised in relation to the termination benefits.
For the year ended September 30 2011, the group recognised costs of 1,012,000 relating to the acquisition of Ned Davis Research and exceptional restructuring and other costs of 2,163,000.
In July 2011, the group purchased the Coaltrans publishing brand for 120,000 to supplement the existing Coaltrans conference brand.
The group did not plan to publish under the brand and as such immediately impaired the related intangible asset.
The groups tax charge included a related tax credit of 312,000.
6 Additional accelerated long-term incentive expense In 2011 the group recognised an additional accelerated long-term incentive expense of 6,603,000.
The CAP 2010 adjusted pre-tax profit target of 100 million was achieved in financial year 2011, two years earlier than expected.
Following modification, the internal rules of the plan prevent the awards vesting to employees more than one year early, so although the primary condition had been achieved the award pool was to be allocated to holders of awards based on the profits achieved in financial year 2012.
See Directors Remuneration Report for further information.
However, despite the awards not vesting in February 2012, IFRS 2 Share-based payments required the group to accelerate recognition of the CAP 2010 accounting charge as if the awards vested in February 2012.
The total charge over the life of the scheme remains unchanged at 30 million.
Profit before tax excluding acquired intangible amortisation, CAP 2010 element of long-term incentive expense, exceptional items, profits from significant acquisitions, net movements in acquisition option commitments values and imputed interest on acquisition option commitments as set out in the Income Statement note 5 and note 8.
76 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 7 Staff costs i Number of staff including directors and temporary staff 2012 2011 Average Average By business segment: Financial publishing 351 349 Business publishing 262 243 Training 123 122 Conferences and seminars 250 250 Research and data 890 845 Central 387 390 2,263 2,199 2012 2011 Average Average By geographical location: United Kingdom 806 793 North America 751 663 Rest of World 706 743 2,263 2,199 ii Staff costs including directors and temporary staff 2012 2011 000 000 Salaries, wages and incentives 140,203 129,523 Social security costs 10,436 9,713 Pension contributions 2,365 2,243 Long-term incentive expense 6,301 16,093 159,305 157,572 Details of directors remuneration has been disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 47.
77 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 8 Finance income and expense 2012 2011 000 000 Finance income Interest income: Interest receivable from DMGT group undertakings 18 136 Interest receivable from short-term investments 153 174 Expected return on pension scheme assets 1,329 1,451 Net movements in acquisition option commitment values note 25 2,940 Movement in acquisition deferred consideration 35 4,475 1,761 Finance expense Interest expense: Interest payable on committed borrowings 4,728 7,007 Interest payable to DMGT group undertakings 25 Interest payable on loan notes 9 15 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 1,314 1,290 Net movements in acquisition option commitment values note 25 358 Imputed interest on acquisition option commitments note 25 977 181 Movement in acquisition deferred consideration 1,829 Interest on tax underpaid 958 317 Fair value losses on financial instruments: Ineffectiveness of interest rate swaps and forward contracts 55 307 8,041 11,329 Net finance costs 3,566 9,568 2012 2011 000 000 Reconciliation of net finance costs in Income Statement to adjusted net finance costs Total net finance costs in Income Statement 3,566 9,568 Add back: Net movements in acquisition option commitment values 2,940 358 Imputed interest on acquisition option commitments 977 181 Movement in acquisition deferred consideration 35 1,829 1,998 2,368 Adjusted net finance costs 5,564 7,200 The reconciliation of net finance costs in the Income Statement has been provided since the directors consider it necessary in order to provide an indication of the adjusted net finance costs.
78 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 9 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 2012 2011 000 000 Current tax expense UK corporation tax expense 8,229 4,018 Foreign tax expense 13,243 12,359 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1,294 709 22,766 15,668 Deferred tax credit expense Current year 2,759 7,605 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2,997 746 238 6,859 Total tax expense in Income Statement 22,528 22,527 Effective tax rate 24% 33% The adjusted effective tax rate for the year is set out below: 2012 2011 000 000 Reconciliation of tax expense in Income Statement to adjusted tax expense Total tax expense in Income Statement 22,528 22,527 Add back: Tax on intangible amortisation 5,146 4,041 Tax on exceptional items 456 312 Tax on additional accelerated long-term incentive expense 493 5,602 4,846 Tax on US goodwill amortisation 6,474 4,664 Tax adjustments in respect of prior years 1,703 1,455 831 1,637 Adjusted tax expense 23,359 24,164 Adjusted profit before tax refer to the appendix to the Chairmans Statement 106,769 92,684 Adjusted effective tax rate 22% 26% The group presents the above adjusted effective tax rate to help users of this report better understand its tax charge.
In arriving at this rate, the group removes the tax effect of items which are adjusted for in arriving at the adjusted profit disclosed in the appendix to the Chairmans Statement.
However, the current tax effect of goodwill and intangible items is not removed.
The group considers that the resulting adjusted effective tax rate is more representative of its tax payable position, as the deferred tax effect on the goodwill and intangible items is not expected to crystallise.
The UK income tax expense is based on a blended rate of the UK statutory rates of corporation tax during the year to September302012 of 25% 2011: 27% and reflects the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 26% to 24% from April 1 2012 and to 23% from April 1 2013.
This change has resulted in a small deferred tax credit arising on the reduction in the carrying value of deferred tax liabilities reflecting the anticipated rate of tax at which those liabilities are expected to reverse.
79 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 9 Tax on profit on ordinary activities continued The actual tax expense for the year is different from 25% of profit before tax for the reasons set out in the following reconciliation: 2012 2011 000 000 Profit before tax 92,368 68,197 Tax at 25% 2011: 27% 23,092 18,413 Factors affecting tax charge: Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in overseas jurisdictions 3,767 2,021 Associate income reported net of tax 115 110 US state taxes 833 1,116 Goodwill and intangibles 32 48 Disallowable expenditure 1,325 1,001 Other items deductible for tax purposes 3,824 Effect of additional accelerated long-term incentive expense 1,717 Tax impact of consortium relief 861 354 Deferred tax credit charge arising from changes in tax laws 18 229 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1,703 1,458 Total tax expense for the year 22,528 22,527 The UK government has indicated that it intends to enact a further reduction in the UK corporation tax rate of 1% to 22% by April 1 2014.
The directors expect that the future tax rate changes will reduce the UK deferred tax asset recognised but the actual impact will be dependent on the deferred tax position at the time.
In addition to the amount charged to the Income Statement, the following amounts relating to tax have been directly recognised in other comprehensive income: 2012 2011 000 000 Current tax 602 Deferred tax 1,329 1,395 727 1,395 80 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 10 Dividends 2012 2011 000 000 Amounts recognisable as distributable to equity holders in period Final dividend for the year ended September 30 2011 of 12.50p 2010: 11.75p 15,162 13,928 Interim dividend for year ended September 30 2012 of 7.00p 2011: 6.25p 8,643 7,531 23,805 21,459 Employees Share Ownership Trust dividend 11 11 23,794 21,448 Proposed final dividend for the year ended September 30 18,342 15,156 Employees Share Ownership Trust dividend 9 7 18,333 15,149 The proposed final dividend of 14.75p 2011: 12.50p is subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on January 31 2013 and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements in accordance with IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date.
11 Earnings per share 2012 2011 000 000 Basic earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent 69,672 45,591 Acquired intangible amortisation 14,782 12,221 Exceptional items 1,617 3,295 Imputed interest on acquisition option commitments 977 181 Net movement in acquisition option commitment values 2,940 358 Movements in acquisition deferred consideration 35 1,829 Additional accelerated long-term incentive expense 6,603 Tax on the above adjustments 5,602 4,846 Tax on US goodwill amortisation 6,474 4,664 Tax adjustments in respect of prior years 1,703 1,455 Adjusted earnings 83,242 68,441 81 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11 Earnings per share continued 2012 2012 2011 2011 Adjusted Adjusted Adjusted Adjusted basic diluted basic diluted earnings earnings earnings earnings per share per share per share per share Number Number Number Number 000s 000s 000s 000s Weighted average number of shares 122,859 122,859 119,957 119,957 Shares held by the Employees Share Ownership Trust 59 59 59 59 Weighted average number of shares 122,800 122,800 119,898 119,898 Effect of dilutive share options 3,490 2,214 Diluted weighted average number of shares 126,290 122,112 Pence Pence Pence Pence per share per share per share per share Basic earnings per share 56.74 56.74 38.02 38.02 Effect of dilutive share options 1.57 0.68 Diluted earnings per share 55.17 37.34 Effect of acquired intangible amortisation 12.04 11.70 10.19 10.01 Effect of exceptional items 1.32 1.28 2.75 2.70 Effect of imputed interest on acquisition option commitments 0.80 0.77 0.15 0.15 Effect of net movements in acquisition option commitment values 2.39 2.33 0.30 0.29 Effect of movement in acquisition deferred consideration 0.03 0.03 1.53 1.50 Effect of additional accelerated long-term incentive expense 5.51 5.41 Effect of tax on the above adjustments 4.57 4.43 4.04 3.98 Effect of tax on US goodwill amortisation 5.27 5.13 3.89 3.82 Effect of tax adjustments in respect of prior years 1.39 1.35 1.21 1.19 Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share 67.79 65.91 57.09 56.05 The adjusted diluted earnings per share figure has been disclosed since the directors consider it necessary in order to give an indication of the underlying trading performance.
All of the above earning figures per share relate to continuing operations.
82 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12 Goodwill and other intangibles continued Intangible assets, other than goodwill, have a finite life and are amortised over their expected useful lives at the rates set out in the accounting policies in note 1 of this report.
The carrying amounts of acquired intangible assets and goodwill by business are as follows: Acquired intangible assets Goodwill 2012 2011 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 CEIC 2,456 2,537 13,025 13,501 Internet Securities 8,406 8,714 MIS 2,550 2,644 Petroleum Economist 236 236 Gulf Publishing 4,723 4,896 HedgeFund Intelligence 14,718 14,718 Information Management Network 3,199 3,646 29,243 30,313 MAR 44 55 185 192 BCA 62,780 71,770 143,187 148,426 Metal Bulletin publishing businesses 24,590 27,365 52,710 52,710 FOW 196 196 Total Derivatives 2,292 2,729 8,180 8,180 TelCap 2,379 2,549 10,448 10,448 Benchmark Financials 234 286 456 473 Arete 2,801 2,996 4,794 4,794 NDR 33,346 38,916 35,951 36,182 Global Grain Geneva 1,098 4,048 Other 9 9 Total 135,219 152,849 333,065 336,632 Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units businesses that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
During the year the goodwill in respect of each of the above businesses was tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
The methodology applied to the value in use calculations, reflecting past experience and external sources of information, included: forecasts by business based on pre-tax cash ows derived from approved budgets for 2013.
Management believe these budgets to be reasonably achievable: subsequent cash ows for between one and three additional years increased in line with growth expectations of the applicable business: the pre-tax discount rate of 8.5%, reecting the companies weighted average cost of capital WACC : and long-term nominal growth rate of 3%.
Certain businesses, after the annual impairment review required under IAS 36, had a limited value in use in excess of the carrying value of 1.9 million.
For these businesses management has set out below the change in assumptions required, in isolation, in order for the estimated carrying value to be equal or less than the value in use.
The change in assumptions are summarised as follows: Increase in the WACC by 1% point.
Decrease in the long-term growth rate by 3% points.
The result of the change in assumptions of a 3% decrease in growth rates and a 1% increase in WACC would result in an impairment of 0.3 million.
Management believes that the general market conditions indicate that a decrease in growth rates to 0% or a WACC of 9.5% would be severe.
Management will continue to conduct regular reviews to monitor this matter.
84 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
85 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14 Investments Investments Investments in associated in associated undertakings undertakings 2012 2011 000 000 At October 1 248 Additions 567 Share of profits after tax retained 459 408 Dividends 291 656 At September 30 735 Associated undertakings The associated undertakings at September 30 2012 were Capital NET Limited, whose principal activity is the provision of electronic database services, and GGA Pte.
Limited whose sole asset is Global Grain Asia, a new event for grain industry professionals in the Asia-Pacific region.
The group has a 48.4% 2011: 48.4% interest in Capital NET Limited and a 50% interest in GGA Pte.
Capital NET Limited does not have a coterminous year end with the group.
The total assets, liabilities, revenues and profit after tax generated by Capital NET Limited from its latest available audited accounts at December 31 are set out below.
Dec 31 Dec 31 2011 2010 000 000 Total assets 603 560 Total liabilities 224 213 Total revenues 2,035 1,853 Profit after tax 733 568 The total assets, liabilities, revenues and profit after tax generated by GGA Pte.
Limited at September 30 are set out below: Sep 30 2012 000 Total assets 172 Total liabilities 55 Total revenues 327 Profit after tax 119 Assets available for sale The group has a 50% interest in Capital DATA Limited Capital DATA.
The ordinary share capital of Capital DATA is divided into 50 A shares and 50 B shares with the group owning the 50 A shares.
Under the terms of the Articles of Association of Capital DATA, the A shares held by the group do not carry entitlement to any share of dividends or other distribution of profits of Capital DATA.
The group does not have the ability to exercise significant influence nor is it involved in the day-to-day running of Capital DATA.
As such the investment in Capital DATA is accounted for as an asset available-for-sale with a carrying value of nil 2011: nil.
Under a separate licence agreement the group is entitled to 28.2% of Capital DATAs revenues being 5,065,000 in the year 2011: 4,543,000.
At December 31 2011, based on its latest available audited accounts, Capital DATA had 515,000 of issued share capital and reserves December 31 2010: 739,000, and its profit for the year then ended was 1,026,000 December 31 2010: 1,064,000.
86 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 14 Investments continued Details of the company and its principal subsidiary undertakings included in these consolidated financial statements at September302012 are as follows: Proportion Principal activity Country of held and operation incorporation Company Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC n a Investment holding company United Kingdom Direct investments Euromoney Institutional Investor Jersey Limited 100% Publishing Jersey Fantfoot Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Canada Limited 57.2% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Canada Finance Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Jersey Limited 100% Investment holding company Jersey Indirect investments Adhesion Group SA 100% Conventions France BCA Research, Inc. 100% Information services Canada BPR Benchmark Limitada 99.9% Information services Columbia Carlcroft Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom CEIC Holdings Limited 99.9% Information services Hong Kong Coaltrans Conferences Limited 99.7% Conferences United Kingdom Davis, Mendel & Regenstein Inc. 84.5% Information services US EII Holdings, Inc. 100% Investment holding company US EII US, Inc. 100% Investment holding company US Euromoney Canada Limited 42.8% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Charles Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Consortium Limited 99.7% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Consortium 2 Limited 99.7% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Holdings US, Inc 100% Investment holding company US Euromoney Institutional Investor Ventures Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Partnership LLP 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Singapore Pte Limited 100% Training Singapore Euromoney Trading Limited 99.7% Publishing, training and events United Kingdom Euromoney Training, Inc. 100% Training US Euromoney, Inc. 100% Training US EIMN, LLC 100% Conferences US Glenprint Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Global Commodities Group Sarl 100% Conferences Switzerland GSCS Benchmarks Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Gulf Publishing Company, Inc. 100% Publishing US HedgeFund Intelligence Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Institutional Investor LLC 100% Publishing US Internet Securities, Inc. 99.9% Information services US Latin American Financial Publications, Inc. 100% Publishing US Metal Bulletin Holdings LLC 100% Investment holding company US Metal Bulletin Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom MIS Training UK Limited 100% Training United Kingdom Ned Davis Research Inc. 84.5% Information services US Structured Retail Products Limited 98.5% Information services United Kingdom TelCap Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom The Petroleum Economist Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Tipall Limited 100% Property holding United Kingdom Total Derivatives Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Associates Capital NET Limited 48.4% Databases United Kingdom GGA Pte.
Limited 50% Conferences Singapore All holdings are of ordinary shares.
In addition to the above, the group has a small number of branches outside the United Kingdom.
100% preference shares held in addition.
Euromoney Institutional Investor Jersey Limiteds principal country of operation is Hong Kong.
87 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 15 Acquisitions Purchase of new business Global Grain Geneva On February 29 2012, the group acquired 100% of the equity share capital of Global Commodities Group Sarl, which owns Global Grain Geneva, the worlds leading event for international grain traders.
The initial consideration paid was 6,159,000 5,134,000.
A further net consideration of 93,000 77,000 is expected to be paid dependent upon the audited results of the business for the year to February 2013.
The acquisition of Global Grain is consistent with the groups strategy of building fast growing global event businesses.
The acquisition accounting is set out below and is provisional, pending final determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired: Fair value Provisional Book value adjustments fair value 000 000 000 Net assets: Intangible assets 1,272 1,272 Cash and cash equivalents 35 35 Trade creditors and other payables 31 31 Non-current liabilities 305 305 4 967 971 Net assets acquired 100% 971 Goodwill 4,240 Total consideration 5,211 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 5,134 Deferred consideration 77 5,211 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 5,134 Less: cash and cash equivalent balances acquired 35 5,099 Intangible assets represent brands 867,000 719,000 and customer relationships 666,000 553,000, for which amortisation of 126,000 has been charged in the period.
The brands and customer relationships will be amortised over their useful economic lives of 20 years and three years respectively.
Goodwill arises from the anticipated profitability and future operating synergies from combining the acquired operations with the group.
The goodwill recognised is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Global Grain Geneva contributed nil to the groups revenue and incurred an operating loss of 96,000 and a loss after tax of 96,000 for the period between the date of acquisition and September 30 2012.
Acquisition related costs of 94,000 were incurred and recognised as an exceptional item in the Income Statement.
If the above acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Global Grain Geneva would have contributed 1,062,000 to the groups revenues and 627,000 to the groups profit before tax for the year excluding the exceptional costs above.
The deferred consideration is dependent on the results of the business for the period to December312012 and is calculated using discounted cash flows.
Following a sensitivity analysis of the fair value of the deferred consideration applying reasonably possible assumptions and a 10% change in expected revenues, the potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the group could be required to make under this deferred consideration arrangement is between nil and 276,000.
88 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 15 Acquisitions continued Purchase of associate Global Grain Asia Also on February 29 2012, the group acquired 50% of the issued share capital of GGA Pte.
Limited, whose sole asset is Global Grain Asia, a new event for grain industry professionals in the Asia-Pacific region, for 671,000 567,000.
The group has the option to purchase the remaining 50% equity holding of GGA Pte.
Limited in March 2014 and if exercised expects to pay 1,021,000 813,000.
Under IAS 32 Financial Instruments this acquisition option commitment is not recorded as a liability in the balance sheet.
Fair value and goodwill update Ned Davis Research NDR In August 2011, the group acquired 85% of the equity share capital of NDR, the US-based provider of independent financial research to institutional investors, for an initial cash consideration of US$112.0 million 68.5 million.
During the year changes have been made to the cash payable following the final working capital calculation, the cash receivable from non-controlling interests, the finalisation of the sellers tax liability, the accounting policy alignment of property, plant and equipment and the recognition of previously unrecognised tax liabilities.
Following these true-up adjustments, the related goodwill, fair value of net assets acquired and consideration have been finalised as follows: Provisional Final fair value Change fair value 000 000 000 Fair value of net assets acquired 33,869 809 33,060 Goodwill 34,337 1,008 35,345 Total consideration 68,206 199 68,405 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 68,500 1,151 69,651 Cash receivable from non-controlling interest 1,390 438 1,828 Deferred consideration 1,096 514 582 68,206 199 68,405 The remaining equity interest is subject to a put and call option under an earn-out agreement, in two equal instalments, based on the profits of NDR for the years to December 31 2012 and 2013.
The expected payment under this mechanism has decreased from 10,149,000 at September 30 2011 to 7,812,000 at September 30 2012 resulting in a credit to the Income Statement of 2,011,000 and a foreign exchange gain of 326,000 recognised in reserves.
Increase in equity holdings Internet Securities, Inc ISI There is an annual put option agreement over the sale of ISI shares between the company and the non-controlling shareholders of ISI.
The annual put option value is based on the valuation of ISI as determined under a methodology provided by an independent financial adviser.
Under the terms of the put option agreement consideration caps have been put in place that require the maximum consideration payable to option holders to be capped at an amount such that the results of any relevant class tests would, at the relevant time, fall below the requirement for shareholder approval.
In February 2012, under this put option mechanism, the group purchased 1.12% of the equity share capital of ISI for a cash consideration of US$1,326,000 840,000, increasing the groups equity shareholding in ISI to 99.92%.
Structured Retail Products Limited SRP In December 2011, the group purchased 1.14% of the equity share capital of SRP from some of its employees for a cash consideration of 84,000 increasing the groups equity shareholding in SRP to 98.48%.
89 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16 Trade and other receivables 2012 2011 000 000 Amounts falling due within one year Trade receivables 54,146 58,835 Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables 6,471 7,697 Trade receivables net of provision 47,675 51,138 Amounts owed by DMGT group undertakings 2,344 2,221 Other debtors 5,560 10,489 Prepayments 6,904 6,061 Accrued income 3,469 1,508 65,952 71,417 The average credit period on sales of goods and services is 30 days.
Trade receivables beyond 60 days overdue are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods and services, determined by reference to past default experience.
Credit terms for customers are determined in individual territories.
Concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited due to the groups customer base being large and diverse.
Due to this, management believe there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal provision for doubtful receivables.
There are no customers who represent more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables.
As of September 30 2012, trade receivables of 15,469,000 2011: 20,111,000 were past due for which the group has not provided as there has been no significant change in their credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The average age of these receivables is 77 days 2011: 67 days.
The group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
The ageing of these trade receivables is as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 Past due less than a month 7,156 11,956 Past due more than a month but less than two months 3,348 3,894 Past due more than two months but less than three months 1,985 2,168 Past due more than three months 2,980 2,093 15,469 20,111 As at September 30 2012, trade receivables of 14,414,000 2011: 9,574,000 were impaired and partially provided for.
It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 Past due less than a month 7,713 116 Past due more than a month but less than two months 2,857 3,125 Past due more than two months but less than three months 1,123 1,373 Past due more than three months 2,721 4,960 14,414 9,574 90 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 16 Trade and other receivables continued Movements on the group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 At October 1 7,697 8,036 Impairment losses recognised 3,271 3,070 Impairment losses reversed 3,266 2,668 Amounts written off as uncollectible 1,153 765 Exchange differences 78 24 At September 30 6,471 7,697 In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated.
Accordingly, the directors believe that there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
The allowance for doubtful debts does not include individually impaired trade receivables which have been placed under liquidation as these trade receivables are written off directly to the Income Statement.
17 Trade and other payables 2012 2011 000 000 Trade creditors 4,170 5,558 Amounts owed to DMGT group undertakings 3 51 Other creditors 23,527 24,361 27,700 29,970 The directors consider the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate their fair values.
18 Deferred income 2012 2011 000 000 Deferred subscription income 81,020 80,507 Other deferred income 24,086 25,000 105,106 105,507 91 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19 Financial instruments and risk management Derivative financial instruments The derivative financial assets liabilities at September 30 comprised: 2012 2011 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 000 000 000 000 Current Interest rate swaps fair value through profit and loss 156 Interest rate swaps cash flow hedge 283 1,251 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value through profit and loss 332 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedge 2,715 217 1,126 4,692 2,715 656 1,126 6,275 Non-current Interest rate swaps fair value through profit and loss 206 307 Interest rate swaps cash flow hedge 1,008 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedge 296 35 218 655 296 241 218 1,970 3,011 897 1,344 8,245 Financial risk management objectives The groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk arising in the normal course of business.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates but are not employed for speculative purposes.
Full details of the objectives, policies and strategies pursued by the group in relation to financial risk management are set out on page 65 of the accounting policies and page 71 of the key judgemental areas.
In summary, the groups tax and treasury committee normally meets twice a year and is responsible for recommending policy to the board.
The groups treasury policies are directed to giving greater certainty of future costs and revenues and ensuring that the group has adequate liquidity for working capital and debt capacity for funding acquisitions.
The treasury department does not act as a profit centre, nor does it undertake any speculative trading activity and it operates within policies and procedures approved by the board.
Interest rate swaps are used to manage the groups exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on its floating rate borrowings.
Further details are set out in the interest rate risk section on page 96.
Forward contracts are used to manage the groups exposure to fluctuations in exchange rate movements.
Further details are set out in the foreign exchange rate risk section page 94.
Capital risk management The group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The groups overall strategy remains unchanged from 2011.
The capital structure of the group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 20, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
92 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 19 Financial instruments and risk management continued Net debt to EBITDA ratio The groups tax and treasury committee reviews the groups capital structure at least twice a year.
As part of the debt covenants under the loan facility provided by Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT, the board has to ensure that net debt to a rolling 12 month EBITDA does not exceed four times.
The group expects to be able to remain within these limits during the life of the facility.
The net debt to EBITDA covenant is defined to allow the rate used in the translation of US dollar EBITDA, including hedging contracts, to be used also in the calculation of net debt, thereby removing any distortion to the covenant from increases in net debt due to short-term movements in the US dollar.
The net debt to EBITDA ratio at September 30 is as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 Committed loan facility at weighted average exchange rate 43,127 123,022 Loan notes 1,228 1,617 Total debt 44,355 124,639 Cash and cash equivalents 13,544 12,497 Net debt 30,811 112,142 EBITDA 116,080 111,192 Net debt to EBITDA ratio 0.27 1.01 EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation adjusted operating profit before depreciation and amortisation of licences and software, adjusted for the timing impact of acquisitions and disposals.
Categories of financial instruments The groups financial assets and liabilities at September 30 are as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 Financial assets Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 3,011 1,344 Loans and receivables including cash and cash equivalents 72,592 79,402 75,603 80,746 Financial liabilities Derivative instruments fair value through profit and loss 362 639 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 535 7,606 Acquisition option commitments note 25 7,868 11,001 Loans and payables including overdrafts 140,361 229,740 149,126 248,986 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities above are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy other than acquisition option commitments which are classified as level 3 page 100. i Market price risk Market price risk is the possibility that changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates or commodity prices will adversely affect the value of the groups financial assets, liabilities or expected future cash flows.
The groups primary market risks are interest rate fluctuations and exchange rate movements.
Derivatives are used to hedge or reduce the risks of interest rate and exchange rate movements and are not entered into unless such risks exist.
Derivatives used by the group for hedging a particular risk are not specialised and are generally available from numerous sources.
The fair values of interest rate swaps, currency options and forward exchange contracts are set out in this note and represent the value for which an asset could be sold or liability settled between knowledgeable willing parties in an arms length transaction calculated using the market rates of interest and exchange at September 30 2012.
The group has no other material market price risks.
93 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19 Financial instruments and risk management continued Market risk exposures are measured using sensitivity analysis.
There has been no change to the groups exposure to market risks or the manner in which it manages and measures the risks during the year.
ii Foreign exchange rate risk The groups principal foreign exchange exposure is to US dollar.
The group generates approximately two-thirds of its revenues in US dollars, including approximately 30% of the revenues in its UK-based businesses, and approximately 60% of its operating profits are US dollar-denominated.
The group is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk on the US dollar revenues in its UK businesses, the translation of results of foreign subsidiaries and external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is not in the functional currency of the lender borrower.
The carrying amounts of the groups US dollar-denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: Assets Liabilities 2012 2011 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 US dollar 58,770 84,074 5,956 7,967 Subsidiaries normally do not hedge transactions in foreign currencies into the functional currency of their own operations.
However, at a group level, a series of US dollar and Euro forward contracts are put in place to sell forward surplus US dollars and Euros so as to hedge 80% of the groups UK based US dollar and Euro revenues for the coming 12 months and 50% of the groups UK based US dollar and Euro revenues for the subsequent six months.
The timing and value of these forward contracts is based on managements estimate of its future US dollar and Euro revenues over an 18 month period and is regularly reviewed and revised with any changes in estimates resulting in either additional forward contracts being taken out or existing contracts maturity dates being moved forward or back.
If management materially underestimate the groups future US dollar and Euro denominated revenues, this would lead to too few forward contracts being in place and the group being more exposed to swings in US dollar and Euro to sterling exchange rates.
An overestimate of the groups US dollar and Euro denominated revenues would lead to associated costs in unwinding the excess forward contracts.
The group also has a significant operation in Canada whose revenues are mainly in US dollars.
At a group level a series of US dollar forward contracts is put in place up to 18 months forward to hedge the operations Canadian cost base.
In addition, each subsidiary is encouraged to invoice sales in its local functional currency where possible.
Forward exchange contracts are gross settled at maturity.
The following table details the groups sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in sterling against US dollar.
A 10% sensitivity has been determined by the board as the sensitivity rate appropriate when reporting an estimated foreign currency risk internally and represents managements assessment of a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates at the reporting date.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is not in the functional currency of the lender borrower.
Where sterling strengthens 10% against the relevant currency a positive number below indicates an increase in profit and equity.
For a 10% weakening of sterling against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on the profit and other equity, and the balances below would be negative.
Impact of 10% strengthening of sterling against US dollar 2012 2011 000 000 Change in profit for the year in income statement 646 954 Change in equity 6,606 6,666 94 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 19 Financial instruments and risk management continued The decrease in the loss from the sensitivity analysis is due to an increase in the working capital asset position.
The fall in profit in equity from 6,666,000 to 6,606,000 from the sensitivity analysis is due to the decrease of the value of the derivative financial liabilities.
The group is also exposed to the translation of the results of its US dollar-denominated businesses, although the group does not hedge the translation of these results.
Consequently, fluctuations in the value of sterling versus other currencies could materially affect the translation of these results in the consolidated financial statements.
The group endeavours to match foreign currency borrowings to investments in order to provide a natural hedge for the translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries with the related foreign currency interest cost arising from these borrowings providing a partial hedge against the translation of foreign currency profits.
The change in equity is due to a 10% change in sterling against US dollars in relation to the translation of external loans and loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is not in the functional currency of the lender borrower would result in a change of 4,105,000 2011: 6,562,000.
However, the change in equity is completely offset by the change in value of the foreign operations net assets from their translation into sterling.
Forward foreign exchange contracts It is the policy of the group to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover specific foreign currency payments and receipts.
A series of US dollar and Euro forward contracts are put in place to sell forward surplus US dollars and Euros so as to hedge 80% of the groups UK based US dollar and Euro revenues for the coming 12 months and 50% of the groups UK based US dollar and Euro revenues for the subsequent six months.
In addition, at a group level a series of US dollar forward contracts is put in place up to 18 months forward to hedge the operations Canadian cost base.
95 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19 Financial instruments and risk management continued As at September 30 2012, the aggregate amount of unrealised gains under forward foreign exchange contracts deferred in the fair value reserve relating to future revenue transactions is 2,759,000 2011: losses 4,003,000.
It is anticipated that the transactions will take place over the next 18 months at which stage the amount deferred in equity will be released to the Income Statement.
As at September 30 2012, the aggregate amount of unrealised losses under ineffective cash flow hedges still in place at the year end is nil 2011: 332,000, which have been recognised in the Income Statement.
iii Interest rate risk The groups borrowings are in both sterling and US dollars with the related interest tied to LIBOR.
This results in the groups interest charge being at risk to fluctuations in interest rates.
It is the groups policy to hedge approximately 80% of its interest exposure, converting its floating rate debt into fixed debt by means of interest rate swaps.
The maturity dates are spread in order to avoid interest rate basis risk and also to negate short-term changes in interest rates.
The predictability of interest costs is deemed to be more important than the possible opportunity cost foregone of achieving lower interest rates and this hedging strategy has the effect of spreading the groups exposure to fluctuations arising from changes in interest rates and hence protects the groups interest charge against sudden increases in rates but also prevents the group from benefiting immediately from falls in rates.
The groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk section on page 98.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivative and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
A 100 basis point increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents the directors assessment of a reasonably possible change in interest rates at the reporting date.
If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the groups: profit for the year ended September 30 2012 would decrease or increase by 338,000 2011: 121,000.
This is mainly attributable to the groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings: and Other equity reserves would decrease or increase by 561,000 2011: 934,000 mainly as a result of the changes in the fair value of interest rate swaps.
The groups sensitivity to interest rates has not materially changed during the period due to the group benefiting from similar levels of fixed rates.
Interest rate swap contracts Under interest rate swap contracts, the group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated on agreed notional principal amounts.
Such contracts enable the group to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates on the fair value of issued fixed rate debt and the cash flow exposures on the issued variable rate debt.
The fair value of interest rate swaps at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the yield curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract, and is disclosed below.
96 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 19 Financial instruments and risk management continued The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding as at the reporting date.
The average interest rate is based on the outstanding balances at the end of the financial year: Cash flow hedges US dollar: Receive floating pay fixed Average contracted Notional principal fixed interest rate amount Fair value 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 % % 000 000 000 000 Less than 1 year 3.25 3.98 18,578 35,306 389 827 1 to 2 years 2.52 3.25 6,193 19,258 206 889 2 to 5 years 2.52 6,419 307 GBP: Receive floating pay fixed Average contracted Notional principal fixed interest rate amount Fair value 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 % % 000 000 000 000 Less than 1 year 2.57 4.46 5,000 15,000 50 424 1 to 2 years 2.57 5,000 119 The interest rate swaps settle on a quarterly basis.
The floating rate on the interest rate swaps is LIBOR.
The group will settle the difference between the fixed and floating interest rate on a net basis.
All interest rate swap contracts exchanging floating rate interest amounts for fixed rate interest amounts are designated as cash flow hedges in order to reduce the groups cash flow exposure resulting from variable interest rates on borrowings.
The interest rate swaps and the interest payments on the loan occur simultaneously and the amount deferred in equity is recognised in the Income Statement over the period that the floating rate interest payments on debt impact the Income Statement.
As at September 30 2012, the aggregate amount of unrealised interest under swap contracts deferred in the fair value reserve relating to future interest payable is 283,000 2011: 2,259,000.
It is anticipated that the transactions will take place over the next 18 months, at which stage the amount deferred in equity will be released to the Income Statement.
As at September 30 2012, the aggregate amount of unrealised interest under ineffective swaps still in place at the year end is 362,000 2011: 307,000 which has been recognised in the Income Statement.
Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the group.
The group seeks to limit interest rate and foreign currency risks described above by the use of financial instruments and as a result has a credit risk from the potential non-performance by the counterparties to these financial instruments, which are unsecured.
The amount of this credit risk is normally restricted to the amounts of any hedge gain and not the principal amount being hedged.
The group also has a credit exposure to counterparties for the full principal amount of cash and cash equivalents.
Credit risks are controlled by monitoring the amounts outstanding with, and the credit quality of, these counterparties.
For the groups cash and cash equivalents these are principally licensed commercial banks and investment banks with strong long-term credit ratings, and for derivative financial instruments with DMGT who have treasury policies in place which do not allow concentrations of risk with individual counterparties and do not allow significant treasury exposures with counterparties which are rated lower than AA.
97 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19 Financial instruments and risk management continued The group also has credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables, prepayments and accrued income.
The concentration of credit risk from trade receivables is limited due to the groups large and broad customer base.
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the business units where they arise.
Allowance is made for bad and doubtful debts based on managements assessment of the risk of non-payment taking into account the ageing profile, experience and circumstance.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, recorded in the Statement of Financial Position.
The group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities.
Concentration of credit risk did not exceed 5% of gross monetary assets at any time during the year.
Liquidity risk The group has significant intercompany borrowings and is an approved borrower under a DMGT $300 million dedicated multi-currency facility.
The facility is divided into US dollar and sterling funds and matures in December 2013.
The total maximum borrowing capacity is as follows: US Dollar $250 million Sterling 33 million The facility requires the group to meet certain covenants based on net debt and profits adjusted for certain non-cash items and the impact of foreign exchange.
Failure to do so would result in the group being in breach of the facility potentially resulting in the facility being withdrawn or impediment of management decision making by the lender.
Management regularly monitor the covenants and prepare detailed cash flow forecasts to ensure that sufficient headroom is available and that the covenants are not close or potentially close to breach.
At September 30 2012, the groups net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 0.27 times.
The groups strategy is to use excess operating cash to pay down its debt.
The group generally has an annual cash conversion rate the percentage by which cash generated by operations covers operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, long-term incentive expense and exceptional items of over 100%, due to much of its subscription, conference and training revenue being paid in advance.
For the year to September 30 2012 the groups cash conversion rate was 103% compared to 108% last year.
Under the DMGT facility, at September 30 2012, the group had 144.7 million of undrawn but committed facilities available.
In the absence of any significant acquisitions, the group has no pressing requirement to arrange new finance before the facility expires in December 2013.
In addition, the group has agreed terms with DMGT that provide it with access to additional funding should the group require it during the period from December 2013 through April 2016.
There is a risk that the undrawn portion of the facility, or that the additional funding, may be unavailable or withdrawn if DMGT experience funding difficulties themselves.
However, if DMGT were unable to fulfil its funding commitment to the group, the directors are confident that the group would be in a position to secure adequate external facilities, although probably at a higher cost of funding.
98 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 19 Financial instruments and risk management continued This table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual cash flows of the financial liabilities including both interest and principal cash flows.
To the extent that the interest rates are floating, the undiscounted amount is derived from interest rate curves at September 30 2012.
The contractual maturity is based on the earliest date on which the group may be required to settle.
Weighted average effective Less than interest rate 1 year 13 years Total % 000 000 000 2012 Variable rate borrowings 2.49 1,228 43,154 44,382 Acquisition option commitments 4,273 3,595 7,868 Non-interest bearing liabilities trade and other payables, and accruals 89,638 6,341 95,979 Weighted average effective Less than interest rate 1 year 13 years Total % 000 000 000 2011 Variable rate borrowings 2.34 61,682 71,543 133,225 Acquisition option commitments 852 10,149 11,001 Non-interest bearing liabilities trade and other payables, and accruals 86,219 10,296 96,515 At September 30 2012, 38,631,000 2011: 110,059,000 of borrowings were designated in US dollars with the remainder in sterling.
The average rate of interest paid on the debt was 4.82% 2011: 5.70%.
The following table details the groups remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial assets, mainly medium-term deposits for amounts on loans owed by DMGT group undertakings and equity non-controlling interests.
This table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial assets including interest that will be earned on those assets except where the group anticipate that the cash flow will occur in a different period.
Weighted average effective Less than interest rate 1 year Total % 000 000 2012 Variable interest rate instruments cash at bank 0.86 13,544 13,544 Non-interest bearing assets trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 59,048 59,048 72,592 72,592 2011 Variable interest rate instruments cash at bank and short-term deposits 1.24 14,046 14,046 Non-interest bearing assets trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 65,356 65,356 79,402 79,402 99 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19 Financial instruments and risk management continued The following table details the groups liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments.
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted net cash inflows and outflows on the derivative instrument that settle on a net basis and the undiscounted gross inflows and outflows on those derivatives that require gross settlement.
When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest rates as illustrated by the yield curves existing at the reporting date.
Less than 13 3 months 1 month months to 1 year 15 years Total 000 000 000 000 000 2012 Net settled Interest rate swaps 196 375 66 637 Gross settled Foreign exchange forward contracts inflows 7,358 13,163 67,221 22,877 110,619 Foreign exchange forward contracts outflows 7,063 12,769 65,258 22,500 107,590 295 198 1,588 311 2,392 Less than 13 3 months 1 month months to 1 year 15 years Total 000 000 000 000 000 2011 Net settled Interest rate swaps 470 758 388 1,616 Gross settled Foreign exchange forward contracts inflows 5,629 13,558 60,219 27,092 106,498 Foreign exchange forward contracts outflows 6,114 14,494 62,583 27,473 110,664 485 1,406 3,122 769 5,782 Fair value of financial instruments The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: Level 1 The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets is determined with reference to quoted market prices.
Level 2 The fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash ow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments: Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts: and Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash ows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
Level 3 If one or more significant inputs are not based on observable market date, the instrument is included in level 3.
As at September 30 2012 and the prior year, all the resulting fair value estimates have been included in level 2 other than the groups acquisition option commitments which are classified as level 3.
Other financial instruments not recorded at fair value The directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values.
100 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 20 Bank overdrafts and loans 2012 2011 000 000 Bank overdrafts current liability 1,549 Loan notes current liability 1,228 1,617 Committed loan facility current liability 58,516 Committed loan facility non-current liability 43,154 71,543 Total committed loan facility 43,154 130,059 Loan notes Loan notes were issued in October and November 2006 to fund the purchase of Metal Bulletin plc.
Interest is payable on these loan notes at a variable rate of 0.75% below LIBOR, payable in June and December.
Loan notes can be redeemed at the option of the loan note holder twice a year on the interest payment dates above.
At least 20 business days written notice prior to the redemption date is required.
During the year ended September 30 2012 386,000 2011: 420,000 of these loan notes were redeemed.
Committed loan facility The groups debt is provided through a dedicated $300 million multi-currency borrowing facility from Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT.
The total maximum borrowing capacity is $250 million 155 million and 33 million.
Interest is payable on this facility at a variable rate of between 1.4% and 3.0% above LIBOR dependent on the ratio of adjusted net debt to EBITDA.
The facilitys covenant requires the groups net debt to be no more than four times adjusted EBITDA on a rolling 12 month basis.
Failure to do so would result in the group being in breach of the facility, potentially resulting in the facility being withdrawn or impediment of management decision making by the lender.
Management regularly monitor the covenant and prepare detailed debt forecasts to ensure that sufficient headroom is available and that the covenants are not close or potentially close to breach.
101 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21 Provisions Onerous lease Other Group provision provisions total 000 000 000 At October 1 2011 2,686 3,520 6,206 Provision in the year 413 803 1,216 Used in the year 223 149 372 Exchange differences 92 3 95 At September 30 2012 2,784 4,171 6,955 Maturity profile of provisions 2012 2011 000 000 Within one year included in current liabilities 2,037 810 Between one and two years included in non-current liabilities 2,469 1,230 Between two and five years included in non-current liabilities 2,449 4,166 6,955 6,206 Onerous lease provision The onerous lease provision relates to certain buildings within the property portfolio which either at acquisition were rented at non-market rates, or are no longer occupied by the group.
Other provisions The provision consists of social security arising on share option liabilities and dilapidations on leasehold properties.
102 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 22 Deferred taxation The net deferred tax liability at September 30 2012 comprised: Income Acquisitions Exchange 2011 statement Equity and disposals differences 2012 000 000 000 000 000 000 Capitalised goodwill and intangibles 33,142 1,198 3,008 305 893 28,348 Tax deductible goodwill amortisation 2,564 2,526 38 Tax losses 2,969 1,540 62 1,367 Financial instruments 5,320 5,761 441 Other short-term temporary differences 13,280 3,106 1,424 235 254 17,791 Deferred tax 9,009 238 1,329 70 539 9,631 Comprising: Deferred tax assets 13,216 7,344 Deferred tax liabilities 22,225 16,975 9,009 9,631 Income Acquisitions Exchange 2011 statement Equity and disposals differences 2012 000 000 000 000 000 000 Other short-term temporary differences: Share-based payments 5,738 1,042 643 7,423 Pension deficit 475 630 781 626 Accelerated capital allowances 477 173 21 629 Deferred income, accruals and other provisions 6,590 2,521 235 233 9,113 Total other short-term temporary differences 13,280 3,106 1,424 235 254 17,791 At the balance sheet date, the group has unused US tax losses available for offset against future profits.
At September 30 2012 a deferred tax asset of 1,367,000 2011: 2,201,000 has been recognised in relation to these losses.
The US losses can be carried forward for a period of 20 years from the date they arose.
The US losses have expiry dates between 2013 and 2029.
At the balance sheet date, the group no longer has unused UK tax losses available for offset against future profits.
At September302012 a deferred tax asset of nil 2011: 768,000 has been recognised in relation to these losses.
At the balance sheet date, a net deferred tax asset of 5,511,000 2011: 6,320,000 has been recognised in respect of US tax deductible goodwill amortisation, capitalised intangible assets and other short-term timing differences.
Included within capitalised goodwill and intangibles is a deferred tax asset of 2,808,000 2011: nil relating to tax deductible goodwill arising on acquisition option commitment for the minority share of Ned Davis Research, Inc. that was previously recognised within deferred tax on financial instruments.
The directors are of the opinion, that based on recent and forecast trading, it is probable that the level of profits in future years is sufficient to enable the above assets to be recovered.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 94,478,000 2011: 63,035,000 relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences at September 30 2012 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which these subsidiaries operate.
103 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23 Called up share capital 2012 2011 000 000 Allotted, called up and fully paid 124,349,531 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 2011: 121,247,380 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 311 303 During the year, 3,102,151 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 2011: 2,755,469 ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of 7,755 2011: 6,889 were issued as follows: 2,381,410 ordinary shares 2011: 2,226,089 under the companys 2009 scrip dividend alternative for a cash consideration of nil 2011: nil : and 720,741 ordinary shares 2011: 529,380 ordinary shares following the exercise of share options granted under the companys share option schemes for a cash consideration of 1,058,834 2011: 718,392.
24 Share-based payments The groups long-term incentive expense at September 30 comprised: 2012 2011 000 000 Equity-settled options SAYE 97 96 CAP 2004 1,809 CAP 2010 4,042 7,970 2,330 8,066 Cash-settled options CAP 2010 4,042 7,970 Internet Securities, Inc. 8 34 Structured Retail Products Limited 79 92 3,971 8,028 6,301 16,094 Long-term incentive expense 6,301 9,491 Additional accelerated long-term incentive expense 6,603 6,301 16,094 The total carrying value of cash-settled options at September 30 2012 included in the Statement of Financial Position is: 2012 2011 000 000 Current 7,768 Non-current 6,341 10,296 14,109 10,296 104 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 24 Share-based payments continued Equity-settled options The options set out below are outstanding at September 30 and are options to subscribe for new ordinary shares of 0.25p each in the company.
The total charge recognised in the year from equity-settled options was 2,330,000, 37% of the groups long-term incentive expense 2011: charge 8,066,000, 50%.
105 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
1 CAP 2004 options shown in the above tables relate only to those options that have vested see page 44 in the Directors Remuneration Report for further information on CAP 2004 options.
2 The allocation of the number of options granted under each tranche of the CAP 2010 and CSOP UK and CSOP Canada represents the directors best estimate.
The CAP 2010 award is reduced by the number of options vesting under the respective CSOP schemes see below and the Directors Remuneration Report for further details.
Options granted trued up relate to those that are likely to vest on February 14 2013 2011: February 10 2012 under the second and third tranche of the CAP 2004 following the achievement of the additional performance test.
The number of options granted is provisional and will primarily require a true up to reflect adjustments of the individual businesses profits during the period to December 31 2012 2011: December 31 2011 as required by the Remuneration Committee.
As such the actual number of options vested could vary from that disclosed.
Cash-settled options The group has liabilities in respect of three share option schemes that are classified by IFRS 2 Share-based payments as cash settled.
These consist of the cash element of the CAP 2010 scheme, options held by employees over new equity shares in Internet Securities Inc. a subsidiary of the group, and options held by employees over equity shares in Structured Retail Products Limited, a subsidiary of the group.
Of these schemes, options with an intrinsic value of 3,000 had vested but are not yet exercised 2011: 7,000.
106 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 24 Share-based payments continued Share Option Schemes Capital Appreciation Plan 2010 CAP 2010 The CAP 2010 executive share option scheme was approved by shareholders on January 21 2010.
Each CAP 2010 award comprises two equal elements an option to subscribe for ordinary shares of 0.25p each in the company at an exercise price of 0.25p per ordinary share, and a right to receive a cash payment.
The awards will vest in two equal tranches.
The first tranche of awards become exercisable on satisfaction of the primary performance condition, but no earlier than February 2013, and lapse to the extent unexercised by September 30 2020.
The second tranche of awards becomes exercisable in the February following a subsequent financial year in which adjusted pre-tax profits again equal or exceed 105 million increased from 100 million following the acquisition of NDR, but no earlier than February 2014.
The second tranche only vests on satisfaction of the primary performance condition and an additional performance condition.
The number of options received under the share award of the CAP 2010 is reduced by the number of options vesting with participants from the 2010 Company Share Option Plan.
The primary performance condition was achieved in financial year 2011, two years earlier than expected, when adjusted pre-tax profits were 101.3 million.
However, the internal rules of the plan prevent the awards vesting more than one year early, so although the primary condition has been achieved, the award pool will be allocated between the holders of outstanding awards by reference to their contribution to the growth in profits of the group from the 2009 base year to the profits achieved in financial year 2012 and these awards are to become exercisable in February 2013 see Directors Remuneration Report for further information.
Company Share Option Plan 2010 CSOP 2010 In parallel with the CAP 2010, the shareholders approved the CSOP 2010 UK and Canada at the AGM on January 21 2010.
The CSOP 2010 UK was approved by HM Revenue and Customs on June 21 2010 and options granted on June 28 2010.
The CSOP 2010 UK option enables each participant to purchase up to 4,972 shares in the company at a price of 6.03 per share, the market value at the date of grant.
The options will vest and become exercisable at the same time as the corresponding share award under the CAP 2010 providing the CSOP option is in the money at that time and does not vest before June 28 2013.
Once vested the CSOP option remains exercisable for one month.
If the CSOP option is not in the money at the time of vesting of the corresponding CAP 2010 share award it continues to subsist and becomes exercisable at the same time as the second tranche of the CAP 2010 share award.
The CSOP 2010 Canada, granted on March 30 2010, enables each participant to purchase up to 19,960 shares in the company at a price of 5.01 per share, the market value at the date of grant.
No option may vest after the date falling three months after the preliminary announcement of the results for the financial year ended September 30 2019, and the option shall lapse to the extent unvested at the time.
The CSOP has the same performance criteria as that of the CAP 2010 as set out above.
The number of CSOP 2010 awards that vest proportionally reduce the number of shares that vest under the CAP 2010 as the CSOP is effectively a delivery mechanism for part of the CAP 2010 award.
The CSOP 2010 option exercise price of 6.03 UK and 5.01 Canada will be satisfied by a funding award mechanism and results in the same net gain on the CSOP options calculated as the market price of the companys shares at the date of exercise less the exercise price, multiplied by the number of options exercised delivered in the equivalent number of shares to participants as if the award had been delivered using 0.25p CAP options.
Capital Appreciation Plan 2004 CAP 2004 The CAP 2004 executive share option scheme was approved by shareholders on February 1 2005.
Each of the CAP awards comprises an option to subscribe for ordinary shares of 0.25p each in the company for an exercise price of 0.25p per ordinary share.
The awards become exercisable on satisfaction of certain performance conditions and lapse to the extent unexercised on September 30 2014.
The initial performance condition was achieved in the financial year 2007 and the option pool a maximum of 7.5 million shares was allocated between the holders of outstanding awards.
One-third of the awards vested immediately.
The primary performance target was achieved again in 2008 and, after applying the additional performance condition, 2,241,269 options from the second tranche of options vested in February 2009.
The primary performance target was also achieved in 2009 and 1,527,152 options including a true-up adjustment of 5,654 for the third final tranche of options in 2009 vested in February 2010.
The additional performance condition was applied to profits for financial year 2010 and 2011 for those individual participants where the additional performance conditions for the second and final tranches had not previously been met and 303,321 and 244,152 options vested in February 2011 and February 2012 respectively.
For those individual participants businesses where the additional performance conditions for the second and final tranche have not been met, the vesting is deferred until the profits are at least 75% of that achieved in 2007 but no later than by reference to the year ending September 30 2012.
The directors estimate 54,599 of options will vest in February 2013 following satisfaction of this additional performance test.
Adjusted pre-tax profits is profit before tax excluding acquired intangible amortisation, CAP 2010 element of long-term incentive expense, exceptional items, profits from significant acquisitions, net movements in acquisition option commitments values, imputed interest on acquisition option commitments, foreign exchange loss interest charge on tax equalisation contracts and foreign exchange on restructured hedging arrangements as set out in the Income Statement, note 5, 6 and 8.
107 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 24 Share-based payments continued Share Option Schemes continued The company has six share option schemes for which an IFRS2 Share-based payments charge has been recognised.
Details of these schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 45.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are shown below.
SAYE Executive Options 11 12 13 January 28 December 11 December 21 December 20 2002 2009 2010 2011 Date of grant Market value at date of grant p 419 430 706 621 Option price p 419 344 565 497 Number of share options outstanding 52,000 44,567 25,497 148,488 Option life years 10.0 3.5 3.5 3.5 Expected term of option grant to exercise years 5.5 3.0 3.0 3.0 Exercise price p 419 344 565 497 Risk-free rate 4.10% 1.83% 1.63% 0.53% Dividend yield 3.93% 7.49% 5.28% 4.30% Volatility 30% 50% 38% 35% Fair value per option 0.72 1.21 1.82 1.54 The executive and Save as You Earn SAYE options were valued using the BlackScholes option-pricing model.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the groups share price over a period of 15 years.
The executive options fair values have been discounted at a rate of 10% to reflect their performance conditions.
The expected term of the option used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The charge recognised in the year in respect of these options was 97,000 2011: charge 96,000.
Internet Securities Inc. cash-settled CAP 2004 options Tranche 1 Tranche 2 Tranche 3 June 20 June 20 June 20 February 28 2005 2005 2005 2006 Date of grant Market value at date of grant p 401 401 401 n a Option price p 0.25 0.25 0.25 n a Number of share options outstanding 421 69,693 2,126 Option life years 10 10 10 10 Expected term of option grant to exercise years 3.28 4.53 5.53 4.50 Exercise price p 0.25 0.25 0.25 $13.10 Risk-free rate 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% Dividend growth 8.44% 8.44% 8.44% Fair value per option 3.28 3.02 2.82 $14.34 The CAP 2004 options were valued using a fair value model that adjusted the share price at the date of grant for the net present value of expected future dividend streams up to the date of expected exercise.
Under IFRS 2, Internet Securities, Inc. options are classified as cash-settled options.
As such, their related fair value equates to the fair value at the balance sheet date.
For both of these option schemes, the expected term of the option used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The long-term incentive recognised in the year for the CAP 2004 options was a credit of 1,809,000 2011: nil, and for Internet Securities, Inc. options was a charge of 8,000 2011: credit 34,000.
108 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 24 Share-based payments continued The Internet Securities, Inc. ISI options are over shares of ISI, a subsidiary entity.
The ISI options outstanding at September302012 had a weighted average exercise price of $13.10 2011: $12.43 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.41 2011: 4.23 years.
CAP 2010 CSOP 2010 Tranche 1 Tranche 2 UK Canada March 30 March 30 June 28 March 30 2010 2010 2010 2010 Date of grant Market value at date of grant p 501 501 603.34 501 Option price p 0.25 0.25 603.34 501 Number of share options outstanding 969,305 1,750,496 541,671 239,520 Option life years 10 10 9.38 10 Expected term of option grant to exercise years 4 5 3 3 Exercise price p 0.25 0.25 603.34 501.00 Risk-free rate 2.28% 2.75% 2.28% 2.28% Dividend growth 7.00% 7.00% 7.00% 7.00% Fair value per option 4.37 4.20 4.37 4.37 The CAP 2010 options were valued using a fair value model that adjusted the share price at the date of grant for the net present value of expected future dividend streams up to the date of expected exercise.
The expected term of the option used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The number of CSOP 2010 awards that vest proportionally reduce the number of shares that vest under the CAP 2010, the CSOP is effectively a delivery 1 mechanism for part of the CAP 2010 award.
The CSOP 2010 options have an exercise price of 6.03, which will be satisfied by a funding award 2 mechanism which results in the same net gain on these options delivered in the equivalent number of shares to participants as if the same award had been delivered using 0.25 pence CAP options.
The amount of the funding award will depend on the companys share price at the date of exercise.
Because of the above and the other direct links between the CSOP 2010 and the CAP 2010, including the identical performance criteria, IFRS 2 Share based payments combines the two plans and treats them as one plan vesting in two tranches.
The long-term incentive expense recognised in the year for the CSOP 2010 and CAP 2010 options including the charge in relation to the cash element was 8,084,000 2011:15,940,000.
1 Exercise price of Canadian CSOP is 5.01.
1 2 Net gain on the CSOP options is the market price of the companys shares at the date of exercise less the exercise price 6.03 multiplied by the number of options exercised.
Exercise price excludes the effect of the funding award.
109 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25 Acquisition option commitments The group is party to put options over the remaining non-controlling interest in subsidiaries.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments requires the group to recognise the discounted present value of the remaining put option commitment.
This discount is unwound as a notional interest charge to the Income Statement.
The group regularly performs a review of the underlying businesses with put option commitments to assess the impact on the fair value of the respective put option commitment.
Any resultant change in these fair values is reported as a finance income or expense in the Income Statement.
2012 2011 000 000 Acquisition option commitments at October 1 11,001 1,061 Additions from acquisitions during the year 9,451 Net movements during the year following review of underlying business note 8 2,940 358 Imputed interest note 8 977 181 Exercise of option commitments 831 50 Exchange differences 339 Acquisition option commitments at September 30 7,868 11,001 A net income of 1,963,000 2011: expense of 539,000 was recorded in finance income and finance expense note 8.
Maturity profile of acquisition option commitments: 2012 2011 000 000 Within one year 4,273 852 In more than one year 3,595 10,149 7,868 11,001 There is a deferred tax asset of nil 2011: 3,800,000 related to the put option commitment as at September 30 2012.
As explained in note 2, key judgemental areas in preparing the financial statements, the value of the put option commitments is subject to a number of assumptions.
The directors estimate that a possible range of outcomes for the fair value of the NDR put option commitments, based on possible changes in the assumptions, is as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 Estimated minimum Estimated capped maximum 37,552 39,183 The put option agreement over the sale of Internet Securities, Inc. ISI shares between the company and the non-controlling shareholders of ISI is based on the valuation of ISI as determined under a methodology provided by an independent financial adviser.
Following a sensitivity analysis of the fair value of the acquisition option commitments applying reasonable possible assumptions, a 10% change in expected profit, the liabilities at September 30 2012 range from 6,229,000 to 9,519,000 with the corresponding change to the value at September 30 2012 charged or credited to the Income Statement in future periods.
110 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 26 Operating lease commitments At September 30 the group had committed to make the following payments in respect of operating leases on land and buildings: 2012 2011 000 000 Within one year 6,728 7,317 Between two and five years 16,451 19,899 After five years 2,812 4,887 25,991 32,103 The groups operating leases do not include any significant leasing terms or conditions.
At September 30 the group had contracted with tenants to receive the following payments in respect of operating leases on land and buildings: 2012 2011 000 000 Within one year 1,320 903 Between two and five years 3,492 1,819 After five years 445 868 5,257 3,590 27 Retirement benefit schemes Defined contribution schemes The group operates the following defined contribution schemes: Euromoney PensionSaver, Euromoney Pension Plan, the Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan in the UK and the 401 k savings and investment plan in the US.
It also participates in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme which is operated by Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT but is accounted for in Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC as a defined contribution scheme.
In compliance with recent legislation the group is making arrangements for relevant employees to be automatically enrolled into defined contribution pension plans.
The staging date for the group for automatic enrolment is expected to be November 2013.
The pension charge in respect of defined contribution schemes for the year ended September 30 comprised: 2012 2011 000 000 Euromoney Pension Plan PensionSaver 1,094 965 Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan 24 28 Private schemes 1,077 1,035 Harmsworth Pension Scheme 112 148 2,307 2,176 111 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27 Retirement benefit schemes continued Euromoney PensionSaver and Euromoney Pension Plan Euromoney PensionSaver was launched on October 1 2008 to replace the Euromoney Pension Plan as the principal pension arrangement offered to employees of the group.
Under both plans, contributions are paid by the employer and employees.
However, Euromoney PensionSaver is a group personal pension arrangement rather than the trust-based arrangement used by the Euromoney Pension Plan.
Under both schemes, employees are able to contribute a minimum of 3% of salary with an equal company contribution in the first three years of employment and thereafter at twice the employee contribution rate, up to a maximum employer contribution of 10% of salary.
The Euromoney Pension Plan is a part of the DMGT Pension Trust, an umbrella trust under which DMGT UK trust-based defined contribution plans are held.
Insured death benefits previously held under this trust have been transferred to a new trust-based arrangement specifically for life assurance purposes.
When the process of transferring out the remaining assets of the Euromoney Pension Plan has been completed the Plan will be wound up.
Assets of both plans are invested in funds selected by members and held independently from the companys finances.
The investment and administration of both plans is undertaken by Fidelity Pension Management.
Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan The Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan is a defined contribution arrangement under which contributions are paid by the employer and employees.
The scheme is closed to new members.
The plans assets are invested under trust in funds selected by members and held independently from the companys finances.
The investment and administration of the plan is undertaken by Skandia Life Group.
Private schemes Institutional Investor, Inc. contributes to a 401 k savings and investment plan for its employees which is administered by an independent investment provider.
Employees are able to contribute up to 15% of salary with the company matching up to 50% of the employee contributions, up to 5% of salary.
The company also provides access to a stakeholder pension plan for relevant employees who are not eligible for other pension schemes operated by the group.
These arrangements will be superseded when automatic enrolment begins in 2013.
Harmsworth Pension Scheme The Harmsworth Pension Scheme is a defined benefit scheme operated by DMGT.
The scheme is closed to new entrants.
Existing members still in employment can continue to accrue benefits in the scheme on a cash basis, with members using this cash account to purchase an annuity at retirement.
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out triennially by the Scheme Actuary.
The latest valuation was completed as at March 31 2010.
As a result of this valuation, DMGT agreed to make annual contributions of 10% or 15% of members basic pay depending on membership section.
In addition, DMGT has agreed a Recovery Plan involving a series of annual funding payments amounting to 231.4 million over a period to end on October 5 2023.
In accordance with this agreement, a payment of 24.8 million was made on October 5 2011 and a payment of 21.0 million was made on September 28 2012.
A further payment of 3.0 million was made post year end on October 5 2012.
Both the ongoing contributions and Recovery Plan will be reviewed at the next triennial funding valuation of the main schemes due to be completed with an effective date March 31 2013.
DMGT has enabled the trustee of the scheme to acquire a beneficial interest in a Limited Partnership investment vehicle LP.
The LP has been designed to facilitate payment of part of the deficit funding payments described above to the scheme over the next 15 years.
In addition, the LP is required to make a final payment to the principal scheme of 150 million or such lesser amount as may equate to the funding deficit within the scheme on an ongoing actuarial valuation basis at the end of the 15 year period.
For funding purposes, the interest held by the trustee in the LP will be treated as an asset of the scheme and reduce the actuarial deficit within the scheme.
However, under IAS 19 the LP is not included as an asset of the scheme and therefore is not included in the disclosures below.
In exchange for its interest in the LP, the trustee has allowed the letters of credit previously provided by DMGT to be cancelled.
112 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 27 Retirement benefit schemes continued The group is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme.
The scheme is operated on an aggregate basis with no segregation of the assets to individual participating employers and, therefore, the same contribution rate is charged to all participating employers i. e. the contribution rate charged to each employer is affected by the experience of the schemes as a whole.
The scheme is therefore accounted for as a defined contribution scheme by the company.
This means that the pension charge reported in these financial statements is the same as the cash contributions due in the period.
The groups pension charge for the Harmsworth Pension Scheme for the year ended September 30 2012 was 112,000 2011: 148,000.
DMGT is required to account for the Harmsworth Pension Scheme under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The IAS 19 disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts of DMGT have been based on the formal valuation of the scheme as at March 31 2010, and adjusted to September 30 2012 taking account of membership data at that date.
The calculations are adjusted to allow for the assumptions and actuarial methodology required by IAS 19.
These showed that the market value of the schemes assets was 1,481.2 million 2011: 1,333.6 million and that the actuarial value of these assets represented 84.6% 2011: 83.0% of the benefits that had accrued to members also calculated in accordance with IAS 19.
Defined benefit scheme Metal Bulletin Pension Scheme The company operates the Metal Bulletin plc Pension Scheme MBPS, a defined benefit scheme which is closed to new entrants.
A full actuarial valuation of the defined benefit scheme is carried out triennially by the Scheme Actuary.
The latest valuation of the MBPS was completed as at June 1 2010.
As a result of the valuation, the company agreed to make annual contributions of 22.3% per annum of pensionable salaries, plus 42,400 per month to the scheme.
The contributions will be reviewed at the next triennial funding valuation of the scheme due to be completed with an effective date June 1 2013.
The figures in this note are based on calculations carried out in connection with the actuarial valuation of the scheme as at June 1 2010 adjusted to September 30 2012 by the actuary.
The key financial assumptions adopted were as follows: 2012 2011 Long-term assumed rate of: Pensionable salary increases 2.5% p. a.
Pension escalation in payment pre-January 1997 members 5.0% p. a.
Pension escalation in payment pensions earned from May 30 2002 to June 30 2006 post January 1997 members 2.8% p. a.
Pension escalation in payment pensions earned from June 30 2006 post January 1997 members 2.5% p. a.
Discount rate for accrued liabilities 4.1% p. a.
Pension increase in deferment 2.8% p. a.
113 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27 Retirement benefit schemes continued The discount rate for scheme liabilities reflects yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.
All assumptions were selected after taking actuarial advice.
The demographic assumptions adopted were as follows: Pre-retirement mortality rates The following mortality rates represent the probability of a person dying within one year.
Males Females Age 30 0.03% 0.02% 40 0.05% 0.04% 50 0.14% 0.10% 60 0.44% 0.28% 2012 2011 Assumed life expectancy in years, on retirement at 62 Retiring at the end of the reporting period: Males 25.8 25.7 Females 28.0 27.9 Retiring 20 years after the end of the reporting period: Males 28.0 27.9 Females 29.2 29.2 The fair value of the assets held by the MBPS and the long-term expected rate of return on each class of assets are shown in the following table: With profits Equities Bonds policy Cash Total 2012 Value at September 30 2012 000 6,539 15,725 2,567 2,188 27,019 % of assets held 24.2% 58.2% 9.5% 8.1% 100.0% Long-term rate of return expected at September 30 2012 8.00% 3.50% 5.00% 1.50% With profits Equities Bonds policy Cash Total 2011 Value at September 30 2011 000 7,416 12,390 2,572 1,983 24,361 % of assets held 30.4% 50.9% 10.6% 8.1% 100.0% Long-term rate of return expected at September 30 2011 8.00% 5.00% 5.75% 3.50% 114 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 27 Retirement benefit schemes continued A reconciliation of the net pension deficit reported in the Statement of Financial Position is shown in the following table: 2012 2011 000 000 Present value of defined benefit obligation 31,776 26,260 Assets at fair value 27,019 24,361 Deficit reported in the Statement of Financial Position 4,757 1,899 The deficit for the year excludes a related deferred tax asset of 626,000 2011: asset 475,000.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 Present value of obligation at October 1 26,260 25,811 Service cost 58 75 Interest cost 1,314 1,290 Benefits paid 579 589 Members contributions 12 13 Actuarial movement 4,711 340 Present value of obligation at September 30 31,776 26,260 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 Fair value of plan assets at October 1 24,361 24,274 Expected return on plan assets 1,329 1,451 Contributions: Employer 583 584 Members 12 13 Annuity surplus refund 25 23 Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 1,288 1,395 Benefits paid 579 589 Fair value of plan assets at September 30 27,019 24,361 115 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27 Retirement benefit schemes continued The actual return on plan assets was a gain of 2,617,000 2011: gain 56,000 representing the expected return plus the associated actuarial gain or loss during the year.
The amounts charged to the Income Statement based on the above assumptions are as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 Current service costs charged to administrative costs 58 75 Interest cost note 8 1,314 1,290 Expected return on plan assets note 8 1,329 1,451 Total charge income recognised in Income Statement 43 86 Pension costs and the size of any pension surplus or deficit are sensitive to the assumptions adopted.
The table below indicates the effect of changes in the principal assumptions used above.
2012 2011 000 000 Mortality Change in pension obligation at September 30 from a one year change in life expectancy 943 689 Change in pension cost from a one year change 40 35 Salary Increases Change in pension obligation at September 30 from a 0.25% change 38 30 Change in pension cost from a 0.25% year change 4 3 Discount Rate Change in pension obligation at September 30 from a 0.1% change 630 495 Change in pension cost from a 0.1% change 3 1 Inflation Change in pension obligation at September 30 from a 0.1% change 182 147 Change in pension cost from a 0.1% change 7 7 Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income SOCI are shown in the following table: 2012 2011 000 000 Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 1,288 1,395 Return of surplus annuity payments 25 23 Experience adjustments on liabilities 178 827 Losses arising from changes in assumptions 4,533 487 Total losses recognised in SOCI 3,398 1,032 Cumulative actuarial gain recognised in SOCI at beginning of year 415 617 Cumulative actuarial gain recognised in SOCI at end of year 3,813 415 116 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 27 Retirement benefit schemes continued History of experience gains and losses: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 000 000 000 000 000 Present value of defined benefit obligation 31,776 26,260 25,811 21,916 16,985 Fair value of scheme assets 27,019 24,361 24,274 21,552 19,512 Deficit surplus in scheme 4,757 1,899 1,537 364 2,527 Experience adjustments on defined benefit obligation 178 827 14 18 36 Percentage of present value of defined benefit obligation 0.6% 3.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.2% Experience adjustments on fair value of scheme assets 1,288 1,395 1,363 760 1,717 Percentage of the fair value of the scheme assets 4.8% 5.7% 5.6% 3.5% 4.0% The group expects to contribute approximately 509,000 2011: expected contribution in 2012 of 509,000 to the MBPS during the 2013 financial year.
28 Contingent liabilities Claims in Malaysia Four writs claiming damages for libel were issued in Malaysia against the company and three of its employees in respect of an article published in one of the companys magazines, International Commercial Litigation, in November 1995.
The writs were served on the company on October 22 1996.
Two of these writs have been discontinued.
The total outstanding amount claimed on the two remaining writs is Malaysian ringgits 82.3 million 16,669,000.
No provision has been made for these claims in these financial statements as the directors do not believe the company has any material liability in respect of these writs.
29 Related party transactions The group has taken advantage of the exemption allowed under IAS 24 Related party disclosures not to disclose transactions and balances between group companies that have been eliminated on consolidation.
Other related party transactions and balances are detailed below: i The group had borrowings under a US$300 million multi-currency facility with DMGRH Finance Limited, a Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT group company as follows: 2012 2012 2011 2011 US$000 000 US$000 000 Amounts owing under US$ facility at September 30 62,381 38,631 171,450 110,059 Amounts owing under GBP facility at September 30 4,523 20,000 43,154 130,059 Commitment fee on unused portion of the available facility for year 618 721 117 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29 Related party transactions continued ii During the year the group expensed services provided by DMGT, the groups parent, and other fellow group companies, as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 Services expensed 444 406 iii At September 30, the group had xed rate interest rate swaps outstanding with Daily Mail and General Holdings Limited DMGH, a fellow group company, as follows: 2012 2012 2011 2011 US$000 000 US$000 000 Interest rates between 2.5% and 5.4% and termination dates between March 28 2013 and March 31 2014 on US$ fixed rate interest rate swaps 40,000 24,771 95,000 60,983 Interest rate of 2.6% and termination date of March 28 2013 2011: between September 30 2012 and March 28 2013 GBP fixed rate interest rate swaps 5,000 20,000 During the year the group paid interest to DMGH and related companies in respect of interest rate swaps as follows: 2012 2012 2011 2011 US$000 000 US$000 000 US$ interest paid 2,353 1,488 4,475 2,784 GBP interest paid 504 974 iv In January 2011, the group granted an Indian Rupee 112 million loan facility to RMSI Private Limited, a DMGT group company, at a 10.5% xed interest rate.
The loan was repaid to the group on November 21 2011.
2012 2012 2011 2011 INR 000 000 INR 000 000 Amounts owed under the facility at September 30 120,265 1,576 Interest income during the year 1,476 18 8,264 111 In February 2011, Euromoney Holdings US Inc, a group company, was granted a US$70 million short-term loan facility from DMGH.
The loan was repaid on February 17 2011.
There were no amounts outstanding at September 30 2012.
2012 2012 2011 2011 US$000 000 US$000 000 Amounts received 70,000 43,750 Amounts paid 70,041 43,776 Interest expense 41 26 118 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 29 Related party transactions continued v In February 2011, the company provided a US$70 million short-term loan facility to DMGH.
2012 2012 2011 2011 US$000 000 US$000 000 Amounts paid 70,000 43,750 Amounts received 70,041 43,776 Interest expense 41 26 vi During the year DMGT group companies surrendered tax losses to Euromoney Consortium Limited under an agreement between the two groups.
These tax losses are relievable against UK taxable profits of the group under HMRCs consortium relief rules.
2012 2011 000 000 Amounts payable 2,584 831 Tax losses with tax value 3,445 1,109 Amounts owed to DMGT Group at September 30 831 vii During the year DMGT group companies surrendered tax losses to Euromoney Consortium 2 Limited under an agreement between the two groups.
2012 2011 000 000 Amounts payable 631 232 Tax losses with tax value 841 309 Amounts owed to DMGT Group at September 30 232 viii There is an annual put option agreement over the sale of Internet Securities, Inc. ISI shares between the company and the minority shareholders of ISI.
In February 2012, under this put option mechanism, the group purchased 1.12% of the equity share capital of ISI for a cash consideration of US$1,326,000 840,000.
The groups equity shareholding in ISI increased to 99.92%.
ix NF Osborn serves on the management board of A&N International Media Limited and both DMG Events and dmgi, fellow group companies, for which he received fees for the year to September 30 2012 of 25,000 and US$45,000 respectively 2011: 25,000 and US$40,000 respectively.
x PM Fallon served as a director on the executive board of DMGT, the groups parent.
During the year he earned non-executive director fees of 24,500 2011: 19,500 and received short-term employee benets of 8,749 2011: 6,907.
PM Fallon died on October 14 2012. xi During the year the group received a dividend of 291,000 2011: 656,000 from Capital Net Limited, an associate of the group.
119 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29 Related party transactions continued xii The compensation paid or payable for key management is set out below.
Key management includes the executive and non-executive directors as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report and other key divisional directors who are not on the board.
Key management compensation 2012 2011 000 000 Salaries and short-term employee benefits 18,726 17,517 Non-executive directors fees 181 197 Post-employment benefits 137 159 Other long-term benefits all share-based 1,272 2,644 20,316 20,517 Of which: Executive directors 16,458 15,966 Non-executive directors 181 197 Divisional directors 3,677 4,354 20,316 20,517 Details of the remuneration of directors is given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
30 Events after the balance sheet date The directors propose a final dividend of 14.75p per share 2011: 12.50p totalling 18,342,000 2011: 15,156,000 for the year ended September302012.
The dividend will be submitted for formal approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on January 31 2013.
In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date, these financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable but will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ending September302013.
During 2012, a final dividend of 12.50p 2011: 11.75p per share totalling 15,162,000 2011: 13,928,000 was paid in respect of the dividend declared for the year ended September 30 2011.
There were no other events after the balance sheet date.
31 Ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party The directors regard the ultimate parent undertaking as Rothermere Continuation Limited, which is incorporated in Bermuda.
The ultimate controlling party is The Viscount Rothermere.
The largest and smallest group of which the company is a member and for which group accounts are drawn up is that of Daily Mail and General Trust plc, incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
Copies of its report and accounts are available from: The Company Secretary Daily Mail and General Trust plc Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street London W8 5TT www.
