Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Independent Auditors Company Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Euromoney Opinion on financial statements Institutional Investor PLC for the year ended September 30 2012 which In our opinion the parent company financial statements: comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 17.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United September 30 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our Companies Act 2006. audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we 2006 do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company In our opinion: and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair parent company financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Matters on which we are required to report by exception International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: for Auditors.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Scope of the audit of the financial statements company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures from branches not visited by us: or in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the the parent company financial statements and the part of the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting with the accounting records and returns: or policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness not made: or of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall we have not received all the information and explanations we require presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the for our audit.
financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we Other matter become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies We have reported separately on the group financial statements of we consider the implications for our report.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC for the year ended September 30 2012.
Robert Matthews Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom November 14 2012 121 Independent Auditors Company Report Company Accounts Company Accounts Gr Group Accounts oup Accounts Our Gover Our Governance finance Our Performance Our Performance
