Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements year ended 31 December 2012 1.
Corporate information These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of EVRAZ plc on 10April 2013.
EVRAZ plc EVRAZ plc or the Company was incorporated on 23 September 2011 as apublic company under the laws of the United Kingdom with the registered number 7784342.
The Companys registered office is at 5th Floor, 6 St. Andrew Street, London, EC4A 3AE, United Kingdom.
As a result of the reorganisation implemented by way of the share exchange offer made by the Company for the shares of Evraz Group S. A. in November 2011 Note 20, theCompany became a new parent entity of Evraz Group S. A. Luxembourg, a holding company which owns steel production, mining and trading companies.
The Company, together with its subsidiaries the Group, is involved in the production and distribution of steel and related products and coal and iron ore mining.
In addition, the Group produces vanadium products.
The Group is one of the largest steel producers globally.
Lanebrook Limited Cyprus is the ultimate controlling party of the Group.
The major subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group were as follows at 31 December: Effective ownership interest, % Business Subsidiary 2012 2011 2010 activity Location EVRAZ Nizhny Tagil Iron & Steel Plant 100.00 100.00 100.00 Steel production Russia EVRAZ United West-Siberian Iron & Steel Plant 100.00 100.00 100.00 Steel production Russia Novokuznetsk Iron & Steel Plant in 2011 merged with West-Siberian Iron & Steel Plant 100.00 Steel production Russia EVRAZ Vitkovice Steel a. s. 100.00 100.00 100.00 Steel production Czech Republic EVRAZ Highveld Steel and Vanadium Limited 85.12 85.12 85.12 Steel production South Africa EVRAZ Dnepropetrovsk Iron and Steel Works 96.78 96.77 96.04 Steel production Ukraine EVRAZ Inc. NA 100.00 100.00 100.00 Steel mill USA EVRAZ Inc. NA Canada 100.00 100.00 100.00 Steel mill Canada Yuzhkuzbassugol 100.00 100.00 100.00 Coal mining Russia EVRAZ Kachkanarsky  Ore mining and Integrated Works 100.00 100.00 100.00 processing Russia Evrazruda 100.00 100.00 100.00 Ore mining Russia EVRAZ Sukha Balka 99.42 99.42 99.42 Ore mining Ukraine Going concern These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Groups activities in all of its operating segments continue to be affected by theuncertainty and instability of the current economic environment.
According to managements current forecasts, at 30 June 2013 theGroup may not be in compliance with financial covenants under certain bank loans, which, if not resolved, may trigger a cross default under other debt instruments.
Such an event would permit the Groups lenders to demand immediate payment of theoutstanding borrowings under the relevant debt instruments.
Directors andmanagement have considered a number of alternatives to proactively address this situation, including, if and when necessary, a refinancing of certain borrowings, afinancial covenant reset and a waiver from its lenders.
The Group may incur additional costs related to these alternatives.
Based on the analysis of available alternatives, managements track record of resolving similar matters and the probabilities of their successful implementation, Directors and management concluded that there is no material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Consequently, Directors and management have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
2. significant accounting policies Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
International Financial Reporting Standards are issued by the International Accounting Standard Board IASB.
IFRSs that are mandatory for application as of 31 December 2012, but not adopted by theEuropean Union, do not have any impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as the Directors believe there are no material uncertainties that lead to significant doubt that the entity can continue as a going concern in the foreseeable future.
110 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 2. significant accounting policies continued Basis of Preparation Continued The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as disclosed in the accounting policies below.
Exceptions include, but are not limited to, property, plant and equipment at the date of transition to IFRS accounted for at deemed cost, available-for-sale investments measured at fair value, assets classified as held for sale measured at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell and post-employment benefits measured at present value.
Group reorganisation in 2011 As the Group has been formed through a reorganisation in which EVRAZ plc became a new parent entity of the Group Note 20, these consolidated financial statements have been prepared as a continuation of the existing group using the pooling of interests method.
Changes in accounting policies In the preparation of these consolidated financial statements, the Group followed the same accounting policies and methods of computation as compared with those applied in theprevious year, except for the adoption of new standards and interpretations and revision of the existing standards as of 1 January 2012.
New Revised standards and interpretations adopted in 2012 r IFRS 7 Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets Amendment The amendment to IFRS 7 enhances disclosures for financial assets.
These disclosures relate to assets transferred as defined under IAS 39.
If the assets transferred are not derecognised entirely in the financial statements, an entity has to disclose information that enables users of financial statements to understand the relationship between those assets which are not derecognised and their associated liabilities.
If those assets are derecognised entirely, but the entity retains a continuing involvement, disclosures have to be provided that enable users of financial statements to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, the entitys continuing involvement in those derecognised assets.
The amendment had no effect on the Groups financial statements.
r IAS 12 Income Taxes Amendment Deferred Taxes: Recovery of Underlying Assets The amendment clarified the determination of deferred tax on investment property measured at fair value and introduces a rebuttable presumption that deferred tax on investment property measured using the fair value model in IAS 40 should be determined on the basis that its carrying amount will be recovered through sale.
It includes the requirement that deferred tax on non-depreciable assets that are measured using the revaluation model in IAS 16 should always be measured on a sale basis.
The amendment had no effect on the Groups financial position, performance or its disclosures.
Standards Issued But Not Yet Effective in the European Union Effective for annual periods beginning Standards not yet effective for the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 on or after r Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Changes to thePresentation of Other Comprehensive Income 1 July 2012 r IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 r Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits 1 January 2013 r Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2013 r IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine 1 January 2013 r Amendments to standards following the May 2012 improvements to IFRS project 1 January 2013 r IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014 r IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2014 r IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2014 r IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2014 r IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2014 r Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014 r IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2015 The Group expects that the adoption of the pronouncements listed above will not have a significant impact on the Groups results of operations and financial position in the period of initial application.
Amended IAS 19 Employee Benefits introduced recognition of actuarial gains and losses in other comprehensive income in the period they occur.
This amendment is required to be applied retrospectively.
At 31 December 2012 and 2011, the Group had $332 million and $261 million actuarial losses, respectively Note 23, they will increase the Groups liabilities under defined benefit plans.
significant accounting judgements and estimates Accounting judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management has made the following judgements, apart from those involving estimates, which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements: r The Group determined that it obtained control over Corber on 16January 2013 Note11.
As of 31 December 2012, certain conditions relating to acquisition of an additional 50% ownership interest in Corber were not met.
As such, the Group did not consolidate Corber in 2012. r The Group determined that the future sale of EVRAZ Highveld Steel and Vanadium Limited and EVRAZ Vitkovice Steel does not constitute a discontinued operation as the expected disposal will not lead to the Group abandoning any geographical area of operation or any product line Note 12.
Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2. significant accounting policies continued significant accounting judgements and estimates continued Estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the assets.
In 2012, 2011 and 2010, theGroup recognised an impairment loss of $404 million, $105 million and $109 million, respectively Note 9.
The determination of impairments of property, plant and equipment involves the use of estimates that include, but are not limited to, the cause, timing and amount of the impairment.
Impairment is based on a large number of factors, such as changes in current competitive conditions, expectations of growth in the industry, increased cost of capital, changes in the future availability of financing, technological obsolescence, discontinuance of service, current replacement costs and other changes in circumstances that indicate that impairment exists.
The determination of the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit involves the use of estimates by management.
Methods used to determine the value in use include discounted cash flow-based methods, which require the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
These estimates, including the methodologies used, may have a material impact on the value in use and, ultimately, the amount of any impairment.
Useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment The Group assesses the remaining useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment at least at each financial year end and, if expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes are accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
These estimates may have a material impact on the amount of the carrying values of property, plant and equipment and on depreciation expense for the period.
In 2012 and 2010, the change in estimates of useful lives of property, plant and equipment resulted in an additional depreciation expense of approximately $5 million and $10million, respectively.
In 2011, the Group changed its estimation of useful lives of property, plant and equipment, which resulted in a $16 million decrease in depreciation expense as compared to the amounts that would have been charged had no change in estimate occurred.
Fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations The Group is required to recognise separately, at the acquisition date, the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired or assumed in a business combination at their fair values, which involves estimates.
Such estimates are based on valuation techniques which require considerable judgement in forecasting future cash flows and developing other assumptions.
Impairment of goodwill The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cashgenerating units to which thegoodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
Thecarrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $2,180million, $2,180million and $2,219million, respectively.
In 2012, 2011 and 2010, theGroup recognised an impairment loss in respect of goodwill in theamount of $Nil, $Nil and $16million, respectively.
More details of the assumptions used in estimating the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated are provided in Note 5.
Mineral reserves Mineral reserves are a material factor in the Groups computation of a depletion charge.
The Group estimates its mineral reserves in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves JORC Code.
Estimation of reserves in accordance with the JORC Code involves some degree of uncertainty.
The uncertainty depends mainly on the amount of reliable geological and engineering data available at the time of the estimate and the interpretation of this data, which also requires use of subjective judgement and development of assumptions.
Site restoration provisions The Group reviews site restoration provisions at each reporting date and adjusts them to reflect the current best estimate in accordance with IFRIC 1 Changes in Existing Decommissioning, Restoration and Similar Liabilities.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the expenditures required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period based on the requirements of the current legislation of thecountry where the respective operating assets are located.
Thecarrying amount of a provision is the present value of the expected expenditures, i. e. cash outflows discounted using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
112 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 2. significant accounting policies continued significant accounting judgements and estimates continued Estimation uncertainty continued Site restoration provisions continued The risks and uncertainties that inevitably surround many events and circumstances are taken into account in reaching thebest estimate of a provision.
Considerable judgement is required in forecasting future site restoration costs.
Future events that may affect the amount required to settle an obligation are reflected in theamount of a provision when there is sufficient objective evidence that they will occur.
Post-Employment benets The Group uses an actuarial valuation method for the measurement of the present value of post-employment benefit obligations and related current service cost.
This involves the use of demographic assumptions about the future characteristics of the current and former employees who are eligible for benefits mortality, both during and after employment, rates of employee turnover, disability and early retirement, etc.
as well as financial assumptions discount rate, future salary and benefit levels, expected rate of return on plan assets, etc.. Allowances The Group makes allowances for doubtful receivables to account for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments.
When evaluating the adequacy of an allowance for doubtful accounts, management bases its estimates on the current overall economic conditions, the ageing of accounts receivable balances, historical write-off experience, customer creditworthiness and changes in payment terms.
Changes in the economy, industry or specific customer conditions may require adjustments to theallowance for doubtful accounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements.
Asof 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010, allowances for doubtful accounts in respect of trade and other receivables have been made in theamount of $101 million, $108 million and $117 million, respectively Note 29.
The Group makes an allowance for obsolete and slow-moving raw materials and spare parts.
Inaddition, certain finished goods of the Group are carried at net realisable value Note 14.
Estimates of net realisable value of finished goods are based on the most reliable evidence available at the time the estimates are made.
These estimates take into consideration fluctuations of price or cost directly relating to events occurring subsequent to the end of the reporting period to the extent that such events confirm conditions existing at the end of the period.
Litigations The Group exercises judgement in measuring and recognising provisions and the exposure to contingent liabilities related to pending litigations or other outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation, arbitration or government regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities.
Judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the final settlement.
Because of the inherent uncertainties in this evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the originally estimated provision.
These estimates are subject to change as new information becomes available, primarily with the support of internal specialists or with the support of outside consultants.
Revisions to the estimates may significantly affect future operating results.
More details are provided in Note31.
Current taxes Russian and Ukrainian tax, currency and customs legislation is subject to varying interpretations and changes occur frequently.
Further, the interpretation of tax legislation by tax authorities as applied to the transactions and activity of the Groups entities may not coincide with that of management.
As a result, tax authorities may challenge transactions and the Groups entities may be assessed for additional taxes, penalties and interest, which can be significant.
In Russia and Ukraine the periods remain open to review by the tax and customs authorities with respect to tax liabilities for three calendar years preceding the year of review.
Under certain circumstances reviews may cover longer periods.
More details are provided in Note 31.
Deferred income tax assets Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
The estimation of that probability includes judgements based on the expected performance.
Various factors are considered to assess the probability of thefuture utilisation of deferred tax assets, including past operating results, operational plans, expiration of tax losses carried forward, and tax planning strategies.
Ifactual results differ from these estimates or if these estimates must be adjusted in future periods, thefinancial position, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected.
Inthe event that the assessment of future utilisation of deferred tax assets must be reduced, this reduction will be recognised in the statement of operations.
Foreign currency transactions The presentation currency of the Group is the US dollar because presentation in USdollars is convenient for the major current and potential users of the consolidated financial statements.
The functional currencies of the Groups subsidiaries are theRussian rouble, US dollar, euro, Czech koruna, South African rand, Canadian dollar and Ukrainian hryvnia.
As at thereporting date, the assets and liabilities of the subsidiaries with functional currencies other than the US dollar are translated into the presentation currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the end of the reporting period, and their statements of operations are translated at the exchange rates that approximate the exchange rates at the dates of thetransactions.
Theexchange differences arising on the translation are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a subsidiary with functional currency other than the US dollar, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular subsidiary is recognised in the statement of operations.
Transactions in foreign currencies in each subsidiary of the Group are initially recorded in the functional currency at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at theend of the reporting period.
All resulting differences are taken to the statement of operations.
Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2. significant accounting policies continued Foreign currency transactions continued Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries, which are those entities in which the Group has an interest of more than 50% of the voting rights, or otherwise has power to exercise control over their operations, are consolidated.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are no longer consolidated from the date that control ceases.
All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated: unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Where necessary, accounting policies for subsidiaries have been changed to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Non-controlling interest is the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to a parent.
Non-controlling interests are presented in theconsolidated statement of financial position within equity, separately from theparents shareholders equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to the owners of the parent and to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Acquisition of subsidiaries Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of theacquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
The initial accounting for a business combination involves identifying and determining the fair values to be assigned to the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the cost of the combination.
If the initial accounting for a business combination can be determined only provisionally by the end of the period in which thecombination is effected because either the fair values to be assigned to the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities or contingent liabilities or the cost of thecombination can be determined only provisionally, the Group accounts for thecombination using those provisional values.
The Group recognises any adjustments to those provisional values as a result of completing the initial accounting within twelve months of the acquisition date.
Comparative information presented for the periods before the completion of initial accounting for the acquisition is presented as if the initial accounting had been completed from the acquisition date.
Increases in ownership interests in subsidiaries The differences between the carrying values of net assets attributable to interests in subsidiaries acquired and the consideration given for such increases is either added to additional paid-in capital, if positive, or charged to accumulated profits, if negative, in theconsolidated financial statements.
Purchases of controlling interests in subsidiaries from entities under common control Purchases of controlling interests in subsidiaries from entities under common control are accounted for using the pooling of interests method.
The assets and liabilities of the subsidiary transferred under common control are recorded in these financial statements at the historical cost of the controlling entity thePredecessor.
Related goodwill inherent in the Predecessors original acquisition is also recorded in the financial statements.
Any difference between the total book value of net assets, including the Predecessors goodwill, and the consideration paid is accounted for in the consolidated financial statements as an adjustment to the shareholders equity.
These financial statements, including corresponding figures, are presented as if asubsidiary had been acquired by the Group on the date it was originally acquired by thePredecessor.
Put options over non-controlling interests The Group derecognises non-controlling interests if non-controlling shareholders have a put option over their holdings.
The difference between the amount of the liability recognised in the statement of financial position over the carrying value of thederecognised non-controlling interests is charged to accumulated profits.
114 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 2. significant accounting policies continued Investments in Associates Associates are entities in which the Group generally has between 20% and 50% of thevoting rights, or is otherwise able to exercise significant influence, but which it does not control or jointly control.
Investments in associates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost including goodwill.
Subsequent changes in the carrying value reflect the post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate and goodwill impairment charges, if any.
The Groups share of its associates profits or losses is recognised in the statement of operations and its share of movements in reserves is recognised in equity.
However, when the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless the Group has legal or constructive obligations to make payments to, or on behalf of, theassociate.
If the associate subsequently reports profits, the Group resumes recognising its share of those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share of losses not recognised.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to theextent of the Groups interest in the associates: unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Interests in joint ventures The Groups interest in its joint ventures is accounted for under the equity method of accounting whereby an interest in jointly controlled entities is initially recorded at cost and adjusted thereafter for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of joint ventures.
The statement of operations reflects the Groups share of the results of operations of joint ventures.
Property, plant and equipment The Groups property, plant and equipment is stated at purchase or construction cost, excluding the costs of day-to-day servicing, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of plant and equipment when that cost is incurred and recognition criteria are met.
The Groups property, plant and equipment include mining assets, which consist of mineral reserves, mine development and construction costs and capitalised site restoration costs.
Mineral reserves represent tangible assets acquired in business combinations.
Mine development and construction costs represent expenditures incurred in developing access to mineral reserves and preparations for commercial production, including sinking shafts and underground drifts, roads, infrastructure, buildings, machinery and equipment.
At each end of the reporting period management makes an assessment to determine whether there is any indication of impairment of property, plant and equipment.
If any such indication exists, management estimates the recoverable amount, which is the higher of an assets fair value less cost to sell and its value in use.
The carrying amount is reduced to the recoverable amount, and the difference is recognised as impairment loss in thestatement of operations or other comprehensive income.
An impairment loss recognised for an asset in previous years is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment, except for mining assets, is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment and methods of their depreciation are reviewed, and adjusted as appropriate, at each fiscal year end.
Thetable below presents the useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment.
Weighted average remaining Useful lives useful life years years Buildings and constructions 1560 19 Machinery and equipment 445 11 Transport and motor vehicles 720 10 Other assets 315 6 The Group determines the depreciation charge separately for each significant part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Depletion of mining assets including capitalised site restoration costs is calculated using the units-of-production method based upon proved and probable mineral reserves.
Maintenance costs relating to items of property, plant and equipment are expensed as incurred.
Major renewals and improvements are capitalised, and the replaced assets are derecognised.
The Group has the title to certain non-production and social assets, primarily buildings and facilities of social infrastructure, which are carried at their recoverable amount of zero.
Thecosts to maintain such assets are expensed as incurred.
Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 115 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2. significant accounting policies continued Exploration and evaluation expenditures Exploration and evaluation expenditures represent costs incurred by the Group in connection with the exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources before the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource are demonstrable.
The expenditures include acquisition of rights to explore, topographical, geological, geochemical and geophysical studies, exploratory drilling, trenching, sampling, activities in relation to evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting mineral resources.
These costs are expensed as incurred.
When the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource are demonstrable, the Group commences recognition of expenditures related to the development of mineral resources as assets.
These assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount of an asset may exceed its recoverable amount.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on thesubstance of the arrangement at inception date as to whether the fulfilment of thearrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised from the commencement of thelease term at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of theminimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on theremaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to interest expense.
The depreciation policy for depreciable leased assets is consistent with that for depreciable assets which are owned.
If there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is fully depreciated over the shorter of thelease term or its useful life.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of theasset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as anexpense in the statement of operations on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred for an acquisition of a subsidiary or an associte and the amount recognised for non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the acquiree, the difference is recognised in the consolidated statement of operations.
Goodwill on acquisition of a subsidiary is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisition of an associate is included in the carrying amount of the investments in associates.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently, if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit, or the group of cash-generating units, to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative fair values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cashgenerating unit retained.
Intangible assets other than goodwill Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Expenditures on internally generated intangible assets, excluding capitalised development costs, are expensed as incurred.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite life are reviewed at least at each year end.
Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are treated as changes in accounting estimates.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, they are tested for impairment annually either individually or at the cash-generating unit level.
116 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 2. significant accounting policies continued Intangible assets other than goodwill continued Thetable below presents the useful lives of intangible assets.
Weighted average remaining Useful lives useful life years years Customer relationships 115 11 Trade names and trademarks 5 Water rights and environmental permits with definite lives 5 2 Patented and unpatented technology 18 13 Contract terms 149 Other 510 6 Certain water rights and environmental permits are considered to have indefinite lives as management believes that these rights will continue indefinitely.
The most part of the Groups intangible assets represents customer relationships arising on business combinations Note 10.
Emission rights One of the Groups subsidiaries participates in the programme for emission reduction established by the Kyoto protocol.
Emission rights allowances for each compliance period one year are issued at the beginning of the year, actual emissions are verified after theend of the year.
Allowances, whether issued by government or purchased, are accounted for as intangible assets in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Allowances that are issued for less than fair value are measured initially at their fair value.
When allowances are issued for less than fair value, the difference between the amount paid and fair value is recognised as a government grant.
Initially the grant is recognised as deferred income in the statement of financial position and subsequently recognised as income on a systematic basis over the compliance period for which the allowances were issued, regardless of whether the allowances are held or sold.
As emissions are made, a liability is recognised for the obligation to deliver allowances equal to emissions that have been made.
This liability is a provision that is within the scope of IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and it is measured at the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period being the present market price of the number of allowances required to cover emissions made up to the end of the reporting period.
Financial assets The Group classified its investments into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity, and available-for-sale.
When investments are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value plus, in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The Group determines the classification of its investments after initial recognition.
Investments that are acquired principally for the purpose of generating a profit from short-term fluctuations in price are classified as held for trading and included in the category financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Investments which are included in this category are subsequently carried at fair value: gains or losses on such investments are recognised in income.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity that management has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity.
Held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective yield method.
Investments intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, are classified as available-for-sale: these are included in non-current assets unless management has the express intention of holding the investment for less than 12 months from the end of the reporting period or unless they will need to be sold to raise operating capital, in which case they are included in current assets.
Management determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of the purchase and re-evaluates such designation on a regular basis.
After initial recognition available-for-sale investments are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the statement of operations.
Reversals of impairment losses in respect of equity instruments are not recognised in the statement of operations.
Impairment losses in respect of debt instruments are reversed through profit or loss if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in thestatement of operations.
Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2. significant accounting policies continued Financial assets continued For investments that are actively traded in organised financial markets, fair value is determined by reference to stock exchange quoted market bid prices at the close of business on the end of the reporting period.
For investments where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
Such techniques include using recent arms length market transactions, reference to the current market value of another instrument, which is substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis or other generally accepted valuation techniques.
All purchases and sales of financial assets under contracts to purchase or sell financial assets that require delivery of the asset within the time frame generally established by regulation or convention in the market place are recognised on the settlement date i. e. the date the asset is delivered by to the counterparty.
Accounts receivable Accounts receivable, which generally are short-term, are recognised and carried at theoriginal invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment of accounts receivable that represents its estimate of incurred losses.
The main components of this allowance are a specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures, and a collective loss component established for groups of similar receivables in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified.
The collective loss allowance is determined based on historical data of payment statistics for similar financial assets.
Inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost of inventory is determined on the weighted average basis and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring or producing inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition.
Thecost of finished goods and work in progress includes an appropriate share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity, but excluding borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Value added tax The tax authorities permit the settlement of sales and purchases value added tax VAT on a net basis.
The Groups subsidiaries apply the accrual method for VAT recognition, under which VAT becomes payable upon invoicing and delivery of goods or rendering services as well upon receipt of prepayments from customers.
VAT on purchases, even if not settled at the end of the reporting period, is deducted from the amount of VAT payable.
Where provision has been made for impairment of receivables, an impairment loss is recorded for the gross amount of the debtor, including VAT.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, borrowings are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method: any difference between the amount initially recognised and the redemption amount is recognised as interest expense over theperiod of the borrowings.
Borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets are capitalised Note 9.
Financial guarantee liabilities Financial guarantee liabilities issued by the Group are those contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because the specified debtor fails to make a payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the guarantee.
Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period and the amount initially recognised.
Equity Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
External costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown as a deduction in equity from the proceeds.
Any excess of the fair value of consideration received over the par value of shares issued is recognised as additional paid-in capital.
Treasury shares Own equity instruments which are acquired by the Group treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in statement of operations on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the treasury shares.
118 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 2. significant accounting policies continued Equity continued Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity only if they are declared before or the end of the reporting period.
Dividends are disclosed when they are proposed before the end of the reporting period or proposed or declared after the end of the reporting period but before the financial statements are authorised for issue.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
Provisions for site restoration costs are capitalised within property, plant and equipment.
Employee benets Social and pension contributions Defined contributions are made by the Group to the Russian and Ukrainian state pension, social insurance, medical insurance and unemployment funds at the statutory rates in force approximately 34%, based on gross salary payments.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions in respect of those benefits.
Its only obligation is to pay contributions as they fall due.
These contributions are expensed as incurred.
Dened benefit plans The Group companies provide pensions and other benefits to their employees Note 23.
Theentitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the completion of a minimum service period.
Certain benefit plans require the employee to remain in service up to retirement age.
Other employee benefits consist of various compensations and non-monetary benefits.
The amounts of benefits are stipulated in the collective bargaining agreements and or in the plan documents.
The Group involves independent qualified actuaries in the measurement of employee benefit obligations.
The liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of post-employment benefits is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of the plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the benefits is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality government bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related obligations.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised as income or expense when the cumulative unrecognised actuarial gains or losses for each individual plan exceed 10% of the higher of defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets.
The excess of cumulative actuarial gains or losses over the 10% of the higher of defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets are recognised over the expected average remaining working lives of the employees participating in the plan.
The past service cost is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
If the benefits are already vested immediately following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, past service cost is recognised immediately.
The defined benefit asset or liability comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation less past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
The Group includes expected return on plan assets in the interest expense caption of theconsolidated statement of operations.
Other costs The Group incurs employee costs related to the provision of benefits such as health services, kindergartens and other services.
These amounts principally represent an implicit cost of employment and, accordingly, have been charged to cost of sales.
Share-based payments The Group has management compensation schemes Note 24, under which certain senior executives and employees of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby they render services as consideration for equity instruments equitysettled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with grantees is measured by reference to the fair value of the Companys shares at the date on which they are granted.
The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes-Merton model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any conditions, other than market conditions.
Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2. significant accounting policies continued Share-based payments continued The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity additional paid-in capital, over the period in which service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant persons become fully entitled to the award the vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The charge or credit in the statement of operations for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Once a share-settled transaction is vested, no further accounting entries are made to reverse the cost already charged, even if the instruments that are the subject of the transaction are subsequently forfeited.
In this case, the Group makes a transfer between different components of equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified.
In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification which increases the total fair value of the share-based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
Cash-settled share-based payments represent transactions in which the Group acquires goods or services by incurring a liability to transfer cash or other assets to thesupplier of those goods or services for amounts that are based on the price or value of the Groups shares or other equity instruments.
The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured initially at fair value at the grant date using the Black-Scholes-Merton model.
This fair value is expensed over the period until the vesting date with recognition of a corresponding liability.
The liability is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date up to and including the settlement date with changes in fair value recognised in the statement of operations.
The dilutive effect of outstanding share-based awards is reflected as additional share dilution in thecomputation of earnings per share Note 20.
Revenue Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
When goods are sold or services are rendered in exchange for dissimilar goods or services, the revenue is measured at the fair value of the goods or services received, adjusted by theamount of any cash or cash equivalents transferred.
When the fair value of the goods or services received cannot be measured reliably, the revenue is measured at the fair value of the goods or services given up, adjusted by the amount of any cash or cash equivalents transferred.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of goods Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Themoment of transfer of the risks and rewards of ownership is determined by thecontract terms.
Rendering of services The Groups revenues from rendering of services include electricity, transportation, port and other services.
Revenue is recognised when services are rendered.
Interest Interest is recognised using the effective interest method.
Dividends Revenue is recognised when the shareholders right to receive the payment is established.
Rental income Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term on ongoing leases.
Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Current income tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised in other comprehensive income or equity and not in the statement of operations.
120 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 2. significant accounting policies continued Deferred income tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated in respect of temporary differences using the liability method.
Deferred income taxes are provided for all temporary differences arising between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their carrying values for financial reporting purposes, except where the deferred income tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
A deferred tax asset is recorded only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Segment information For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and services, and has four reportable operating segments: r Steel production segment includes production of steel and related products at eleven steel mills.
t Mining segment includes iron ore and coal mining and enrichment.
r Vanadium products segment includes extraction of vanadium ore and production of vanadium products.
Vanadium slag arising in the steel-making process is also allocated to the vanadium segment.
r Other operations include energy-generating companies, seaports, shipping and railway transportation companies.
Management and investment companies are not allocated to any of the segments.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable segments.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Management monitors the results of the operating segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on EBITDA.
This performance indicator is calculated based on management accounts that differ from the IFRS consolidated financial statements for thefollowing reasons: 1 for the last month of the reporting period, the statement of operations for each operating segment is prepared using a forecast for that month: 2 the statement of operations is based on local GAAP figures with the exception of depreciation expense which approximates the amount underIFRS.
Segment revenue is revenue reported in the Groups statement of operations that is directly attributable to a segment and the relevant portion of the Groups revenue that can be allocated on a reasonable basis to a segment, whether from sales to external customers or from transactions with other segments.
Segment expense is expense resulting from the operating activities of a segment that is directly attributable to the segment and the relevant portion of an expense that can be allocated on a reasonable basis to the segment, including expenses relating to external counterparties and expenses relating to transactions with other segments.
Segment result is segment revenue less segment expense that is equal to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
Segment EBITDA is determined as a segments profit loss from operations adjusted for impairment of assets, profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, foreign exchange gains losses and depreciation, depletion and amortisation expense.
The following tables present measures of segment profit or loss based on management accounts.
Year ended 31 December 2012 Steel Vanadium Other US$ million production Mining products operations Eliminations Total Revenue Sales to external customers $13,884 $258 $192 $200 $ $14,534 Inter-segment sales 324 2,261 317 606 3,508 Total revenue 14,208 2,519 509 806 3,508 14,534 Segment result EBITDA $1,096 $569 $54 $180 $87 $1,986 Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 121 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3.
Segment information continued Year ended 31 December 2011 Steel Vanadium Other US$ million production Mining products operations Eliminations Total Revenue Sales to external customers $15,622 $420 $269 $166 $ $16,477 Inter-segment sales 422 3,092 364 656 4,534 Total revenue 16,044 3,512 633 822 4,534 16,477 Segment result EBITDA $1,120 $1,529 $111 $176 $17 $2,953 Year ended 31 December 2010 Steel Vanadium Other US$ million production Mining products operations Eliminations Total Revenue Sales to external customers $12,592 $322 $280 $140 $ $13,334 Inter-segment sales 359 2,056 257 536 3,208 Total revenue 12,951 2,378 537 676 3,208 13,334 Segment result EBITDA $1,445 $898 $90 $122 $ 155 $2,400 The following table shows a reconciliation of revenue and EBITDA used by management for decision making and revenue and profit or loss before tax per theconsolidated financial statements prepared under IFRS.
Year ended 31 December 2012 Steel Vanadium Other US$ million production Mining products operations Eliminations Total Revenue $14,208 $2,519 $509 $806 $ 3,508 $14,534 Forecasted vs. actual revenue 96 2 3 14 109 Reclassifications and other adjustments 761 129 14 226 475 83 Revenue per IFRS financial statements $13,543 $2,650 $520 $1,046 $ 3,033 $14,726 EBITDA $1,096 $569 $54 $180 $87 $1,986 Forecasted vs. actual EBITDA 1 3 7 12 3 Exclusion of management services from segment result 103 4934 159 Unrealised profits adjustment 6 6 Reclassifications and other adjustments 134 1 83 17 69 230 53 73 9 6 225 EBITDA based on IFRS financial statements $1,326 $622 $ 19 $189 $93 $2,211 Unallocated subsidiaries 199 $2,012 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation expense 556 611 47 38 1,252 Impairment of assets 58 354 1 413 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 38 17 1 56 Foreign exchange gains losses, net 171 95 76 $845 $ 455 $ 67 $150 $93 $367 Unallocated income expenses, net 124 profit loss from operations $243 Interest income expense, net $ 622 Share of profits losses of joint ventures and associates 1 Gain loss on financial assets and liabilities 164 Gain loss on disposal groups classified as held for sale 114 Other non-operating gains losses, net 6 profit loss before tax $ 106 122 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 3.
Segment information continued Year ended 31 December 2011 Steel Vanadium Other US$ million production Mining products operations Eliminations Total Revenue $16,044 $3,512 $633 $822 $ 4,534 $16,477 Forecasted vs. actual revenue 134 1 5 4 124 Reclassifications and other adjustments 1,461 273 37 148 802 201 Revenue per IFRS financial statements $14,717 $3,784 $665 $966 $ 3,732 $16,400 EBITDA $1,120 $1,529 $111 $176 $17 $2,953 Forecasted vs. actual EBITDA 63 10 5 1 79 Exclusion of management services from segment result 91 43 3 2 139 Unrealised profits adjustment 5 3 15 7 Reclassifications and other adjustments 119 66 84 20 121 142 99 89 21 15 188 EBITDA based on IFRS financial statements $1,262 $1,628 $22 $197 $32 $3,141 Unallocated subsidiaries 243 $2,898 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation expense 546 530 34 40 1,150 Impairment of assets 78 31 5 104 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 29 20 1 50 Foreign exchange gains losses, net 29 103 1 1 74 $580 $1,150 $ 13 $162 $32 $1,668 Unallocated income expenses, net 192 profit loss from operations $1,860 Interest income expense, net $ 691 Share of profits losses of joint ventures and associates 55 Gain loss on financial assets and liabilities 355 Gain loss on disposal groups classified as held for sale 8 Other non-operating gains losses, net 4 profit loss before tax $873 Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 123 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3.
Segment information continued Year ended 31 December 2010 Steel Vanadium Other US$ million production Mining products operations Eliminations Total Revenue $12,951 $2,378 $537 $676 $ 3,208 $13,334 Forecasted vs. actual revenue 112 7 4 1 100 Reclassifications and other adjustments 940 136 33 148 583 40 Revenue per IFRS financial statements $12,123 $2,507 $566 $823 $ 2,625 $13,394 EBITDA $1,445 $898 $90 $122 $ 155 $2,400 Forecasted vs. actual EBITDA 24 14 1 39 Exclusion of management services from segment result 62 32 2 2 98 Unrealised profits adjustment 33 3 45 15 Reclassifications and other adjustments 35 19 41 20 33 40 37 37 22 45 107 EBITDA based on IFRS financial statements $1,485 $935 $53 $144 $ 110 $2,507 Unallocated subsidiaries 157 $2,350 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation expense 558 282 47 37 924 Impairment of goodwill 16 16 Impairment of assets 81 20 30 131 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 33 18 1 52 Foreign exchange gains losses, net 65 2 1 64 $878 $613 $ 10 $77 $ 110 $1,291 Unallocated income expenses, net 39 profit loss from operations $1,330 Interest income expense, net 715 Share of profits losses of joint ventures and associates 21 Gain loss on financial assets and liabilities 8 Gain loss on disposal groups classified as held for sale 14 Gain on bargain purchases 4 Other non-operating gains losses, net 1 profit loss before tax $633 124 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 3.
Segment information continued The revenues from external customers for each group of similar products and services are presented in the following table: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Steel production Construction products $4,322 $4,423 $3,331 Flat-rolled products 2,265 2,760 2,005 Railway products 1,737 1,964 1,466 Tubular products 1,288 1,321 1,309 Semi-finished products 2,066 2,235 2,340 Other steel products 459 554 383 Other products 1,109 1,165 1,064 Rendering of services 87 101 77 13,333 14,523 11,975 Mining Iron ore 347 586 330 Coal 211 392 355 Other products 62 39 26 Rendering of services 15 20 25 635 1,037 736 Vanadium products Vanadium in slag 31 76 39 Vanadium in alloys and chemicals 465 558 493 Other products 5 43 Rendering of services 4 32 505 641 537 Other operations Rendering of services 253 199 146 253 199 146 $14,726 $16,400 $13,394 Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 125 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3.
126 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 3.
Segment information continued Non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit assets were located in the following countries at 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Russia $6,072 $6,153 $6,200 USA 2,014 2,047 2,119 Canada 2,046 2,069 2,166 Ukraine 668 759 892 South Africa 43 567 723 Czech Republic 42 213 241 Italy 204 206 221 Other countries 94 52 40 $11,183 $12,066 $12,602 4.
Acquisition of subsidiaries Acquisitions of controlling interests Inprom group On 22 December 2010, the Group acquired 100% in a holding entity owning steel dealers throughout Russia known as Inprom Group.
The purchase consideration consisted of cash amounting to $19million plus the fair value of a deferred consideration of $21million.
Thefinancial position and the results of operations of Inprom were included in theGroups consolidated financial statements beginning 22December 2010.
The table below sets forth the fair values of consolidated identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree at the date of business combination: 22 December US$ million 2010 Property, plant and equipment $123 Other non-current assets 26 Inventories 31 Accounts and notes receivable 24 Cash 8 Total assets 212 Non-current liabilities 8 Current liabilities 161 Total liabilities 169 Non-controlling interests 1 Net assets $44 Purchase consideration $40 Gain on bargain purchase $4 In 2010, cash flow on acquisition was as follows: US$ million Net cash acquired with the subsidiary $8 Cash paid 18 Net cash outow $ 10 In 2011, the Group made a final payment of $1 million for the acquisition of Inprom Group.
For the period from 22 December to 31 December 2010, Inprom Group reported net loss amounting to $1 million.
Acquisition of other controlling interests On 1 January 2012, the Group obtained control over the operating activities of Kachkanar Heat and Power Plant Russia, for which the Group paid $20million in 2011.
This payment was included in other non-current assets as of 31 December 2011 Note 13.
Goodwill arising on this business combination amounted to $3 million.
In 2012, the Group paid $12 million for the scrap yards located in the USA.
Goodwill arising on this acquisition amounted to $1 million.
Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 127 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 4.
Acquisition of subsidiaries continued Acquisitions of Controlling Interests continued Disclosure of other information in respect of business combinations As the acquired subsidiaries either did not prepare financial statements in accordance with IFRS before the business combinations or applied accounting policies that are significantly different from the Groups accounting policies, it is impracticable to determine revenues and net profit of the combined entity for each year presented on the assumption that all business combinations effected during each year had occurred at the beginning of therespective year.
Other payments for acquisition of subsidiaries In 2011, the Group purchased a 100% ownership interest in an entity whose assets comprise only land to be used for construction of a rolling mill in Russia.
The cash consideration amounted to $11 million.
This purchase did not qualify for a business combination, as theacquired company does not constitute a business.
In 2010, the Group fully settled a $16 million liability under earn-out payments for the acquisition of Stratcor in2006.
In 2011, the Group paid $3million of synergy payments related to the same acquisition Note 26.
On 17 February 2012, the Group purchased the remaining global depository receipts, representing 96,607.67 shares of Evraz Group S. A. for $4million and exchanged them for the newly issued shares of EVRAZ plc.
A. became a wholly-owned subsidiary of EVRAZ plc and a non-controlling interest amounting to $10million was derecognised.
Mezhegey project In June 2012, the Group acquired anadditional 9.996% ownership interest in Actionfield Limited, which holds and operates the Mezhegey coal fieldproject Note 20.
As a result, the Group increased its share in the project to approximately 60.016%.
The fair value of the consideration amounted to $36 million.
It was agreed to settle the liabilities for the purchase by an offset with a loan receivable by the Group.
The excess of the consideration over the carrying value of the acquired non-controlling interest amounting to $30 million was charged to accumulated profits.
Evraztrans In 2011, the Group acquired an additional non-controlling interest of 24% in Evraztrans Note 12, asubsidiary, which renders railway transportation services.
The cash consideration amounted to $51million.
The excess of theamounts of consideration over the carrying values of non-controlling interests acquired amounting to $18million was charged to accumulated profits.
Stratcor In 2010, the Group acquired an additional non-controlling interest of 5.92% in Strategic Minerals Corporation Stratcor for a cash consideration of $8 million paid in 2009.
Theexcess of the amount of consideration paid over thecarrying value of acquired non-controlling interest amounting to $3million was charged to accumulated profits.
LDPP In 2010, the Group acquired an additional non-controlling interest of 25% in OAOLarge Diameter Pipe Plant LDPP for a cash consideration of $8 million.
The excess of thecarrying value of acquired non-controlling interest over the amount of consideration paid amounting to $1 million was recorded in additional paid-in capital.
Goodwill The table below presents movements in the carrying amount of goodwill.
Gross Impairment Carrying US$ million amount losses amount At 31 December 2009 3,081 895 2,186 Adjustment to contingent consideration 8 8 Impairment 16 16 Stratcor, Inc. 16 16 Translation difference 43 2 41 At 31 December 2010 3,132 913 2,219 Adjustment to contingent consideration 6 6 Translation difference 35 2 33 At 31 December 2011 3,091 911 2,180 Goodwill recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries Note 4 4 4 Adjustment to contingent consideration 5 5 Goodwill allocated to disposal groups classified as held for sale Note12 23 23 Translation difference 24 24 At 31 December 2012 $3,091 $ 911 $2,180 128 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 5.
Goodwill continued Goodwill relates to the assembled workforce and synergy from integration of the acquired subsidiaries into the Group.
The carrying amount of goodwill was allocated among cash-generating units as follows at 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 EVRAZ Inc. NA $1,131 $1,130 $1,130 Oregon Steel Portland Mill 412 412 412 Rocky Mountain Steel Mills 410 410 410 OSM Tubular Camrose Mills 157 157 157 Claymont Steel 135 135 135 General Scrap 16 16 16 Others 1 EVRAZ Inc. NA Canada 845 827 845 Calgary 232 227 232 Red Deer 56 55 57 Regina Steel 397 389 397 Regina Tubular 137 134 137 Others 23 22 22 EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli 76 74 78 EVRAZ Vanady-Tula 66 63 66 Strategic Minerals Corporation 20 25 31 EVRAZ Nikom, a. s. 39 37 40 EVRAZ Highveld Steel and Vanadium Limited Note 12 24 29 EVRAZ Kachkanar Heat and Power Plant 3 $2,180 $2,180 $2,219 6.
Impairment of goodwill and other non-current assets For the purpose of the impairment testing as of 31 December 2012 the Group assessed therecoverable amount of each cash-generating unit CGU to which the goodwill was allocated or where indicators of impairment were identified.
The recoverable amount has been determined based on a value-in-use calculation using cash flow projections based on the actual operating results and business plans approved by management and appropriate discount rates reflecting time value of money and risks associated with respective cash-generating units.
For the periods not covered by management business plans, cash flow projections have been estimated by extrapolating the respective business plans results using a zero real growth rate.
The key assumptions used by management in the value-in-use calculations with respect to the cash-generating units to which the goodwill was allocated are presented in the table below.
Average price of Recoverable Carrying Period of Pre-tax commodity amount of amount of forecast, discount per tonne CGU, CGU, years rate, % Commodity in 2013 US$ million US$ million EVRAZ Inc. NA 5 10.80-12.03 steel products $901 3,916 2,157 EVRAZ Inc. NA Canada 5 11.32-11.76 steel products $1,066 2,546 1,851 EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli 5 14.20 steel plates 608 220 193 vanadium EVRAZ Vanady-Tula 5 13.26 products $23,756 172 112 ferrovanadium Vametco 5 13.73 products $24,246 105 43 ferrovanadium EVRAZ Nikom, a. s. 5 12.44 products $22,733 170 42 ferrovanadium EVRAZ Highveld Steel and Vanadium products $23,928 Limited 5 13.28 steel products $769 612 443 Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 129 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 6.
Impairment of goodwill and other non-current assets continued In addition, the Group determined that there were indicators of impairment in other cash generating units and tested them for impairment using the following assumptions.
Average price Period of Pre-tax of commodity forecast, discount per tonne years rate, % Commodity in 2013 EVRAZ Dnepropetrovsk Iron and Steel Works 5 13.85 steel $619 products EVRAZ Nizhny Tagil Iron & Steel Plant 5 13.26 steel $698 products EVRAZ United West-Siberian Iron & Steel Plant 5 13.26 steel $536 products EVRAZ Vitkovice Steel a. s. 5 11.03 steel $838 products EVRAZ Caspian Steel 5 12 steel mill $601 under construction EVRAZ Yuzhny Stan 5 12 steel mill $640 under construction EVRAZ Bagleykoks 5 15.64 coke $227 Strategic Minerals Corporation 5 13.24 ferrovanadium $37,234 products Yuzhkuzbassugol 17 14.49 coal $88 Mezhegeyugol 29 14 undeveloped $133 coal field EVRAZ Kachkanarsky  Integrated Works 7 14.83 ore $74 EVRAZ Sukha Balka 21 16.91 ore $60 EVRAZ Vysokogorsky  Integrated Works 17 14.83 ore $86 Evrazruda 514.83ore $93 EVRAZ Nakhodka Trade Seaport 5 13.26 port services $12 The major drivers that led to impairment were the changes in expectations of long-term prices for iron ore and steel products and the increase in the forecasted costs.
The calculations of value in use are most sensitive to the following assumptions: Discount rates Discount rates reflect the current market assessment of the risks specific to each cash-generating unit.
The discount rates have been determined using the Capital Asset Pricing Model and analysis of industry peers.
Reasonably possible changes in discount rates could lead to an additional impairment at EVRAZ United West-Siberian Iron & Steel Plant, EVRAZ Dnepropetrovsk Iron and Steel Works, EVRAZ Sukha Balka, EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli and EVRAZ Inc. NA cash-generating units.
If discount rates were 10% higher, this would lead to an additional impairment of $284 million.
Sales prices The prices of the products sold by the Group were estimated using industry research.
The Group expects that the nominal prices will grow with a compound annual growth rate of 0%-6.5% in 2013 2017, 3.0% in 2018 and thereafter.
Reasonably possible changes in sales prices could lead to an additional impairment at EVRAZ United West-Siberian Iron & Steel Plant, EVRAZ Dnepropetrovsk Iron and Steel Works, EVRAZ Sukha Balka and EVRAZ Inc. NA cash-generating units.
If the prices assumed for 2013 and 2014 in the impairment test were 10% lower, this would lead to an additional impairment of $411 million.
Sales volumes Management assumed that the sales volumes of steel products would increase by 7% in 2013 and would grow evenly during the following four years to reach normal asset capacity utilisation thereafter.
Reasonably possible changes in sales volumes could lead to an additional impairment at EVRAZ United West-Siberian Iron & Steel Plant, EVRAZ Dnepropetrovsk Iron and Steel Works, and EVRAZ Sukha Balka cash-generating units.
If the sales volumes were 10% lower than those assumed for 2013 and 2014 in the impairment test, this would lead to an additional impairment of $119 million.
Cost control measures The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units are based on the business plans approved by management.
A reasonably possible deviation of cost from these plans could lead to an additional impairment at EVRAZ United West-Siberian Iron & Steel Plant, EVRAZ Dnepropetrovsk Iron and Steel Works, EVRAZ Bagleykoks, EVRAZ Sukha Balka, EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli and EVRAZ Inc. NA cash-generating units.
If the actual costs were 10% higher than those assumed for 2013 and 2014 in the impairment test, this would lead to an additional impairment of $1,048 million.
130 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 6.
Impairment of goodwill and other non-current assets continued Cost control measures continued The units recoverable amount would become equal to its carrying amount if the assumptions used to measure the recoverable amount changed as follows: Discount Sales Sales Cost control rates prices volumes measures EVRAZ United West-Siberian Iron & Steel Plant 0.09% 0.05 % 0.19 % 0.02% EVRAZ Sukha Balka 3% 3 % 5 % 4% EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli 6% 5% EVRAZ Claymont Steel 2% 6 % 3% EVRAZ Bagleykoks 4% In addition to the impairment losses recognised as a result of the impairment testing at thelevel of cash-generating units, the Group made a write-off of certain functionally obsolete items of property, plant and equipment and recorded an impairment relating to theVAT with a long-term recovery.
The summary of impairment losses recognition and reversals is presented below.
Year ended 31 December 2012 Goodwill and intangible Property, plant Taxes US$ million assets and equipment receivable Total Evrazruda $ 1 $ 355 $ $ 356 EVRAZ Dnepropetrovsk Iron and Steel Works 47 4 51 Others, net 2 4 6 $ 1 $ 404 $ 8 $ 413 Year ended 31 December 2011 Goodwill and intangible Property, plant Taxes US$ million assets and equipment receivable Total EVRAZ Dneprodzerzhinsky Coke-chemical Plant $ $ 59 $ 9 $ 68 Yuzhkuzbassugol 31 31 Others, net 9 15 6 $9 $ 105 $ 9 $ 105 Year ended 31 December 2010 Goodwill and intangible Property, plant Taxes US$ million assets and equipment receivable Total Velcast $ $ 38 $ $ 38 Evraz Highveld Steel and Vanadium Limited 31 31 Frotora Holdings Ltd.
Note 5 16 16 Yuzhkuzbassugol 19 19 Others, net 1 21 20 $ 45 $ 109 $ $ 154 Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 131 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7.
Income and expenses Cost of revenues, selling and distribution costs, general and administrative expenses include thefollowing for the years ended 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Cost of inventories recognised as expense $ 6,266 $ 7,106 $ 5,241 Staff costs, including social security taxes 2,404 2,228 1,743 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 1,259 1,153 925 In 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Group made a net reversal of the allowance for net realisable value in the amount of $2 million, $14 million and $35 million, respectively.
Staff costs include the following: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Wages and salaries $1,766 $1,662 $1,347 Social security costs 412 404 257 Post-employment benefit expense 83 59 59 Share-based awards 22 23 2 Other compensations 121 80 78 $2,404 $2,228 $1,743 The average number of staff employed under contracts of service was as follows: 2012 2011 2010 Steel production 63,054 63,414 61,858 Mining 38,878 37,490 38,336 Vanadium products 1,240 1,212 1,178 Other operations 3,884 3,583 3,855 Unallocated 3,404 3,362 3,279 110,460 109,061 108,506 The major components of other operating expenses were as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Idling, reduction and stoppage of production, including termination benefits $ 77 $ 40 $ 45 Restoration works and casualty compensations in connection with accidents 8 4 17 Site restoration provision accrued with respect to Kazankovskaya Note 11 6 Other 44 46 48 $ 129 $ 96 $ 110 Interest expense consisted of the following for the years ended 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Bank interest $ 103 $ 154 $ 241 Interest on bonds and notes 485 495 423 Finance charges payable under finance leases 3 5 6 Interest on liabilities relating to employee benefits and expected return on plan assets Note 23 28 28 32 Discount adjustment on provisions Note25 19 19 15 Interest on contingent consideration 1 1 1 Other 6 6 10 $ 645 $ 708 $ 728 Interest income consisted of the following for the years ended 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Interest on bank accounts and deposits $13 $6 $9 Interest on loans receivable 6 41 Interest on loans receivable from related parties 32 Interest on accounts receivable 1 Other 4 4 $23 $17 $13 132 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 7.
Income and expenses continued Gain loss on financial assets and liabilities included the following for the years ended 31December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets Note 13 $ $ 20 $ 2 Loss on extinguishment of debts Note 21 71 Loss on conversion of bonds Note 21 161 Change in the fair value of derivatives Note 26 177 110 4 Other 13 7 6 $164 $ 355 $8 8.
In addition, in accordance with thenew Tax Code the carrying values of property, plant and equipment per statutory books as of 1 April 2011 became a new tax base of these assets for income tax calculations.
The Groups subsidiaries in Ukraine measured therespective deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2010 based on the new tax bases using theannounced tax rates and a forecast of temporary differences reversal and realisation.
Major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 Decemberwere as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Current income tax expense $ 336 $ 537 $ 415 Adjustment in respect of income tax of previous years 69 129 8 Deferred income tax benefit expense relating to origination and reversal of temporary 38 12 260 differences Income tax expense reported in theconsolidated statement of operations $ 229 $ 420 $ 163 The major part of income taxes is paid in the Russian Federation.
A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to profit before income tax using the Russian statutory tax rate to income tax expense as reported in the Groups consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31December is as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Profit loss before income tax $ 106 $873 $633 At the Russian statutory income tax rate of 20% 21 175 127 Adjustment in respect of income tax of previous years 69 129 8 Deferred income tax expense arising on the adjustment to current income tax of prior periods and the change in tax base of underlying assets 53 116 Deferred income tax benefit resulting from reduction in tax rate 17 Deferred income tax benefit relating to changes in tax regulations other than tax rates 125 Effect of non-deductible expenses and other non-temporary differences 118 282 261 Unrecognised temporary differences recognition reversal 165 52 5 Effect of the difference in tax rates in countries other than the Russian Federation 31 65 82 Tax on dividends distributed by the Groups subsidiaries to parent company 14 Share of profits in joint ventures and associates 11 4 Income tax expense reported in the consolidated statement of operations $ 229 $ 420 $ 163 Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 133 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 8.
Income taxes continued Deferred income tax assets and liabilities and their movements for the years ended 31 December were as follows: Year ended 31 December 2012 Change Trasfer to recognised Change Change disposal in recognised due to Change groups statement Received in other business due to classies of from tax  of as held for Translation US$ million 2012 operations authorities sive income tions subsidiaries sale difference 2011 Deferred income tax liabilities: Valuation and depreciation of property, plant and equipment $900 64 1 13 72 29 $1,021 Valuation and amortisation of intangible assets 153 30 39 1 221 Other 83 9 4 3 93 1,136 103 1 17 111 33 1,335 Deferred income tax assets: Tax losses available for offset 101 37 17 4 151 Accrued liabilities 112 26 12 28 3 123 Impairment of accounts receivable 32 2 1 2 33 Other 30 52 7 2 87 275 65 13 52 11 394 Net deferred income tax asset 66 5 13 5 79 Net deferred income tax liability $927 43 1 4 72 27 $1,020 Year ended 31 December 2011 Change Trasfer to recognised Change Change disposal in recognised due to Change groups statement Received in other business due to classies of from tax  of as held for Translation US$ million 2011 operations authorities sive income tions subsidiaries sale difference 2010 Deferred income tax liabilities: Valuation and depreciation of property, plant and equipment $1,021 1 52 $1,074 Valuation and amortisation of intangible assets 221 38 15 274 Other 93 11 7 89 1,335 28 74 1,437 Deferred income tax assets: Tax losses available for offset 151 14 13 150 Accrued liabilities 123 17 13 153 Impairment of accounts receivable 33 3 3 33 Other 87 40 2 129 394 40 31 465 Net deferred income tax asset 79 17 4 100 Net deferred income tax liability $1,020 5 47 $1,072 134 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 8.
Income taxes continued Year ended 31 December 2010 Change Trasfer to recognised Change Change disposal in recognised due to Change groups statement Received in other business due to classies of from tax  of as held for Translation US$ million 2010 operations authorities sive income tions subsidiaries sale difference 2009 Deferred income tax liabilities: Valuation and depreciation of property, plant and equipment $1,074 184 1 5 13 10 $1,257 Valuation and amortisation of intangible assets 274 38 15 297 Other 89 7 4 92 1,437 229 1 5 13 29 1,646 Deferred income tax assets: Tax losses available for offset 150 5 74 11 5 203 Accrued liabilities 153 23 2 128 Impairment of accounts receivable 33 6 5 22 Other 129 3 1 1 132 465 31 74 17 6 485 Net deferred income tax asset 100 24 10 4 70 Net deferred income tax liability $1,072 236 74 1 2 13 19 $1,231 As of 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010, deferred income taxes in respect of undistributed earnings of the Groups subsidiaries have not been provided for, as management does not intend to distribute accumulated earnings in theforeseeable future.
The current tax rate on intra-group dividend income varies from 0% to 10%.
At31December 2012, the Group has not recognised a deferred tax liability and deferred tax asset in respect of temporary differences of $4,985 million and $8,975 million, respectively 2011: $5,686 million and $3,478 million, 2010: $5,764 million and $2,831million, respectively.
These differences are associated with investments in subsidiaries and were not recognised as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of those temporary differences and does not intend to reverse them in theforeseeable future.
In the context of the Groups current structure, tax losses and current tax assets of the different companies may not be set off against current tax liabilities and taxable profits of other companies, except for the companies registered in Cyprus and the United Kingdom where group relief can be applied.
As of 31 December 2012, the unused tax losses carry forward approximated $3,398million 2011: $3,481million, 2010: $3,365million.
The Group recognised deferred tax asset of $101million 2011: $151million, 2010: $150million in respect of unused tax losses.
Deferred tax asset in the amount of $728million 2011: $694million, 2010: $655million has not been recorded as it is not probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available in the foreseeable future to offset these losses.
Tax losses of $2,603million 2011: $2,568million, 2010: $2,555million for which deferred tax asset was not recognised arose in companies registered in Luxembourg, Cyprus, Russia and Ukraine.
Losses in theamount of $2,414million 2011: $2,479million, 2010: $2,535million are available indefinitely for offset against future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose and $189million will expire during 20132022 2011: $89million, 2010:$20million.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment consisted of the following as of 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Cost: Land $181 $187 $177 Buildings and constructions 2,825 2,594 2,536 Machinery and equipment 5,894 5,798 5,734 Transport and motor vehicles 402 508 483 Mining assets 3,074 2,631 2,656 Other assets 51 75 84 Assets under construction 1,177 1,027 702 13,604 12,820 12,372 Accumulated depreciation, depletion and impairment losses: Buildings and constructions 1,218 954 854 Machinery and equipment 2,706 2,358 2,046 Transport and motor vehicles 225 227 203 Mining assets 1,628 923 607 Other assets 35 52 55 5,812 4,514 3,765 $7,792 $8,306 $8,607 Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 135 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9.
Property, plant and equipment continued The movement in property, plant and equipment for the year ended 31 December 2012 was as follows: Buildings Machinery Transport and and and motor Mining Other Assets under US$ million Land constructions equipment vehicles assets assets construction Total At 31 December 2011, cost, net of accumulated depreciation $187 $1,640 $3,440 $281 $1,708 $23 $1,027 $8,306 Assets acquired in business combination 3 7 14 24 Additions 248 35 1 1,269 1,319 Assets put into operation 1210 590 59 254 4 1,118 Disposals 1 12 43 3 3 5 67 Depreciation and depletion charge 152 534 42 467 7 1,202 Impairment losses recognised in statement of operations 3 96 81 15 199 28 422 Impairment losses reversed through statement of operations 2 10 6 18 Transfer to assets held for sale 10 72 318 125 16 5 21 567 Change in site restoration and decommissioning provision 4 3 52 53 Translation difference 474 109 14 76 53 330 At 31 December 2012, cost, net of accumulated depreciation $181 $1,607 $3,188 $177 $1,446 $16 $1,177 $7,792 The movement in property, plant and equipment for the year ended 31 December 2011 was as follows: Buildings Machinery Transport Assets and and and motor Mining under US$ million Land constructions equipment vehicles assets Other assets construction Total At 31 December 2010, cost, net of accumulated depreciation $177 $1,682 $3,688 $280 $2,049 $29 $702 $8,607 Reclassifications between categories 16 25 1 5 15 Additions 1275 283 1,297 1,352 Assets put into operation 4 193 522 66 101 7 893 Disposals 17 44 4 3 1 3 72 Depreciation and depletion charge 151 485 43 379 6 1,064 Impairment losses recognised in statement of operations 14 47 3 29 21 114 Impairment losses reversed through statement of operations 6 3 1 10 Impairment losses recognised orreversed through other comprehensive income 1 1 Transfer to assets held for sale 4 5 9 Change in site restoration and decommissioning provision 3 4 16 17 Translation difference 6 75 180 14 75 4 66 420 At 31 December 2011, cost, net of accumulated depreciation $187 $1,640 $3,440 $281 $1,708 $23 $1,027 $8,306 136 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 9.
Property, plant and equipment continued The movement in property, plant and equipment for the year ended 31 December 2010 was as follows: Buildings Machinery Transport Assets and and and motor Mining Other under US$ million Land constructions equipment vehicles assets assets construction Total At 31 December 2009, cost, net of accumulated depreciation $164 $1,745 $3,706 $272 $2,132 $27 $539 $8,585 Reclassifications between categories 1 4 1 3 1 Additions 246 25 840 877 Assets acquired in business combination 11 47 55 2 3 5 123 Assets put into operation 1 54 423 45 70 11 604 Disposals 1 9 39 3 12 2 10 76 Depreciation and depletion charge 149 453 40 151 10 803 Impairment losses recognised in statement of operations 4 40 8 65 117 Impairment losses reversed through statement of operations 38 1 3 15 Impairment losses recognised orreversed through other comprehensive income 4 1 2 7 Transfer to assets held for sale 6 9 75 90 Change in site restoration and decommissioning provision 2 71 73 Translation difference 2 38 3 5 1 6 27 At 31 December 2010, cost, net of accumulated depreciation $177 $1,682 $3,688 $280 $2,049 $29 $702 $8,607 Assets under construction include prepayments to constructors and suppliers of property, plant and equipment in the amount of $92 million, $287 million and $250 million as of 31December 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
On 1 April 2012, the Group updated its mining plans relating mostly to the extraction of coking coal reserves.
Consequently, the depreciation and depletion charge in 2012 is lower by $276million compared to theamount that would have been charged in accordance with the previous mining plans.
Impairment losses were identified in respect of certain items of property, plant and equipment that were recognised as functionally obsolete or as a result of the testing at thelevel of cash-generating units Note 6.
The amount of borrowing costs capitalised during the year ended 31 December 2012 was $16 million 2011: $13 million, 2010: $5 million.
In 2012, the rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 4.8% 2011: 4.6%, 2010: 6.3%, which is the effective interest rate of borrowings that were outstanding during the period, other than borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining qualifying assets.
Intangible assets other than goodwill Intangible assets consisted of the following as of 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Cost: Customer relationships $878 $1,230 $1,353 Trade names and trademarks 28 31 31 Water rights and environmental permits 57 64 64 Patented and unpatented technology 9 910 Contract terms 16 11 Other 63 55 53 1,035 1,405 1,522 Accumulated amortisation: Customer relationships 373 480 441 Trade names and trademarks 28 31 25 Water rights and environmental permits 7 6 Patented and unpatented technology 8 8 8 Contract terms 4 3 Other 40 37 35 449 567 518 $586 $838 $1,004 As of 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010, water rights and environmental permits with acarrying value of $56 million had an indefinite useful life.
Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 10.
Intangible assets other than goodwill continued The movement in intangible assets for the year ended 31 December 2012 was as follows: Water Patented Trade rights and and Customer names and environmental unpatented Contract US$ million relationships trademarks permits technology terms Other Total At 31 December 2011, cost, net of accumulated amortisation $750 $ $57 $1 $12 $18 $838 Assets acquired in business combination 1 1 Additions 13 13 Amortisation charge 99 4 103 Emission allowances granted 4 4 Emission allowances used sold purchased for the period 7 7 Impairment loss recognised in statement of operations 1 1 Transfer to assets held for sale 149 12 161 Translation difference 2 2 At 31 December 2012, cost, net of accumulated amortisation $505 $ $57 $1 $ $23 $586 The movement in intangible assets for the year ended 31 December 2011 was as follows: Water rights and Patented and Customer Trade names environmental unpatented Contract US$ million relationships and trademarks permits technology terms Other Total At 31 December 2010, cost, net of accumulated amortisation $912 $6 $58 $2 $8 $18 $1,004 Additions 4 4 Amortisation charge 111 6 1 5 123 Emission allowances granted 7 7 Emission allowances used sold purchased for the period 4 4 Impairment loss recognised in statement of operations 2 2 Impairment losses reversed through statement of operations 6 5 11 Translation difference 57 1 1 59 At 31 December 2011, cost, net of accumulated amortisation $750 $ $57 $1 $12 $18 $838 138 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 10.
Intangible assets other than goodwill continued The movement in intangible assets for the year ended 31 December 2010 was as follows: Water Trade rights and Patented and Customer names and environmental unpatented Contract US$ million relationships trademarks permits technology terms Other Total At 31 December 2009, cost, net of accumulated amortisation $969 $12 $59 $3 $40 $15 $1,098 Additions 7 7 Amortisation charge 113 6 1 2 1 4 127 Emission allowances granted 6 6 Emission allowances used sold purchased for the period 5 5 Impairment loss recognised in statement of operations 30 30 Impairment losses reversed through statement of operations 1 1 Translation difference 55 1 1 1 54 At 31 December 2010, cost, net of accumulated amortisation $912 $6 $58 $2 $8 $18 $1,004 11.
Investments in joint ventures and associates The Group accounted for investments in joint ventures and associates under the equity method.
The movement in investments in joint ventures and associates was as follows: KazankovOther US$ million Corber Streamcore skaya associates Total Investment at 31 December 2009 $569 $44 $ $21 $634 Share of profit loss 95 1 96 Impairment of investments 23 10 33 Translation difference 8 1 9 Investment at 31 December 2010 656 21 11 688 Additional investments 3 9 12 Write-off of loan receivable 3 3 Share of profit loss 50 1 51 Reversal of impairment of investments 4 4 Dividends paid 52 2 54 Translation difference 33 1 1 35 Investment at 31 December 2011 $621 $24 $ $18 $663 Additional investments 5 5 Write-off of loan receivable Note16 5 5 Share of profit loss 11 7 4 Reversal of impairment of investments 5 5 Dividends paid 86 2 88 Acquisition of non-controlling interests 22 22 Return of capital 38 38 Unrealised gains on financial assets 1 1 Translation difference 42 2 44 Investment at 31 December 2012 $507 $36 $ $18 $561 Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 139 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11.
Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Share of profit loss of joint ventures and associates which is reported in the statement of operations comprised the following: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Share of profit loss, net $ 4 $51 $96 Reversal of impairment impairment of investments 5 4 33 Groups share in excess of net assets of ZAOKoksovaya transferred to Raspadskaya over consideration received Note 12 42 Share of profits losses of joint ventures and associates recognised in the consolidated statement of operations $1 $55 $21 Corber Enterprises Limited Corber Enterprises Limited Corber is a joint venture established in 2004 for thepurpose of exercising joint control over economic activities of Raspadskaya Mining Group.
Corber is registered in Cyprus.
The Group had a 50% share in the joint venture, i. e. at 31 December 2012 it effectively owned approximately 41% in JSCRaspadskaya 2011 and 2010: 40%.
The table below sets forth Corbers assets and liabilities as of 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Mineral reserves $742 $733 $798 Other property, plant and equipment 924 901 920 Other non-current assets 70 54 27 Inventories 111 84 77 Accounts and notes receivable 252 198 275 Cash 8 180 165 Total assets 2,107 2,150 2,262 Non-current liabilities 593 38 338 Deferred income tax liabilities 172 174 188 Current liabilities 106 455 82 Total liabilities 871 667 608 Non-controlling interests 227 243 335 Net assets $1,009 $1,240 $1,319 Groups share of net assets 505 620 659 Add: cost of guarantee 2 22 Less: unrealised profits in inventory balance 1 5 Investment $507 $621 $656 The table below sets forth Corbers income and expenses: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Revenue $542 $726 $706 Cost of revenue 460 361 323 Other expenses, including income taxes 112 246 139 Net profit loss $ 30 $119 $244 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent entity $ 23 $93 $194 Non-controlling interests 7 26 50 Net profit loss $ 30 $119 $244 50% of unrealised profits on transactions with the joint venture 1 4 2 Groups share of profits losses of the joint venture $ 11 $50 $95 Buyback of shares by Raspadskaya In 2012, Raspadskaya, a subsidiary of Corber, the Groups joint venture, made a buyback of 9.94% of its shares from shareholders.
At the end of February 2012, Corber sold 48,351,712 shares back to Raspadskaya for $248 million.
As a result of the buyback, Corber effectively acquired an additional 1.95% share in Raspadskaya and its ownership interest increased to 81.95%.
The Groups share in the excess of the amounts of consideration over the carrying values of non-controlling interests acquired amounting to $22million was charged to accumulated profits of the Group.
140 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 11.
Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Corber Enterprises Limited continued Return of capital In September 2012, the Board of Directors of Corber decided to reduce its additional paid-in capital by $76 million by the return of funds to its shareholders.
The Group received $38million in cash.
Acquisition of a controlling interest in Corber In October 2012, EVRAZ plc concluded a preliminary agreement with Adrolive Investments Limited for an acquisition of a 50% ownership interest in Corber subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals and fulfillment of certain other conditions.
On16January 2013, all the conditions were met and the Group obtained control over theentity.
As a result, Corber became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group in 2013.
Management believes that this acquisition will increase the Groups coking coal self-coverage and generate substantial operational synergies to the Group, including theoptimal use of various coal grades.
The purchase consideration includes 132,653,006 shares of EVRAZ plc issued on 16January 2013, warrants to subscribe for additional 33,944,928 EVRAZ plc shares exercisable at zero price in the period from 17 January to 17 April 2014 and a cash consideration of $202 million to be paid in equal quarterly installments through 15 January 2014.
Fair value of the consideration transferred totalled to $964 million and was determined by reference to the market value of EVRAZ plc shares at the date of acquisition.
The fair value of the equity interest in the acquiree held by the Group immediately before the acquisition approximated $650 million.
If this business combination had occurred as of the beginning of 2012, the revenue of the combined entity would have been $15,133million.
In addition to the information disclosed in respect of this acquisition, IFRS 3 Business Combinations requires the Group to disclose the amounts to be recognised at theacquisition date for each class of the acquirees assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and profit or loss of the combined entity as if this acquisition had occurred as of the beginning of the annual reporting period.
It is impracticable to disclose this information because the Group has not completed purchase price allocation in accordance with IFRS3 Business Combinations.
Kazankovskaya ZAOKazankovskaya Kazankovskaya is a Russian coal mining company that was acquired as part of the purchase of Yuzhkuzbassugol in 2007.
The Group owns 50% in Kazankovskaya.
The table below sets forth Kazankovskayas assets and liabilities as of 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Mineral reserves $ $ $ Other property, plant and equipment Inventories 1 Accounts receivable 11 Other current assets 2 21 Total assets 2 33 Non-current liabilities 9 69 65 Deferred income tax liabilities 34 Current liabilities 116 25 24 Total liabilities 125 97 93 Net liabilities $ 123 $ 94 $ 90 The accumulated unrecognised losses in respect of Kazankovskaya amounted to: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Unrecognised losses $ 39 $ 27 $ 21 The table below sets forth Kazankovskayas income and expenses: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Revenue $ $ $14 Cost of revenue 1 32 Other expenses, including income taxes 23 10 23 Net loss 23 11 41 Groups share of loss of the associate $ 12 $ 6 $ 21 In January 2013, the Group acquired an additional 50% in Kazankovskaya from Magnitogorsk Steel Plant for a cash consideration of 167 US dollars.
The primary reason for the business combination is a preparation for the subsequent sale of the mines.
Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 141 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11.
Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Streamcore The Group owns a 50% interest in Streamcore Cyprus, a joint venture established for thepurpose of exercising joint control over facilities for scrap procurement and processing in Siberia, Russia.
The table below sets forth Streamcores assets and liabilities as of 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Property, plant and equipment $55 $40 $31 Accounts receivable 59 11 17 Total assets 114 51 48 Deferred income tax liabilities 3 14 Current liabilities 39 11 Total liabilities 42 25 Net assets $72 $49 $43 Groups share of net assets 36 24 21 Groups share in goodwill Investment $36 $24 $21 The table below sets forth Streamcores income and expenses: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Revenue $504 $9 $10 Cost of revenue 472 6 9 Other expenses, including income taxes 18 3 1 Net profit $14 $ $ Groups share of profit of the joint venture $7 $ $ 12.
Disposal groups held for sale The major classes of assets and liabilities of the disposal groups measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell were as follows as of 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Property, plant and equipment $368 $9 $2 Intangible assets 149 Goodwill 18 Other non-current assets 35 Accounts receivable 290 Cash and cash equivalents 70 Assets classied as held for sale 930 92 Deferred income tax liabilities 75 Non-current liabilities 125 Current liabilities 278 Liabilities directly associated with assets classied as held for sale 478 Non-controlling interests 49 Net assets classied as held for sale $403 $9 $2 142 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 12.
Disposal groups held for sale continued The net assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale at 31 December related to the following reportable segments: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Assets classied as held for sale $930 $9 $2 Steel production 843 8 Mining 16 12 Vanadium products 71 Liabilities directly associated with assets classied as held for sale 478 Steel production 429 Mining 41 Vanadium products 8 Non-controlling interests 49 Steel production 40 Vanadium products 9 At 31 December 2012, the disposal groups held for sale consisted mostly of the assets and liabilities of EVRAZ Vitkovice Steel and EVRAZ Highveld Steel and Vanadium Limited EHSVL, which the Group plans to sell in 2013.
Thedifference between the carrying value of thenet assets of the subsidiaries and theexpected consideration amounting to $83million was recognised as a loss on disposal groups classified as held for sale.
The table below demonstrates the carrying values of assets and liabilities, at the dates of disposal, of the subsidiaries and other business units disposed of during 20102012.
US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Property, plant and equipment $130 $1 $90 Other non-current assets 13 Inventory 10 Accounts receivable 70 22 Cash and cash equivalents 2 Total assets 225 1112 Deferred income tax liabilities 12 13 Non-current liabilities 7 1 Current liabilities 99 Total liabilities 118 14 Non-controlling interests 2 Net assets $109 $1 $98 The net assets of disposal groups sold in 20102012 related to the following reportable segments: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Assets classied as held for sale $225 $1 $112 Steel production 75 Mining 3 1112 Other operations 147 Liabilities directly associated with assets classied as held for sale 118 14 Steel production 86 Mining 2 14 Other operations 30 Non-controlling interests 2 Steel production 2 Cash flows on disposal of subsidiaries and other business units were as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Net cash disposed of with subsidiaries $ 2 $ $ Cash received 313 542 Net cash inow $311 $5 $42 At 31 December 2010, theGroup owed $5million in respect of the disposed business units.
In 2011, following the arbitration courts decision, these payables were written off and recorded as a gain on assets held for sale.
Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 143 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 12.
Disposal groups held for sale continued The disposal groups sold during 20102012 are described below.
Evraztrans In December 2012, the Group sold to a third party a business of its wholly owned subsidiary Evraztrans, which renders long-distance railway transportation services using own and rented railcars.
Cash consideration amounted to $306 million.
The Group recognised a gain of $190million on this transation.
Dneprodzerzhinsky coke-chemical plant In August 2012, the Group sold to its parent a controlling interest in a loss-making coke-chemical plant located in Ukraine.
The Group recognised a $14 million gain on this sale.
In April 2012, the Group sold its ownership interest in a subsidiary whose assets comprised only rights under a long-term lease of land to be used for a construction of a commercial seaport in Ukraine.
These rights were included in contract terms category of the intangible assets.
In2010, the Group recognised an impairment loss of $30 million in respect of these rights due to the change in plans for the use of this land.
In 2012, theGroup recognised a $6 million loss on sale of this subsidiary.
Sale of Koksovaya In April 2010, the Group sold ZAO Koksovaya to Raspadskaya, a subsidiary of Corber, theGroups joint venture Note 11.
ZAO Koksovaya is an operating hard coking coal mine, which owns the licence for the Tomusinskaya 5-6 coal deposit.
As part of the transaction, theparties entered into a long-term off-take contract under which Raspadskaya committed to supply to theGroup certain volumes of coal or concentrate produced from coal extracted on theTomusinskaya 5-6 deposit during 20102019.
The cash consideration amounted to $40 million.
The loss from sale, net of theGroups share in gain on the transaction recognised by Raspadskaya Note11, amounted to $15million and was included in loss on disposal groups classified as held for sale caption of the consolidated statement of operations.
Other disposal groups held for sale Other disposal groups held for sale included a few small subsidiaries involved in non-core activities construction business, trading activity and recreational services and other non-current assets.
Other non-current assets Non-current financial assets US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Available-for-sale financial assets investments in Delong Holdings Limited $21 $17 $37 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments Note 26 2 5 Restricted deposits 4 15 9 Loans to related parties Note16 46 Loans receivable 12 18 17 Trade and other receivables 4 33 Other 49 1 $92 $53 $118 Other non-current assets US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Income tax receivable $33 $26 $24 Input VAT 17 11 11 Defined benefit plan asset Note 23 39 28 19 Fees for future purchases under a long-term contract 11 Prepayments for purchases of subsidiaries Note 4 20 Prepayment for purchases of associates and joint ventures 9 Other 14 22 29 $103 $107 $103 Available-for-sale financial assets At 31 December 2012, the Group holds 82,853,998 shares of Delong Holdings Limited Delong, which is approximately 15% of the entitys share capital.
Delong is a flat steel producer headquartered in Beijing China.
The investments in Delong are measured at fair value based on market quotations.
The change in the fair value of these shares is initially recorded in other comprehensive income.
144 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 13.
Other non-current assets continued Available-for-sale financial assets continued In 2010, the Group recognised $6 million impairment loss on Delong shares, including $4million through other comprehensive income and $2million through the statement of operations within the gain loss on financial assets and liabilities caption.
In 2011, a$20million loss relating to the decline in quotations of Delong shares was recognised in the statement of operations.
In 2012, the Group recognised a $4million gain on theincrease in market quotations in other comprehensive income.
Impairment of long-term taxes In 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Group recognised an impairment relating to the VAT with along-term recovery in theamount of $8 million, $9million and $Nil, respectively.
This loss was included in the impairment of assets caption of the consolidated statement of opertions.
Inventories Inventories consisted of the following as of 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Raw materials and spare parts $959 $975 $974 Work-in-progress 397 466 444 Finished goods 622 747 652 $1,978 $2,188 $2,070 As of 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010, the net realisable value allowance was $90million, $90million and $114million, respectively.
As of 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010, certain items of inventory with an approximate carrying amount of $319million, $250 million and $203 million, respectively, were pledged to banks as collateral against loans provided to the Group Note 21.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables consisted of the following as of 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Trade accounts receivable $939 $1,002 $1,239 Other receivables 32 56 72 971 1,058 1,311 Allowance for doubtful accounts 76 87 98 $895 $971 $1,213 Ageing analysis and movement in allowance for doubtful accounts are provided in Note29.
Related party disclosures Related parties of the Group include associates and joint venture partners, key management personnel and other entities that are under the control or significant influence of the key management personnel, the Groups ultimate parent or its shareholders.
Inconsidering each possible related party relationship, attention is directed to thesubstance of the relationship, not merely the legal form.
Amounts owed by to related parties at 31 December were as follows: Amounts due from Amounts due to related parties related parties US$ million 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Kazankovskaya $23 $21 $21 $ $ $1 Lanebrook Limited 53 Raspadsky Ugol 2 22 42 39 32  3 45 Yuzhny GOK 4 519 163 46 178 Other entities 14 99 7 13 6 46 37 104 257 98 217 Less: allowance for doubtful accounts 34 29 24 $12 $8 $80 $257 $98 $217 In 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Group recognised an expense for bad and doubtful debts of related parties in the amount of $4 million, $7 million and $15 million, respectively.
Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 145 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 16.
Related party disclosures continued Transactions with related parties were as follows for the years ended 31 December: Sales to Purchases from related parties related parties US$ million 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Interlock Security Services $1 $1 $1 $48 $43 $37 Kazankovskaya 1 16 1 514 Raspadsky Ugol 8 811 127 207 192  14 485 Yuzhny GOK 66 42 20 124 165 67 Other entities 9 88 31 27 20 $99 $60 $46 $816 $447 $330 In addition to the disclosures presented in this note, some of the balances and transactions with related parties are disclosed in Notes 11 and13.
Interlock Security Services is a group of entities controlled by a member of the key management personnel, which provide security services to the Russian subsidiaries of theGroup.
Kazankovskaya is an associate of the Group Note 11.
The Group purchased coal from the entity and sold mining equipment and inventory to Kazankovskaya.
In 2012 and 2011, theGroup issued short-term loans to Kazankovskaya bearing an interest rate ranging from 8.1% to 8.5% per annum.
At the reporting dates, the Group assessed therecoverability of these loans and recognised a loss, which was included in the other non-operating expenses caption of theconsolidated statement of operations 2012: $5 million, 2011: $3 million.
Lanebrook Limited is a controlling shareholder of the Company.
At 31 December 2010, the amounts receivable from Lanebrook Limited included overpayments for the acquired working capital of theUkrainian subsidiaries and a $46 million loan.
The loan bore interest of 7.85% per annum and was due for repayment on 22June 2012.
At31December 2010, the loan was included in other non-current assets.
In 2011, Lanebrook early settled the loan and fully repaid its debts relating to the acquisition of theUkrainian businesses.
In addition, in 2008 the Group acquired from Lanebrook a1%ownership interest in Yuzhny GOK for a cash consideration of $38 million Note18.
As part of thetransaction, the Group signed a put option agreement that gives the Group the right to sell these shares back to Lanebrook Limited for the same amount.
The put option expires on 31 December 2013.
In 2012, the Group sold one of its subsidiaries to Lanebrook Note 12.
OOO Raspadsky Ugol Raspadsky Ugol, a subsidiary of the Groups joint venture Corber Note 11, sells coal to the Group.
Raspadsky Ugol represents approximately 12% of the Groups coal consumption.
The coal was sold at prevailing market prices at the dates of transactions.
The Group sells steel products and renders services to Raspadsky Ugol..  is a new subsidiary of Streamcore, the Groups joint venture, acquired in February 2012.
Itsells scrap metal to the Group and provides scrap processing and other services.
In 2012, the purchases of scrap metal from  amounted to $399 million 1,366,423 tonnes.
Yuzhny GOK, an ore mining and processing plant, is an associate of Lanebrook Limited.
The Group sold steel products to Yuzhny GOK and purchased sinter from the entity.
In2012, thevolume of purchases achieved 1,432,473 tonnes.
In addition to the purchase transactions disclosed above, in July 2011 the Group acquired an office building for its administrative staff in Moscow from OOO Zapadnye Vorota, anentity under the control of the ultimate principal shareholders of the Group.
The cash consideration including VAT amounted to $102 million.
The transactions with related parties were based on market terms.
Compensation to key management personnel Key management personnel include the following positions within the Group: r Directors of the Company, r vice presidents, r top managers of major subsidiaries.
146 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 16.
Related party disclosures continued Compensation to key management personnel continued In 2010-2012, key management personnel totalled 55 people.
Total compensation to key management personnel were included in general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations and consisted of the following: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Salary $21 $20 $21 Performance bonuses 14 12 14 Social security taxes 3 11 Share-based payments Note 24 10 13 1 Termination benefits 34 Other benefits 1 13 $49 $50 $44 Other disclosures on Directors remuneration required by the Companies Act 2006 and those specified for audit by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Other taxes recoverable Taxes recoverable consisted of the following as of 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Input VAT $206 $287 $241 Other taxes 123 125 112 $329 $412 $353 Input VAT, representing amounts payable or paid to suppliers, is recoverable from the tax authorities via offset against VAT payable to the tax authorities on the Groups revenue or direct cash receipts from the tax authorities.
Management periodically reviews therecoverability of the balance of input value added tax and believes it is fully recoverable within one year.
Other current financial assets Other current assets included the following as of 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Investments in Yuzhny GOK Note16 $38 $38 $38 Bank deposits 674 21 Restricted deposits at banks 713 Collateral under swap agreements Note 26 10 $712 $57 $52 19.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents, mainly consisting of cash at banks, were denominated in thefollowing currencies as of 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 US dollar $855 $314 $306 Russian rouble 347 262 200 Canadian dollar 80 21 69 Euro 17 89 46 South African rand 10 80 49 Ukrainian hryvnia 9 25 10 Czech koruna 61 Other 2 42 $1,320 $801 $683 20.
Equity Share Capital Prior to the reorganisation on 7 November 2011, in which substantially all shares of Evraz GroupS.
A. were converted into shares of EVRAZ plc, the share capital of the Group comprised the share capital of Evraz Group S. A.
Share capital of Evraz Group S. A. before reorganisation 7 November 31 December Number of shares 2011 2010 Ordinary shares of2each, issued and fully paid 156,214,373 145,957,121 The issued and fully paid share capital of Evraz Group S. A. included 7,333,333 shares which were issued at zero consideration in 2009.
Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 147 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 20.
Equity continued Share capital continued Share capital of Evraz Group S. A. before reorganisation continued Conversion of bonds into shares InJuly and August 2011, Evraz Group S. A. issued 30,771,756GDRs representing 10,257,252 ordinary shares to bondholders which had accepted the offer to convert 7.25% convertible bonds due 2014 Note 21.
Share capital of EVRAZ plc 31 December Number of shares 2012 2011 Ordinary shares of$1each, issued and fully paid 1,339,929,360 1,337,560,713 On 17 October 2011, following the decision of the Board of Directors, Evraz Group S. A. commenced the Groups reorganisation and re-domiciliation to theUnited Kingdom.
This was implemented by means of the share exchange offer made by the Company to theshareholders of Evraz Group S. A. which were entitlied to receive 9shares of EVRAZplc for each share of Evraz Group S. A.
The first share exchange was performed on 7 November 2011: EVRAZ plc issued 1,313,258,883 ordinary shares with par value of $2 each and exchanged them for approximately 98.01% interest in Evraz Group S. A.
The new shares were admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on theLondon Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
On24 November 2011, the par value of the shares was reduced to $1, and $1,313 million representing distributable reserves were transferred to accumulated profits.
All subsequent shares were issued with par value of $1 each.
The exchange offer was finally closed on 7February 2012.
Information about the share exchange is summarised below.
At 31 December 2011, there were shareholders which did not accept the share exchange offer.
Accordingly, the Group recognised non-controlling interests of $11million representing these shareholders.
On 17 February 2012, the Group purchased the remaining GDRs, representing 96,607.67 shares of Evraz Group S. A. for $4 million and exchanged them for 869,469 newly issued shares of EVRAZ plc.
A. became a wholly-owned subsidiary of EVRAZ plc.
Treasury shares 31 December 2012 2011 2010 Parent entity EVRAZ plc EVRAZ plc Evraz Group S. A.
Number of treasury shares 146,731 775,410 7,333,333 In 2012, the Group purchased 869,469 shares of EVRAZ plc for $4million and transferred 1,498,148 shares to participants of the Incentive Plan.
The cost of treasury shares gifted under Incentive Plans, amounting to $11million, was charged to accumulated profits.
In 2011, the Group purchased 235,878 shares of Evraz Group S. A. for $22 million, sold 34,332 shares for $3 million and transferred 115,389shares to participants of the Incentive Plan Note 24.
The outstanding balance of the treasury shares has been exchanged into the shares of EVRAZ plc during the reorganisation described above.
The cost of treasury shares gifted under an Incentive Plan, amounting to $11million, was charged to accumulated profits.
148 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 20.
Equity continued Earnings per share Earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net income attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the potential dilutive ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 2012 2011 2010 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 1,339,027,567 1,293,795,125 1,247,614,092 Effect of dilution: share-based awards 2,689,622 134,937 Weighted average number of ordinary shares adjusted for the effect of dilution 1,339,027,567 1,296,484,747 1,247,749,029 Profit loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent, US$million $ 308 $461 $486 Basic earnings losses per share $ 0.23 $0.36 $0.39 Diluted earnings losses per share $ 0.23 $0.36 $0.39 In 2010, the weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share does not include 7,333,333 shares of Evraz Group S. A. issued in 2009 to Lanebrook in exchange for theright to receive 7,333,333 shares lent under the shares lending transactions.
These transactions had no impact on equity, as the Groups net assets did not change as a result of these transactions.
In 2011 and 2010, share-based awards Note24 had a dilutive effect.
In 2012, theGroup reported net loss.
In 2010, theconvertible bonds were antidilutive as the interest net of tax per ordinary share obtainable on conversion exceeded basic earnings per share.
In 2011, the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding from 1 January 2011 to the date of the first share exchange the reorganisation date was computed on the basis of the weighted average number of ordinary shares of Evraz Group S. A. outstanding during the period multiplied by the share exchange ratio.
The number of ordinary shares outstanding from the reorganisation date to the end of 2011 was the actual number of ordinary shares of EVRAZ plc outstanding during that period.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding and earnings per share for 2010 were recalculated using the share exchange ratio.
In 2013, in connection with the purchase of a controlling interest in Corber Note 11, EVRAZ plc issued 132,653,006 shares and warrants to subscribe for an additional 33,944,928 shares exercisable at zero price.
The number of the additionally issued shares is adjusted for dividends that could be declared during the period from the date of issue of the warrants till the date of their exercise.
There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of completion of these consolidated financial statements.
Dividends Dividends declared by the parent company during 20102012 were as follows: Dividends Date of To holders declared, US$ per declaration registered at US$ million share Declared by Evraz Group S. A.
In the consolidated financial statements of the Group for 2011 these dividends were charged against accumulated profits.
At a meeting held on 15 May 2012, the shareholders of EvrazGroupS.
A. approved the distribution of those dividends from share premium of EvrazGroupS.
A. Consequently, in 2012, the Group decreased its additional paid-in capital and increased accumulated profits by $491 million.
The shareholders meeting held on 16 May 2011 resolved not to declare dividends for 2010.
In addition, certain subsidiaries of the Group declared dividends.
The share of non-controlling shareholders in those dividends was $1 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010.
Legal reserve According to the Luxembourg Law, EvrazGroupS.
A. is required to create a legal reserve of 10% of share capital per the Luxembourg statutory accounts by annual appropriations which should be at least 5% of the annual net profit per statutory financial statements.
Thelegal reserve can be used only in case of a bankruptcy.
Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 149 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 20.
Equity continued Other movements in equity Acquisitions of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries In 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Group acquired non-controlling interests in certain subsidiaries Note4.
The excess of consideration over the carrying value of non-controlling interests amounting to $30 million, $18 million and $3 million, respectively, was charged to accumulated profits and theexcess of acquired non-controlling interests over the consideration amounting to $Nil, $Nil and $1 million, respectively, was recorded as additional paid-in capital.
In 2012, as a result of the completion of the Groups reorganisation, in which the remaining global depository receipts of EvrazGroupS.
A. were converted into the newly issued shares of EVRAZ plc, a 0.18% non-controlling interest in Evraz Group S. A. was derecognised Note 4.
This increased the shareholders equity by $6 million.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries In 2011, the Group sold a 49.98% share in the Mezhegey coal field project to a third party for a non-cash consideration of $34 million, which approximated the carrying value ofanon-controlling interest arose on the transaction.
In June 2012, the Group acquired anadditional 9.996% ownership interest and its share in the project increased to approximately 60.016% Note 4.
During 2012 the non-controlling shareholder contributed $7million to the Mezhegey coal field project.
In 2010, the non-controlling shareholders right to put a 49% share in Frotora Holdings Ltd. Frotora to the Group at fair value of the ownership interest become exercisable.
The Group derecognised a 49% ownership interest in Frotora amounting to $6 million and accrued a liability for the same amount.
In 2012, the Group sold Frotora to athird party Note 12.
Loans and borrowings As of 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010, total interest-bearing loans and borrowings consisted of short-term loans and borrowings in the amount of $527 million, $339million and $381million, respectively, and long-term loans and borrowings in theamount of $7,652 million, $6,919million and $7,636 million, respectively, including the current portion of long-term liabilities of $1,164 million, $193 million and $244million, respectively.
Some of the loan agreements and terms and conditions of notes provide for certain covenants in respect of Evraz Group S. A. and its subsidiaries.
The covenants impose restrictions in respect of certain transactions and financial ratios, including restrictions in respect of indebtedness and profitability.
Short-term and long-term loans and borrowings were as follows as of 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Bank loans $2,562 $2,613 $3,472 European commercial papers 242 8.875 per cent notes due 2013 534 534 1,156 7.25 per cent convertible bonds due 2014 Note 20 650 8.25 per cent notes due 2015 577 577 577 7.40 per cent notes due 2017 600 9.5 per cent notes due 2018 509 509 509 6.75 per cent notes due 2018 850 850 13.5 per cent bonds due 2014 658 621 656 9.25 per cent bonds due 2013 494 466 492 9.95 per cent bonds due 2015 494 466 492 8.40 per cent bonds due 2016 658 621 Liabilities under bonds assumed in business combination 1 113 Unamortised debt issue costs 116 133 192 Difference between the nominal amount and liability component of convertible bonds Note 20 104 Interest payable 93 81 90 $8,156 $7,206 $7,811 The average effective annual interest rates were as follows at 31 December: Long-term borrowings Short-term borrowings 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 US dollar 7.13% 6.96% 8.01% 3.00% 2.89% 3.06% Russian rouble 10.51% 10.37% 11.17% 11.52% 10.83% 12.50% Euro 3.93% 4.66% 5.05% 2.75% 3.64% 1.48% Canadian dollar 3.85% Czech koruna 3.38% 150 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 21.
Loans and borrowings continued The liabilities are denominated in the following currencies at 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 US dollar $5,434 $4,790 $6,079 Russian rouble 2,349 2,215 1,699 Euro 381 328 322 Canadian dollar 108 Czech koruna 67 Unamortised debt issue costs 116 133 192 Difference between the nominal amount and liability component of convertible bonds Note 20 104 $8,156 $7,206 $7,811 Pledged assets The Group pledged its rights under some export contracts as collateral under the loan agreements.
All proceeds from sales of steel pursuant to these contracts can be used to satisfy the obligations under the loan agreements in the event of a default.
At 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Group had inventory with a carrying value of $319million, $250million and $203million, respectively, pledged as collateral under theloan agreements.
Issue of notes and bonds In April 2012, the Group issued notes in the amount of $600 million due in 2017.
The notes bear semi-annual coupon at the annual rate of 7.40%and must be redeemed at their principal amount on 24 April 2017.
The proceeds from the issue of the notes were used for the repayment of certain bank loans.
In December 2012, the Group issued European commercial papers in the amount of $80million and $170 million bearing an interest rate of 3.50% and 3.75%, respectively, and maturing on 6 September 2013 and 4 December 2013, respectively.
In 2011, the Group issued notes for the amount of $850 million due in 2018.
The notes bear semi-annual coupon at the annual rate of 6.75% and must be redeemed at their principal amount on 27 April 2018.
The proceeds from the issue of the notes were used for the partial repurchaseof 8.875% notes due 2013 and repayment of certain bank loans.
In 2009, the Group issued convertible bonds in the amount of $650 million, which bore interest of 7.25% per annum with maturity on 13July2014 Note 20.
These bonds were converted into shares in 2011 Note 20.
In 2009, the Group issued bonds in the total amount of 20,000million Russian roubles, which bear interest of 13.50% per annum and mature on16 October2014.
In 2010, theGroup issued bonds in the amount of 15,000million Russian roubles bearing interest of 9.25% per annum with maturity on 22 March2013 Note 33, and bonds amounting to 15,000million Russian roubles bearing interest of 9.95% per annum with maturity on 26October2015.
In 2011, the Group issued bonds in the total amount of 20,000million Russian roubles, which bear interest of 8.40% per annum and mature on 2 June2016.
Thecurrency and interest rate risk exposures of these transactions were partially economically hedged Note 26.
Repurchase of notes and bonds In 2011, theGroup repurchased $622 million of 8.875% notes due 2013 for a cash consideration of $693 million.
As a result, the Group recognised aloss on extinguishment of debts in the amount of $71 million within gain loss on financial assets and liabilities caption of the consolidated statement of operations for theyear ended 31 December 2011 Note 7.
On 22 June 2011, Evraz Group S. A. made an incentive offer to the holders of 7.25% convertible bonds due 2014 to convert these bonds into GDRs at $21.12 per GDR.
Inaddition, the holders were offered an incentive payment conversion premium of $24,443.89 per bond with the principal amount of $100,000 each.
Thebondholders owning 6,478 bonds accepted theincentivised conversion.
In July and August 2011, EvrazGroupS.
A. additionally converted 21bonds and settled 1 bond by cash.
Theconversion premium paid by Evraz Group S. A. in the amount of$158 million together with $3million of transaction costs were recognised as aloss Note 7.
Evraz Group S. A. issued 30,771,756GDRs representing 10,257,252 ordinary shares.
As such, thecarrying amount of liability amounting to $553million was reclassified into equity.
Covenants reset In 2012, the lenders under certain bank facilities and the holders of the 8.25% guaranteed notes due 2015 approved the requested amendments to the loan agreements and notes removing certain financial restrictions.
The Group incurred $7 million with respect to this covenants reset.
In2010, the Group paid the remaining $29 million of consent fees and legal fees in connection with the covenants reset, which was performed in2009.
Unamortised debt issue costs Unamortised debt issue costs represent agent commission and transaction costs paid by theGroup in relation to the arrangement and reset of loans and notes.
Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 151 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21.
Loans and borrowings continued Unutilised borrowing facilities The Group had the following unutilised borrowing facilities as of 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Unutilised borrowing facilities $1,146 $1,322 $1,010 Loans of disposal groups classied as held for sale At 31 December 2012, the loans relating to the subsidiaries classified as held for sale Note 12 amounted to $79 million, including $77 million of short-term liabilities.
They were included in liabilities directly associated with the assets held for disposal.
Finance lease liabilities The Group has several lease agreements under which it has an option to acquire the leased assets at the end of lease terms ranging from 1 to 21years.
Theestimated remaining useful life of leased assets varies from 1 to 29years.
The leases were accounted for as finance leases in the consolidated financial statements.
The carrying value of theleased assets was as follows as at 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Buildings and constructions $2 $2 $1 Machinery and equipment 15 22 22 Transport and motor vehicles 83 93 Assets under construction 10 $17 $107 $126 The leased assets are included in property, plant and equipment in the consolidated statement of financial position Note 9.
Future minimum lease payments were as follows at 31 December: 2012 2011 2010 Present Present Present value of value of value of Minimum minimum Minimum minimum Minimum minimum lease lease lease lease lease lease US$ million payments payments payments payments payments payments Not later than one year $3 $2 $16 $13 $25 $19 Later than one year and not later than five years 12 9 29 24 41 33 Later than five years 32 3255 18 13 48 39 71 57 Less: amounts representing finance charges 5 9 14 $13 $13 $39 $39 $57 $57 In the years ended 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010, the average interest rates under thefinance lease liabilities were 9.6%, 9.8% and 9.9%.
Employee benets Russian plans Certain Russian subsidiaries of the Group provide regular lifetime pension payments and lump-sum amounts payable at retirement date.
These benefits generally depend on years of service, level of remuneration and amount of pension payment under the collective bargaining agreements.
Other post-employment benefits consist of various compensations and certain non-cash benefits.
The Group funds thebenefits when theamounts of benefits fall due for payment.
In addition, some subsidiaries have defined benefit plans under which contributions are made to aseparately administered non-state pension fund.
The Group matches 100% of the employees contributions to the fund up to 4% of their monthly salary.
TheGroups contributions become payable at the participants retirement dates.
Defined contribution plans represent payments made by the Group to the Russian state pension, social insurance, medical insurance and unemployment funds at the statutory rates in force, based on gross salary payments.
Ukrainian plans The Ukrainian subsidiaries make regular contributions to the State Pension Fund thereby compensating preferential pensions paid by the fund to employees who worked under harmful and hard conditions.
The amount of such pension depends on years of service and salary.
In 2010 and 2011, these preferential pensions were partially funded by the State Pension Fund.
TheUkrainian subsidiaries gradually increased these contributions and starting from 2012 they pay 100% of preferential pensions.
In addition, employees receive lump-sum payments on retirement and other benefits under collective labour agreements.
These benefits are based on years of service and level of compensation.
All these payments are considered as defined benefit plans.
152 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 23.
Employee benets continued US and Canadian plans The Groups subsidiaries in the USA and Canada have defined benefit pension plans that cover specified eligible employees.
Benefits are based on pensionable years of service, pensionable compensation, or a combination of both depending on theindividual plan.
Certain employees that were hired after specified dates are no longer eligible to participate in the defined benefit plans.
Those employees are instead enrolled in defined contribution plans and receive a contribution funded by the Groups subsidiaries equal to 27% of annual wages, including applicable bonuses.
The defined contribution plans are funded annually, and participants benefits vest after three years of service.
Thesubsidiaries also offer qualified Thrift 401 k plans to all of their eligible employees.
Other plans Defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans are maintained by thesubsidiaries located in South Africa, Italy and the Czech Republic.
Dened contribution plans The Groups expenses under defined contribution plans were as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Expense under defined contribution plans $412 $404 $257 Dened benefit plans The Russian, Ukrainian and other defined benefit plans are mostly unfunded and theUS and Canadian plans are partially funded.
The components of net benefit expense recognised in the consolidated statement of operations for the years ended 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010 and amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position as of 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010 for the defined benefit plans were as follows: Net benefit expense recognised in cost of sales and general and administrative expenses Year ended 31 December 2012 US Russian Ukrainian & Canadian Other US$ million plans plans plans plans Total Current service cost $ 6 $ 3 $ 20 $ $ 29 Interest cost on benefit obligation 17 8 33 2 60 Expected return on plan assets 32 32 Net actuarial gains losses recognised in the year 9 1 12 22 Past service cost 3 1 4 Net benefit expense $ 35 $ 12 $ 34 $ 2 $ 83 Year ended 31 December 2011 US Russian Ukrainian & Canadian Other US$ million plans plans plans plans Total Current service cost $ 7 $ 5 $ 17 $ $ 29 Interest cost on benefit obligation 16 9 33 2 60 Expected return on plan assets 32 32 Net actuarial gains losses recognised in the year 9 5 14 Past service cost 1 12 1 12 Net benefit expense $ 31 $ 2 $ 24 $ 2 $ 59 Year ended 31 December 2010 US Russian Ukrainian & Canadian Other US$ million plans plans plans plans Total Current service cost $ 5 $ 5 $ 14 $ 1 $ 25 Interest cost on benefit obligation 16 8 34 2 60 Expected return on plan assets 28 28 Net actuarial gains losses recognised in the year 3 4 7 Past service cost 6 2 1 5 Minimum funding requirements 1 1 Curtailment gain loss 1 1 Net benefit expense $ 18 $ 15 $ 23 $ 3 $ 59 Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 153 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23.
Employee benets continued Actual return on plan assets was as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Actual return on plan assets including: $50 $1 $44 US & Canadian plans 50 144 benefit liability 31 December 2012 US Russian Ukrainian & Canadian Other US$ million plans plans plans plans Total Benefit obligation $251 $68 $793 $3 $1,115 Plan assets 1 537 538 250 68 256 3 577 Unrecognised net actuarial gains losses 88 12 232 332 Unrecognised past service cost 9 1 10 Benefit asset 39 39 Benefit liability $171 $57 $63 $3 $294 31 December 2011 US Russian Ukrainian & Canadian Other US$ million plans plans plans plans Total Benefit obligation $203 $65 $700 $21 $989 Plan assets 1 470 471 202 65 230 21 518 Unrecognised net actuarial gains losses 68 8 185 261 Unrecognised past service cost 10 2 1 11 Benefit asset 28 28 Benefit liability $144 $59 $72 $21 $296 31 December 2010 US Russian Ukrainian & Canadian Other US$ million plans plans plans plans Total Benefit obligation $192 $77 $629 $24 $922 Plan assets 1 463 464 191 77 166 24 458 Unrecognised net actuarial gains losses 68 2 95 165 Unrecognised past service cost 12 10 1 3 Benefit asset 19 19 Benefit liability $135 $65 $91 $24 $315 154 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 23.
Employee benets continued Movements in benefit obligation US Russian Ukrainian & Canadian Other US$ million plans plans plans plans Total At 31 December 2009 $173 $72 $562 $20 $827 Interest cost on benefit obligation 16 8 34 2 60 Current service cost 5 5 14 1 25 Past service cost 4 4 Benefits paid 13 6 37 1 57 Actuarial gains losses on benefit obligation 17 2 39 54 Disposal of subsidiaries 1 1 Translation difference 1 17 2 18 At 31 December 2010 192 77 629 24 922 Interest cost on benefit obligation 16 9 33 2 60 Current service cost 7 5 17 29 Past service cost 1 24 3 20 Benefits paid 15 7 39 1 62 Actuarial gains losses on benefit obligation 14 5 65 84 Translation difference 12 8 4 24 At 31 December 2011 203 65 700 21 989 Interest cost on benefit obligation 17 8 33 2 60 Current service cost 6 3 20 29 Past service cost 5 1 6 Benefits paid 16 8 44 2 70 Actuarial gains losses on benefit obligation 24 5 75 1 105 Disposal of subsidiaries 1 5 6 Reclassification to liabilities directly associated with disposal groups classified as held for sale 18 18 Translation difference 13 8 1 20 At 31 December 2012 $251 $68 $793 $3 $1,115 Changes in the fair value of plan assets US Russian Ukrainian & Canadian Other US$ million plans plans plans plans Total At 31 December 2009 $1 $ $403 $ $404 Expected return on plan assets 28 28 Contributions of employer 13 6 37 1 57 Benefits paid 13 6 37 1 57 Actuarial gains losses on plan assets 16 16 Minimum funding requirements 1 1 Translation difference 15 15 At 31 December 2010 1 463 464 Expected return on plan assets 32 32 Contributions of employer 15 7 52 1 75 Benefits paid 15 7 39 1 62 Actuarial gains losses on plan assets 31 31 Translation difference 7 7 At 31 December 2011 1 470 471 Expected return on plan assets 32 32 Contributions of employer 16 8 54 2 80 Benefits paid 16 8 44 2 70 Actuarial gains losses on plan assets 18 18 Translation difference 7 7 At 31 December 2012 $1 $ $537 $ $538 The amount of contributions expected to be paid to the defined benefit plans during 2013 approximates $66 million.
Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 155 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23.
Employee benets continued The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets were as follows at 31 December: 2012 2011 2010 US & Canadian plans: Equity funds and investment trusts 83% 81% 86% Corporate bonds and notes 13% 11% 11% Property 2% 3% 0% Cash 2% 5% 3% The following table is a summary of the present value of the benefit obligation, fair value of the plan assets and experience adjustments for the current year and previous four annual periods.
US$ million 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Defined benefit obligation $1,115 $989 $922 $827 $717 Plan assets 538 471 464 404 325 Deficit 577 518 458 423 392 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 122 137 60 54 38 Experience adjustments on plan assets 3 12 9 24 16 The principal assumptions used in determining pension obligations for the Groups plans are shown below: 2012 2011 2010 US & US & US & Russian Ukrainian Canadian Other Russian Ukrainian Canadian Other Russian Ukrainian Canadian Other plans plans plans plans plans plans plans plans plans plans plans plans Discount rate 7% 14.0% 3.9-5.1% 2.0-8.8% 8% 14.0% 4.0-5.3% 4.0-8.8% 8% 12.6% 5.1-5.8% 3.9-8.3% Expected rate of return on 8% 6.5-7.0% 12% 0.9-7.1% 12% 0.9-7.3% assets Future benefits increases 8% 8% 2% 8% 8% 3.0% 8% 8% 3% Future salary increase 8% 8% 3.1-3.5% 3% 8% 8% 3.0-3.1% 2.0-6.3% 8% 8% 3.0-3.2% 2.0-6.5% Healthcare costs increase rate 6-7% 7.0-7.3% 6.5-7%7.3-7.5%6.8-10%6.5-7% The expected long-term rate of return on defined benefit pension plan assets represents theweighted-average asset return for each forecasted asset class return over several market cycles.
A one percentage point change in the assumed rate of increase in healthcare costs would have insignificant effects on the Groups current service cost and the defined benefit obligation.
Share-based payments On 14 December 2010, 13 October 2011 and 6 September 2012, the Group adopted Incentive Plans under which certain senior executives and employees participants could be gifted shares of the parent company upon vesting.
The vesting date for each tranche occurs within the90-day period after announcement of the annual results.
The expected vesting dates of the awards outstanding at 31 December 2012 are presented below: Incentive Plan Incentive Plan Incentive Plan Number of Shares of EVRAZ plc 2012 2011 2010 11 April 2013 2,857,558 792,969 656,697 29 March 2014 2,857,558 1,094,426 29 March 2015 3,810,363 9,525,479 1,887,395 656,697 The plans are administrated by the Board of Directors of the Company.
The Board of Directors has the right to accelerate vesting of the grant.
In the event of a participants employment termination, unless otherwise determined by the Board or by a decision of theauthorised person, a participant loses the entitlement for the shares that were not gifted up to thedate of termination.
There have been no modifications or cancellations to theplans during 20102012.
In2011, after the Groups reorganisation Notes 1 and 20, the shares of Evraz Group S. A. which were granted to the participants, have been substituted by the shares of EVRAZ plc.
156 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 24.
Share-based payments continued The Group accounted for share-based compensation at fair value pursuant to therequirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The weighted average fair value of share-based awards granted in 2012 was $3.41 per share of EVRAZ plc in 2011 and 2010 $48.26 and $102.07 per share of Evraz Group S. A. respectively.
The fair value of these awards was estimated at the date of grant and measured at the market price of the shares of a parent company reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid during the vesting period.
The following inputs, including assumptions, were used in the valuation: Incentive Plan Incentive Plan Incentive Plan 2012 2011 2010 Dividend yield % 1.9 5.4 3.6 4.8 1.2 1.5 Expected life years 0.6 2.6 0.5 2.5 0.5 2.5 Market prices of the shares of EVRAZ plc 2011 and 2010: Evraz Group S. A. at the grant dates $3.61 $51.57 $103.83 The following table illustrates the number of, and movements in, share-based awards during the years.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the share-based awards outstanding as of 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010 was 1.2, 1.2 and 1.4 years, respectively.
In the years ended 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010, expense arising from the equity-settled share-based compensations was as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions $22 $23 $2 In 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Group paid $Nil, $1 million and $3 million, respectively, relating to the cash-settled share-based awards under the incentive plans which were in place before 2010.
Provisions At 31 December the provisions were as follows: 2012 2011 2010 US$ million Non-current Current Non-current Current Non-current Current Site restoration and decommissioning costs $252 $14 $283 $27 $277 $28 Legal claims 12 15 17 Other provisions 56 2 1129 $257 $32 $285 $53 $279 $54 Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 157 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25.
Provisions continued In the years ended 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010, the movement in provisions was as follows: Site restoration and decommissioning Legal Other US$ million costs claims provisions Total At 31 December 2009 $190 $6 $15 $211 Additional provisions 23 18 12 53 Increase from passage of time 15 15 Effect of change in the discount rate 20 20 Effect of changes in estimated costs and timing 55 55 Utilised in the year 5 5 15 25 Unused amounts reversed 2 1 3 Translation difference 7 7 At 31 December 2010 305 17 11 333 Additional provisions 45 20 19 84 Increase from passage of time 19 19 Effect of change in the discount rate 8 8 Effect of changes in estimated costs and timing 9 1 10 Utilised in the year 12 12 14 38 Unused amounts reversed 2 8 2 12 Translation difference 28 1 1 30 At 31 December 2011 310 15 13 338 Additional provisions 27 18 21 66 Increase from passage of time 19 19 Effect of change in the discount rate 35 35 Effect of changes in estimated costs and timing 1 4 5 Utilised in the year 7 11 20 38 Unused amounts reversed 6 6 1 13 Reclassification to liabilities directly associated with disposal groups classified as held for sale 120 1 2 123 Translation difference 9 1 10 At 31 December 2012 $266 $12 $11 $289 Site restoration costs Under the legislation, mining companies and steel mills have obligations to restore mining sites and contaminated land.
The respective liabilities were measured based on estimates of restoration costs which are expected to be incurred in the future discounted at the annual rate ranging from 3.7% to 14% in 2012 and 2011 2010: 6.1% to 13%.
Other long-term liabilities Other long-term liabilities consisted of the following as of 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Contingent consideration payable for theacquisition of Stratcor $12 $16 $24 Deferred consideration payable for theacquisition of Inprom Note 4 10 11 21 Dividends payable under cumulative preference shares of a subsidiary to arelated party 14 14 14 Employee income participation plans and compensations 7 23 Tax liabilities 18 26 33 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments Note 21 115 209 38 Other liabilities 16 16 24 192 294 157 Less: current portion Note 27 22 9 14 $170 $285 $143 Contingent consideration payable Contingent consideration represents additional payments for the acquisition of Stratcor in2006.
This consideration could be paid each year up to 2019.
The payments depend on thedeviation of the average prices for vanadium pentoxide from certain levels and the amounts payable for each year are limited to maximum amounts.
In 2012, theGroup was not required to pay this consideration due to the movements in the vanadium pentoxide market relative to the levels set in the agreement.
In 2011 and 2010, the Group paid $3million and $16 million, respectively.
158 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 26.
Other long-term liabilities continued Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments In 20092011, the Group issued rouble-denominated bonds in the total amount of 70,000million Russian roubles Note 21.
To manage the currency exposure, the Group concluded currency and interest rate swap contracts under which it agreed to deliver USdollar-denominated interest payments at the rates ranging from 4.45% to 8.90% per annum plus the notional amount totalling $2,177 million, in exchange for rouble-denominated interest payments plus the notional amount totalling 63,790 million roubles $2,100 million at the exchange rate as of 31December 2012.
Theexchange is exercised on approximately the same dates as thepayments under thebonds.
The swap contracts are summarised in the table below.
TheGroup accounted for these derivatives at fair value which was determined using valuation techniques.
In 2012, 2011 and 2010, the change in fair value of the derivatives of $96million, $ 176 million and $ 27 million, respectively, together with a realised gain on the swap transactions, amounting to $81million, $66million and $31 million, respectively, was recognised within gain loss on financial assets and liabilities in the consolidated statement of operations Note 7.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables consisted of the following as of 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Trade accounts payable $1,100 $1,147 $880 Accrued payroll 249 254 229 Other long-term obligations with current maturities Note 26 22 914 Other payables 41 50 50 $1,412 $1,460 $1,173 The maturity profile of the accounts payable is shown in Note 29.
Other taxes payable Taxes payable were mainly denominated in roubles and consisted of the following as of 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 VAT $87 $81 $90 Social insurance taxes 61 53 40 Property tax 11 17 14 Land tax 11 10 10 Personal income tax 14 12 10 Other taxes, fines and penalties 11 15 16 $195 $188 $180 29.
Financial risk management objectives and policies Credit Risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Financial instruments that potentially expose the Group to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and trade accounts receivable.
To manage credit risk related to cash, the Group maintains its available cash, mainly in USdollars, in reputable international banks and major Russian banks.
Management periodically reviews the creditworthiness of the banks in which it deposits cash.
The Groups trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
The Group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities.
In 2012, themajor customers were Russian Railways and Enbridge Energy Partners 3.1%and 2.4% of total sales, respectively.
Part of the Groups sales is made on terms of letter of credit.
Inaddition, the Group requires prepayments from certain customers.
The Group does not require collateral in respect of trade and other receivables, except when a customer applies for credit terms which are longer than normal.
In this case, the Group requires bank guarantees or other collateral.
The Group has developed standard credit terms and constantly monitors the status of accounts receivable collection and the creditworthiness of the customers.
Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 159 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Credit risk continued Certain of the Groups long-standing Russian customers for auxiliary products, such as heat and electricity, represent municipal enterprises and governmental organisations that experience financial difficulties.
The significant part of doubtful debts allowance consists of receivables from such customers.
The Group has no practical ability to terminate the supply to these customers and negotiates with regional and municipal authorities the terms of recovery of these receivables.
At 31 December the maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the carrying amount of financial assets, which is disclosed below.
US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Restricted deposits at banks Notes13and 18 $4 $22 $22 Financial instruments included in other non-current and current assets Notes13and 18 51 10 6 Long-term and short-term investments Notes 13 and 18 733 57 76 Trade and other receivables Notes13and15 899 974 1,216 Loans receivable 31 62 18 Receivables from related parties Notes13 and 16 12 8124 Cash and cash equivalents Note 19 1,320 801 683 $3,050 $1,934 $2,145 Receivables from related parties in the table above do not include prepayments in theamount of $Nil, $Nil and $2 million as of 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
The ageing analysis of trade and other receivables, loans receivable and receivables from related parties at 31 December is presented in the table below.
2012 2011 2010 Gross Gross Gross US$ million amount Impairment amount Impairment amount Impairment Not past due $759 $ 16 $846 $ 5 $1,098 $ 8 Past due 284 85 306 103 377 109 less than six months 198 11 204 24 232 16 between six months and one year 20 11 30 16 27 10 over one year 66 63 72 63 118 83 $1,043 $ 101 $1,152 $ 108 $1,475 $ 117 In the years ended 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010, the movement in allowance for doubtful accounts was as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 At 1 January $ 108 $ 117 $ 92 Charge for the year 14 45 45 Utilised 25 47 19 Translation difference 4 71 At 31 December $ 101 $ 108 $ 117 Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidityis to ensure that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, withoutincurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and borrowing facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group prepares a rolling 12-month financial plan which ensures that the Group has sufficient cash on demand to meet expected operational expenses, financial obligations and investing activities as they arise.
The Group exercises a daily monitoring of cash proceeds and payments.
TheGroup maintains credit lines and overdraft facilities that can be drawn down to meet short-term financing needs.
If necessary, the Group refinances its short-term debt by long-term borrowings.
The Group also uses forecasts to monitor potential and actual financial covenants compliance issues.
Where compliance is at risk, the Group considers options including debt repayment, refinancing or covenant reset.
TheGrouphas developed standard payment periods in respect of trade accounts payable and monitors the timeliness of payments to its suppliers and contractors.
Thefollowing tables summarise the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments, including interest payments.
160 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 29.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Liquidity risk continued Year ended 31 December 2012 On Less than 3 to 12 1 to 2 2 to 5 After US$ million demand 3 months months years years 5 years Total Fixed-rate debt Loans and borrowings Principal $7 $501 $795 $678 $2,393 $1,380 $5,754 Interest 23 404 396 647 58 1,528 Finance lease liabilities 12483 18 Financial instruments included in long-term liabilities 14 3 21 100 24 162 Total xed-rate debt 7 539 1,204 1,099 3,148 1,465 7,462 Variable-rate debt Loans and borrowings Principal 158 119 112 359 1,601 76 2,425 Interest 2268 84 121 7 302 Total variable-rate debt 158 141 180 443 1,722 83 2,727 Non-interest bearing debt Financial instruments included in other liabilities 1 3228 Trade and other payables 266 809 66 1,141 Payables to related parties 218 39 257 Amounts payable under put options for shares of subsidiaries 4 6 10 Dividends payable 8 8 Total non-interest bearing debt 492 849 70922 1,424 $657 $1,529 $1,454 $1,551 $4,872 $1,550 $11,613 Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 161 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Liquidity risk continued Year ended 31 December 2011 On Less than 3 to 12 1 to 2 2 to 5 After 5 US$ million demand 3 months months years years years Total Fixed-rate debt Loans and borrowings Principal $4 $1 $27 $1,019 $2,338 $1,374 $4,763 Interest 23 420 395 741 159 1,738 Finance lease liabilities 134 10 3 21 Financial instruments included in long-term liabilities 1 1 6 53 178 23 262 Total xed-rate debt 5 26 456 1,471 3,267 1,559 6,784 Variable-rate debt Loans and borrowings Principal 158 213 129 268 1,671 56 2,495 Interest 22 6882 148 8 328 Finance lease liabilities 4878 27 Total variable-rate debt 158 239 205 357 1,827 64 2,850 Non-interest bearing debt Financial instruments included in other liabilities 4 4 Trade and other payables 238 949 10 1,197 Payables to related parties 67 31 98 Amounts payable under put options for shares of subsidiaries 9 11 20 Dividends payable 9 9 Total non-interest bearing debt 323 980 10 11 4 1,328 $486 $1,245 $671 $1,828 $5,105 $1,627 $10,962 162 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 29.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Liquidity risk continued Year ended 31 December 2010 On Less than 3 to 12 1 to 2 2 to 5 After US$ million demand 3 months months years years 5 years Total Fixed-rate debt Loans and borrowings Principal $7 $20 $124 $25 $5,039 $538 $5,753 Interest 55 462 509 955 123 2,104 Finance lease liabilities 12373 16 Financial instruments included in long-term liabilities 1 2 11 8 60 21 103 Total xed-rate debt 878 599 545 6,061 685 7,976 Variable-rate debt Loans and borrowings Principal 235 224 15 283 1,487 20 2,264 Interest 19 56 62 89 4 230 Finance lease liabilities 5 17 12 19 2 55 Total variable-rate debt 235 248 88 357 1,595 26 2,549 Non-interest bearing debt Financial instruments included in other liabilities 5 5 Trade and other payables 104 795 31 930 Payables to related parties 177 37 2 216 Amounts payable under put options for shares of subsidiaries 6 21 27 Dividends payable 13 13 Total non-interest bearing debt 300 832 33 21 5 1,191 $543 $1,158 $720 $902 $7,677 $716 $11,716 Payables to related parties in the tables above do not include advances received in theamount of $Nil, $Nil and $1 million as of 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Market Risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices, will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures, while optimising the return on risk.
Interest rate risk The Group borrows on both a fixed and variable rate basis and has other interest-bearing liabilities, such as finance lease liabilities and otherobligations.
The Group incurs interest rate risk on liabilities with variable interest rates.
The Groups treasury function performs analysis of current interest rates.
In case of changes inmarket fixed or variable interest rates management may consider the refinancing of a particular debt on more favourable terms.
The Group does not have any financial assets with variable interest rates.
Fair value sensitivity analysis for xed rate instruments The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Therefore, a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect the Groups profits.
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets as assets available for sale.
Therefore, a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect the Groups equity.
Cash ow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments Based on the analysis of exposure during the years presented, reasonably possible changes in floating interest rates at the reporting date would affect profit before tax PBT by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 163 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Market risk continued Interest rate risk continued Cash ow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments continued In estimating reasonably possible changes the Group assessed thevolatility of interest rates during the reporting periods.
2012 2011 2010 Basis Effect on Basis Effect on Basis Effect on points PBT points PBT points PBT US$ US$ US$ millions millions millions Liabilities denominated in US dollars Decrease in LIBOR 2 $ 6 $1 25 $4 Increase in LIBOR 2 6 1 100 17 Liabilities denominated in euro Decrease in EURIBOR 4 15 25 1 Increase in EURIBOR 4$ 15 $ 100 $ 2 Currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective Groups subsidiaries.
The currencies in which these transactions are denominated are primarily USdollars, Canadian dollars and euro.
The Group does not have formal arrangements to mitigate currency risks of the Groups operations.
However, management believes that the Group is partly secured from currency risks as foreign currency denominated sales are used to cover repayment of foreign currency .
The Groups exposure to currency risk determined as the net monetary position in therespective currencies was as follows at 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 USD RUB $ 1,478 $4,402 $3,419 EUR RUB 382 321 283 EUR USD 109 127 137 USD CAD 24 995 1,180 EUR CZK 4 35 38 USD CZK 176 229 282 USD ZAR 9 14 66 EUR ZAR 69 77 41 USD UAH 168 156 1 RUB UAH 28 1 43 164 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 29.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Market risk continued Currency risk continued Sensitivity analysis The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonably possible changes in therespective currencies, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax.
In estimating reasonably possible changes the Group assessed the volatility of foreign exchange rates during the reporting periods.
The impact of currency risk on the fair value of these derivatives is disclosed below.
2012 2011 2010 Change in Effect on Change in Effect on Change in Effect on exchange rate PBT exchange rate PBT exchange rate PBT % US$ millions % US$ millions % US$ millions USD RUB 11.09 271 11.36 252 9.70 167 11.09 217 11.36 201 9.70 137 Fair value of financial instruments The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: r Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets and liabilities: r Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and r Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The carrying amounts of financial instruments, such as cash, short-term and long-term investments, short-term accounts receivable and payable, short-term loans receivable and payable and promissory notes, approximate their fair value.
Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 165 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Fair value of financial instruments continued At 31 December the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value: 2012 2011 2010 US$ million Level 1Level 2Level 3Level 1Level 2Level 3Level 1Level 2Level 3 Assets measured at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets 21 17 37 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments 2 5 Liabilities measured at fair value Liability at fair value through profit or loss 16 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments Note26 115 209 38 Deferred consideration payable for theacquisition of Inprom Note26 10 11 21 Contingent consideration payable for theacquisition of Stratcor Note 26 12 16 24 Amounts payable under put options for shares of subsidiaries 9 6 During the reporting period, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into and out of Level3 fair value measurements.
The following table shows financial instruments which carrying amounts differ from fair values at 31 December.
The fair value of convertible bonds and long-term bank loans was calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at theGroups market rates of interest at the reporting dates.
The discount rates used for valuation of financial instruments were as follows: Currency in which financial instruments are denominated 2012 2011 2010 USD 7.5 8.6% 8.2 9.1% 7.7 8.3% EUR 2.9% 3.2% 2.8% RUB 9.2% 9.7% 12.0% Capital management Capital includes equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent entity.
Revaluation surplus which is included in capital is not subject to capital management because of its nature.
The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise the return to shareholders.
The Board of Directors reviews the Groups performance and establishes key performance indicators.
In addition, the Group and certain of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements loans and bonds covenants which are used for capital monitoring.
There were no changes in the objectives, policies and processes during 2012.
166 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued year ended 31 December 2012 29.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Capital management continued The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it by the issue of new shares, dividend payments to shareholders, and the purchase of treasury shares.
Inaddition, theGroup monitors distributable profits on a regular basis and determines theamounts and timing of dividend payments.
The capital requirements imposed by certain loan agreements include a $2,000 million minimum representing consolidated equity of Evraz Group S. A. less goodwill.
In 20102012, the Group was in compliance with this requirement.
Non-cash transactions Transactions that did not require the use of cash or cash equivalents were as follows in theyears ended 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Liabilities for purchases of property, plant and equipment $144 $93 $70 Purchases of property, plant and equipment settled by an offset with accounts receivable 10 12 Loan issued to a partner of the Mezhegey coal field project 7 36 Purchase of a non-controlling interest in theMezhegey coal field project settled by anoffset with a loan due to theGroup Note 4 40 Carrying amount of convertible bonds transferred to equity upon debt conversion Note 21 553 31.
Commitments and contingencies Operating environment of the Group The Group is one of the largest vertically integrated steel producers globally and the largest steel producer in Russia.
The Groups major subsidiaries are located in Russia, Ukraine, the European Union, the USA, Canada and the Republic of South Africa.
Russia, Ukraine and the Republic of South Africa are considered to be emerging markets with higher economic and political risks.
Steel consumption is affected by the cyclical nature of demand for steel products and the sensitivity of that demand to worldwide general economic conditions.
The global economic recession resulted in asignificantly lower demand for steel products and decreased profitability.
In 2012, the sovereign debt problems in Europe added extra volatility to commodity and financial markets and led to an additional uncertainty in the process of recovery of the global economy.
The global economic climate continues to be unstable and this may negatively affect theGroups results and financial position in amanner not currently determinable.
Taxation Russian and Ukrainian tax, currency and customs legislation is subject to varying interpretations, and changes, which can occur frequently.
Managements interpretation of such legislation as applied to the transactions and activity of the Group may be challenged by the relevant regional and federal authorities.
Recent events suggest that the tax authorities are taking a more assertive position in their interpretation of the legislation and assessments and, as aresult, it is possible that transactions and activities that have not been challenged in the past may be challenged.
As such, significant additional taxes, penalties and interest may be assessed.
Management believes that it has paid or accrued all taxes that are applicable.
Where uncertainty exists, the Group has accrued tax liabilities based on managements best estimate of the probable outflow of resources embodying economic benefits, which will be required to settle these liabilities.
Possible liabilities which were identified by management at the end of the reporting period as those that can be subject to different interpretations of the tax laws and other regulations and are not accrued in these financial statements could be up to approximately $19 million.
Contractual commitments At 31 December 2012, the Group had contractual commitments for the purchase of production equipment and construction works for an approximate amount of $579million.
In 2010, the Group concluded an agreement for the supply of oxygen, nitrogen and argon by athird party for a period of 20 years.
The contractualprice comprises a fixed component and a variable component.
The total amount of the fixed component approximates 252million euro.
The agreement is within the scope of IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease.
At31 December 2012, thelease had not commenced.
Social commitments The Group is involved in a number of social programmes aimed to support education, healthcare and social infrastructure development in towns where the Groups assets are located.
In 2013, the Group plans to spend approximately $159 million under these programmes.
Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 167 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31.
Commitments and contingencies continued Environmental protection In the course of the Groups operations, the Group may be subject to environmental claims and legal proceedings.
The quantification of environmental exposures requires an assessment of many factors, including changing laws and regulations, improvements in environmental technologies, the quality of information available related to specific sites, the assessment stage of each site investigation, preliminary findings and the length of time involved in remediation or settlement.
Management believes that any pending environmental claims or proceedings will nothave a material adverse effect on its financial position and results of operations.
In addition, the Group has committed to various environmental protection programmes covering periods from 2013 to 2022, under which the Group will perform works aimed at reductions in environmental pollution and contamination.
The costs of implementing these programmes are estimated at $267 million.
Legal proceedings The Group has been and continues to be the subject of legal proceedings, none of which has had, individually or in aggregate, a significant effect on the Groups operations or financial position.
Possible liabilities which were identified by the Group at the end of the reporting period as those that can be subject to different interpretations of legislation and are not accrued in these financial statements could be up to approximately $27million.
In 2008, the Competition Commission initiated a complaint against various steel manufacturers, including EVRAZ Highveld Steel and Vanadium Corporation Limited EHSVL, alleging that EHSVL then Highveld Steel and Vanadium Corporation was involved, whether directly or indirectly, in the fixing of the selling prices and trading conditions for flat steel products.
It was further alleged that EHSVL contravened the Competition Act by engaging in the exchange of information with a competitor through information exchanges and meetings of the South African Iron and Steel Institute or its committees.
In March 2012, the Commission referred the complaints to the South African Competition Tribunal for prosecution.
No decision has yet been announced by the Competition Tribunal as to whether it will decide to impose any penalty against EHSVL or, if imposed, the amount of any such fine.
Should the Competition Commission be successful, which is not expected by management, it could raise a maximum penalty of R554 million $65 million.
Management believes that EHSVL acted in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Thus, no provision for this matter has been accrued as of 31 December 2012.
TheGroup has cooperated with the Competition Commission throughout the investigation and intends to continue to do so.
Auditors remuneration The remuneration of the Groups auditor in respect of the services provided to the Group was as follows.
US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Audit of the parent company of the Group $2 $4 $2 Audit of the subsidiaries 5 76 Total assurance services 7 11 8 Services in connection with capital market transactions 31 Other non-audit services 1 21 Total other services 1 52 $8 $16 $10 33.
Subsequent events Acquisition of a controlling interest in Corber In January 2013, the Group obtained control over Corber, which owns 81.95% interest in JSC Raspadskaya Note 11.
Extension of the notes due 2013 In March 2013, the holders of 9.25% rouble-denominated notes received an option to accept a new coupon of 8.75% per annum till 20 March 2015 or put the notes back to the Group at a nominal value.
By 26 March 2013, the date of the expiration of the option, the Group re-purchased back the notes totalling 12,265 million roubles $399 million at the exchange rate as of the date of the transaction.
The remaining notes with the aggregate principal amount of 2,735 million roubles approximately $89 million continue to be traded on the Moscow Exchange.
The Group has a right to resell the repurchased notes on the market at any time and at its own discretion.
Timir Iron Ore project On 3 April 2013, the Group acquired a 51% ownership interest in the joint venture with Alrosa for the development of 4 iron ore deposits in the southern part of the Yakutia region in Russia.
The Groups consideration for this stake amounts to 4,950 million roubles approximately $160million payable in installments through 15 July 2014.
Total investments in the first phase of the Timir project are estimated at $1.8 billion during the period from 2013 to 2018.
The Group and Alrosa are expected to finance the Timir project on a pro rata basis.
