Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 179 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Additional Information Glossary Term Denition Operations and Products API-certied American Petroleum Institute certified API grade products Beam A structural element.
Beams are characterised by their profile the shape of their cross-section.
One of the most common types of steel beam is the I-beam, also known as H-beam, or W-beam wide-flange beam, or a universal beam column.
Beams are widely used in the construction industry and are available in various standard sizes, e. g. 40-k beam, 60Sh beam, 70Sh beam as mentioned in this report Billet A usually square, semi-finished steel product obtained by continuous casting or rolling of blooms.
Sections, rails, wire rod and other rolled products are made from billets Blast furnace The blast furnace is the classic production unit to reduce iron ore to molten iron, known as hot metal.
It operates as a counter-current shaft system, where iron ore and coke is charged at the top.
While this charge descends towards the bottom, ascending carbon containing gases and coke reduces the iron ore to liquid iron.
To increase efficiency and productivity, hot air often enriched with oxygen is blown into the bottom of the blast furnace.
In order to save coke, coal or other carbon containing materials are sometimes injected with this hot air Browneld An exploration or development project which is either on industrial lands that are now vacant or underused or located within an existing operation, with the ability to share infrastructure and management By-product A secondary product which results from a manufacturing process or chemical reaction Capex Capital expenditure CFR Cost and freight, the seller must pay the costs and freight to bring the goods to the port of destination.
However, risk is transferred to the buyer once the goods are loaded on the vessel.
Insurance for the goods is not included Channel U-shaped section for construction CIF Cost, Insurance and Freight, the same as CFR except that the seller must in addition procure and pay for the insurance Coke A product made by baking coal without oxygen at high temperatures.
Unwanted gases are driven out of the coal.
The unwanted gases can be used as fuels or processed further to recover valuable chemicals.
The resulting material coke has a strong porous structure which makes it ideal for use in a blast furnace Coke battery A group of coke ovens operating as a unit and connected by common walls Coking coal Highly volatile coal used to manufacture coke Concentrate A product resulting from iron ore coal enrichment, with a high grade of extracted mineral Construction products Include beams, channels, angles, rebars, wire rods, wire and other goods Converter A type of furnace that uses pure oxygen in the process of producing steel from cast iron or dry mix Crude steel Steel in its solidified state directly after casting.
This is then further processed by rolling or other treatments, which can change its properties Debottlenecking Increasing capacity of a supply or production chain through the modification of existing equipment or infrastructure to improve efficiency ECP Eurocommercial Paper Electric arc furnace A furnace used in the steelmaking process which heats charged material via an electric arc.
Flat products or Flat-rolled steel products Include commodity plate, specialty plate and other products in flat shape such as sheet, strip and tin plate Greeneld The development or exploration of a new project not previously examined Grinding balls Balls used to grind material by impact and pressure Head-hardened rails High strength rails with head hardened by heat treatment 180 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Additional Information Glossary Continued Term Denition Iron ore Chemical compounds of iron with other elements, mainly oxygen, silicon, sulphur or carbon.
Only extremely pure rich iron-oxygen compounds are used for steelmaking.
JORC Code The Australasian Joint Ore Reserves Committee, which is widely accepted as a standard for professional reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves Ladle furnace The secondary metallurgy vessel used between steelmaking and casting operations to allow the composition of molten steel to be brought to the required customer specification Lean Lean is philosophy of managing the business that is based on a set of principles that define the way of work Long products Include bars, rods and structural products that are long rather than flat and are produced from blooms or billets Longwall An underground mining process in which the coal face is dug out by a shearer and transported above ground by conveyors.
Lumpy ore Iron ore between 6mm and 30mm in size.
Lump is preferred in the blast furnace as its particle size allows oxygen to circulate around the raw materials and melt them efficiently MENA Middle East and North Africa OCTG pipe Oilfield Casing and Tubing Goods or Oil Country Tubular Goods pipes used in the oil industry Old order New order mining rights Reference terms for South African mining agreements.
Old order mining rights are those licenses which were issued during the apartheid era, for New order mining rights to be awarded operators must collaborate with the Black Economic Empowerment partners OSB technology Open Slag Bath Furnace.
An electric steelmaking furnace, where the electrodes are not submersed, but are operated in a brush arc mode, where the electrode is just above the liquid slag Pellet An enriched form of iron ore shaped into small balls or pellets.
Pellets are used as raw material in the steel making process Pig iron The solidified iron produced from a blast furnace used for steel production.
In liquid form, pig iron is known as hot metal Pipe blank A flat sheet of metal, a semi-finished product, sold to pipemakers to manufacture pipes Plate A long thin square shaped construction element made from slabs Pulverised coal injection PCI A cost-reducing technique in iron-making, where cheaper coal is prepared to replace normal coking coal in the blast furnace.
The coal is pulverised into very small particles before injection into the furnace Railway products Include rails, rail fasteners, wheels, tyres and other goods for the railway sector Raw steam coal Also known as thermal coal.
Mainly used in energy generation Rebar Reinforcing bar, a commodity grade steel used to strengthen concrete in highway and building construction.
Rebar A500SP is a type of reinforcing bar that allows for a reduction in the metallic component of reinforced concrete, thereby significantly lowering construction costs Rolled steel products Products finished in a rolling mill: these include bars, rods, plate, beams etc Rolling mill A machine which converts semi-finished steel into finished steel products by passing them through sets of rotating cylinders which form the steel into finished products SG&A Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Saleable products Products produced by EVRAZ mines or steel mills which are suitable for sale to third parties Self-coverage The raw material requirement of EVRAZs steelmaking facilities fulfilled by EVRAZ owned mines Scrap Iron containing recyclable materials mainly industrial or household waste that is generally remelted and processed into new steel Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 181 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Term Denition Semi-nished products The initial product forms in the steel making process including slabs, blooms, billets and pipe blanks that are further processed into more finished products such as beams, bars, sheets, tubing, etc Shale gas Shale gas is an unconventional natural gas that exists in certain shale formations.
Shale possesses low permeability, and the shale gas boom in recent years reflects the utilisation of modern technology including horizontal drilling, multi stage fracturing and micro seismic monitoring Single-Minute Exchange of Die SMED A production method used to speed up the production process and reduce waste Sinter An iron rich clinker formed by heating iron ore fines and coke in a sinter line.
The materials, in pellet form, combine efficiently in the blast furnace and allow for more consistent and controllable iron manufacture Slab A common type of semi-finished steel product which can be further rolled into sheet and plate products Slag Slag is a byproduct generated when non-ferrous substances in iron ore, limestone and coke are separated from the hot metal in metallurgical production.
Slag is used in cement and fertiliser production as well as for base course material in road construction Steam coal All other types of hard coal not classified as coking coal.
Coal of this type is also commonly referred to as thermal coal Tailings Also called mine dumps, are the materials left over after the process of separating the valuable content from the uneconomic remainder gangue of an ore.
These materials can be reprocessed using new methods to recover additional minerals Titaniferrous ores Ore containing or yielding titanium.
Titaniferous magnetite deposits are a significant source of vanadium Tubular products Include large diameter line pipes, ERW pipes and casings, seamless pipes and other tubular products Vanadium A grey metal that is normally used as an alloying agent for iron and steel.
It is also used to strengthen titanium based alloys Vanadium pentoxide The chemical compound with the formula V2O5: this orange solid is the most important compound of vanadium.
Upon heating, it reversibly loses oxygen Vanadium slag Vanadium slag produced from pig iron in the converter shop and used as a raw material by producers of ferroalloys and vanadium products Social Responsibility ISO 14001 The International Standardisation Organisations standard for environmental management systems ISO 9001:2008 The International Standardisation Organisations standard for a quality management system LTIFR Lost time injury frequency rate, which represents the number of lost time injuries 1 day or more of absence divided by the total number of hours worked expressed in millions of hours OHSAS 18001 The internationally recognised assessment specification for occupational health and safety management systems 182 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 183 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 184 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes Additional Information Contact Details Registered Name and Number Electronic shareholder communications EVRAZ plc Company No.
07784342 EVRAZ uses its website www.
com as its primary means of communication with its shareholders provided that the shareholder Registered Ofce has agreed or is deemed to have agreed that communications may 5th Floor, 6 St. Andrew Street, London EC4A 3AE be sent or supplied in that manner in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Alexander Abramov Electronic communications allow shareholders to access information Duncan Baxter instantly as well as helping EVRAZ reduce its costs and its impact Alexander Frolov on the environment.
Shareholders can sign up for electronic Karl Gruber communications via Computershares Investor Centre website at Alexander Izosimov www.
Shareholders that have consented or Sir Michael Peat are deemed to have consented to electronic communications can Olga Pokrovskaya revoke their consent at any time by contacting the Companys registrar, Terry Robinson Computershare.
Eugene Shvidler Eugene Tenenbaum Secretary TMF Corporate Administration Services Limited Investor Relations Tel: London: 44 0 207 832 8990 Moscow: 7 495 232 1370 ir@evraz.
com Auditors Ernst & Young LLP Solicitors Linklaters LLP Registrars For information about proxy voting, dividends and to report changes in personal details, shareholders should contact the Companys registrar: Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS13 8AE United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 870 873 5848 Fax: 44 0 870 703 6101 Email: webqueries@computershare.
co. uk Unsolicited telephone calls and correspondence Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports about the Company.
These are typically from overseas-based brokers who target US or UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turns out to be worthless or high risk shares.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms and the brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: r Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
r Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk fsaregister and contacting the firm using the details on the register.
r Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting www.
r If the calls persist, hang up.
r Details of any share dealing facilities that the company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
