Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 93 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 1.
Corporate information Experian plc the Company, which is the ultimate parent company of the Experian group of companies Experian or the Group, is incorporated and registered in Jersey as a public company limited by shares and is resident in Ireland.
The Companys registered office is at 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey JE4 8PX.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchanges Regulated Market Premium Listing.
Experian is the leading global information services group.
Basis of preparation These financial statements are: prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union the EU and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations: prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified for the revaluation of available for sale financial assets and certain other financial assets and financial liabilities including derivatives: presented in US dollars, the most representative currency of the Groups operations, and rounded to the nearest million: prepared using the principal exchange rates set out in note 10: and designed to include disclosures sufficient to comply with those parts of the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS even though the Company is incorporated and registered in Jersey.
In compliance with the requirements for companies whose shares are traded on the London Stock Exchanges Regulated Market, the financial statements of the Company are included within the Group annual report and are set out on pages 150 to 158.
Those financial statements are prepared under UK accounting standards.
Comparative information Experian has agreed to divest the Groups comparison shopping and lead generation businesses and it is anticipated that this transaction will be completed in the first half of the financial year ending 31 March 2013.
In accordance with the requirements of IFRS 5, the assets and liabilities of these businesses at 31 March 2012 are classified as held for sale and the results and cash flows of the businesses for the year ended 31 March 2011 have been reclassified as discontinued.
The results of the North America and the UK and Ireland operating segments shown within note 9 b and the Interactive business segment shown within note 9 c have been re-presented accordingly.
Except as indicated above, the Group financial statements have been prepared on a basis consistent with that reported for the year ended 31 March 201 1.
Recent accounting developments The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and the IFRIC are effective for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2011: Improvements to IFRSs April 2010 Amendment to IAS 24 revised Related party disclosures Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayment of a minimum funding requirement IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments These accounting standards, amendments and interpretations have had no material effect on the results or financial position of the Group disclosed within these financial statements.
Other new or revised accounting standards and interpretations issued by 31 March 2012 but not yet effective include those listed below.
Their impact will be fully considered in due course.
In the case of IAS 19 there will be a restriction on the expected return recognised on pension plan assets within interest income.
Improvements to IFRSs April 2011 Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures IFRS 9 Financial instruments: classification and measurement IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements IFRS 11 Joint arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities IFRS 13 Fair value remeasurements Amendments to IAS 1 Financial statements presentation, IAS 12 Income taxes and IAS 19 revised Employee benefits IAS 27 revised Separate financial statements IAS 28 revised Associate and joint ventures Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation, on offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 94 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 5.
Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to both years presented.
a Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They cease to be consolidated from the date that the Group no longer has control.
As required by IFRS 3, all business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
Intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries and segments are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group for the purposes of the Groups consolidation.
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the financial year ended 31 March 2012.
A list of the significant subsidiaries is given in note T to the parent company financial statements.
Non-controlling interests The non-controlling interests in the Group balance sheet represent the share of net assets of subsidiary undertakings held outside the Group.
The movement in the year comprises the profit attributable to such interests together with any dividends paid, movements in respect of corporate transactions and related exchange differences.
In accordance with IAS 27, the Group applies a policy of treating transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in a loss of control as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of the net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to noncontrolling interests are also recorded in equity.
Where put call option agreements are in place in respect of shares held by non-controlling shareholders, the put element of the liability is measured in accordance with the requirements of IAS 32 and IAS 39 and is stated at the net present value of the expected future payments.
Such liabilities are shown as current or non-current financial liabilities in the Group balance sheet.
The change in the net present value of such options in the year is recognised in the Group income statement within net finance costs, whilst any change in that value attributable to exchange rate movements is recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Associates Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally achieved by a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The equity method is used to account for investments in associates and investments are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of net assets of its associates and loans made to associates are included in the Group balance sheet.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the Group income statement.
The Groups share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income.
These cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
The carrying amount of an investment in an associate is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount to its carrying amount whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
b Foreign currency translation Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency of the relevant Group undertaking at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on monetary items are taken to the Group income statement except when recognised in other comprehensive income, as qualifying net investment hedges or cash flow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary available for sale financial assets are reported as part of the fair value gains or losses in other comprehensive income.
Group undertakings The results and financial position of Group undertakings whose functional currencies are not US dollars are translated into US dollars as follows: Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the year unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rates on the dates of the transactions : Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing exchange rate on the balance sheet date: and All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and as a separate component of equity.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 95 5.
Significant accounting policies continued On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in Group undertakings whose functional currencies are not US dollars, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that such hedges are effective.
Tax charges and credits attributable to those exchange differences are taken directly to other comprehensive income.
When such undertakings are sold, these exchange differences are recognised in the Group income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of such undertakings are treated as assets and liabilities of the entities and are translated into US dollars at the closing exchange rate.
c Goodwill Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment, where cost is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the fair value at the date of acquisition of the Groups share of identifiable net assets of a subsidiary or associate acquired.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to align the accounting policies of acquired businesses with those of the Group.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised for any amount by which the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is separately recognised in the Group balance sheet.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units CGUs and monitored for internal management purposes by operating segment.
The allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment charge is recognised in the Group income statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an undertaking include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the undertaking sold, allocated where necessary on the basis of relative fair value.
d Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill, if those assets are identifiable, separable or arise from legal rights and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Other intangible assets are capitalised at cost.
Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised as intangible assets provided that a number of criteria are satisfied.
These include the technical feasibility of completing the asset so that it is available for use or sale, the availability of adequate resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset and how the asset will generate probable future economic benefit.
The cost of such intangible assets with finite useful economic or contractual lives is amortised over those lives.
The carrying values of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
If impaired, the carrying values are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell, and value-in-use which is determined by reference to projected future income streams using assumptions in respect of profitability and growth.
Research expenditure is charged in the Group income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Acquisition intangibles Customer and advertiser relationships Contractual and non-contractual customer and advertiser relationships acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to eighteen years, based on managements estimates of the average lives of such relationships.
In view of the relative significance of such assets, customer and advertiser relationships are reported separately within note 21.
Trademarks and licences Trademarks and licences acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and are amortised on a straight line basis over their contractual lives, up to a maximum period of twenty years.
Trade names Legally protected or otherwise separable trade names acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to fourteen years, based on managements expectations to retain trade names within the business.
Completed technology Completed technology acquired as part of a business combination is capitalised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to eight years, based on the expected life of the asset.
96 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 5.
Significant accounting policies continued Databases and computer software Databases Capitalised databases comprise the fair value of databases acquired as part of a business combination or the data purchase and data capture costs of internally developed databases.
Databases are held at cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over three to seven years.
Computer software Acquired computer software licences for internal use are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over three to ten years.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
These internally generated software costs are amortised on a straight line basis over three to ten years.
Other costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
e Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is held at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and amounts attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Land is not depreciated and capitalised equipment on hire or lease is depreciated over the lower of the useful life of the equipment and period of the lease.
Depreciation is provided on other property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to depreciate the cost, less estimated residual value based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, of each asset evenly over its expected useful life as follows: Freehold properties - 50 years: Short leasehold properties - the remaining period of the lease: and Plant and equipment - three to ten years according to the estimated life of the asset.
Technology based assets are typically depreciated over three to five years with other infrastructure assets depreciated over five to ten years.
f Leases Finance leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Such leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges.
The rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in loans and borrowings.
The interest element of the lease payment is charged in the Group income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Operating leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases and not capitalised.
Payments made under operating leases are charged in the Group income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Incentives from lessors are recognised as a systematic reduction of the charge over the period of the lease.
g Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in four categories: loans and receivables, derivatives used for hedging, assets at fair value through profit and loss, and available for sale.
The classification is determined at initial recognition and depends on the purpose for which the financial assets are acquired.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities more than one year after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Derivatives used for hedging Derivative financial assets used for hedging are included in current assets, except for maturities more than one year after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
Derivatives utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, foreign exchange contracts and equity swaps.
Assets at fair value through profit and loss Assets at fair value through profit and loss comprise non-hedging derivative financial instruments.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 97 5.
Significant accounting policies continued Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated to this category or not classified in the other financial asset categories.
Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value and are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the assets within one year of the balance sheet date.
Purchases and disposals of such assets are accounted for at settlement date.
Unrealised gains and losses on available for sale financial assets are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
On disposal or impairment of such assets, the gains and losses in equity are reclassified through the Group income statement.
Gains and losses recognised on disposal exclude dividend and interest income.
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence to suggest that available for sale financial assets are impaired.
In the case of equity securities, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the security is impaired.
If any such evidence exists, the cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Group income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the Group income statement on equity instruments are not subsequently reversed through the Group income statement.
h Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at this value less any provision for impairment.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are then carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
Such evidence is based primarily on the pattern of cash received compared to the terms upon which the trade receivable is contracted.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the value of estimated future cash flows.
Any charge or credit in respect of such provisions is recognised in the Group income statement within other operating charges.
The cost of any irrecoverable trade receivables not included in the provision is recognised in the Group income statement immediately within other operating charges.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited in the Group income statement within other operating charges.
i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, term and call deposits held with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the Group balance sheet.
For the purposes of the Group cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are reported net of bank overdrafts.
j Borrowings and borrowing costs Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of any transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost except where they are hedged by an effective fair value hedge, in which case the carrying value is adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with the hedged risk.
Borrowings are classified as non-current to the extent that the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least one year after the balance sheet date.
Incremental transaction costs which are directly attributable to the issue of debt are capitalised and amortised over the expected life of the borrowing using the effective interest rate method.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the year in which they are incurred.
k Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and certain obligations, including social security obligations, relating to share-based payments.
Derivative instruments utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, foreign exchange contracts and equity swaps.
These are recognised as assets or liabilities as appropriate.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at their fair value at the date a contract is entered into, and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at each reporting date.
Depending on the type of the derivative financial instrument, fair value calculation techniques include, but are not limited to, quoted market value, present value of estimated future cash flows of which the valuation of interest rate swaps is an example and exchange rates at the balance sheet date of which the valuation of foreign exchange contracts is an example.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as: Fair value hedges - hedges of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability or a firm commitment: or Cash flow hedges - hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction: or Net investment hedges - hedges of a net investment in an operation whose functional currency is not US dollars.
98 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 5.
Significant accounting policies continued The Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items at the hedge inception, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged items.
This effectiveness testing is performed at every reporting date throughout the life of the hedge to confirm that the hedge remains, and will continue to remain, highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Derivative assets and liabilities are classified as non-current unless they mature within one year after the balance sheet date.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are taken to net finance costs over the period of the contracts, together with the interest differentials reflected in foreign exchange contracts.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the Group income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The ineffective portion of a fair value hedge is recognised in net finance costs in the Group income statement.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in total operating expenses in the Group income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified in the Group income statement in the period when the hedged item impacts the Group income statement.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss included in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Group income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was included in equity is transferred immediately to the Group income statement.
Net investment hedges Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge of a net investment in an undertaking whose functional currency is not US dollars is recognised in other comprehensive income: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in net finance costs in the Group income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Group income statement when the undertaking is disposed of.
Non-hedging derivatives Changes in the fair value of such derivative instruments are recognised immediately in the Group income statement.
Costs and income in respect of derivatives entered into in connection with social security obligations on employee share incentive plans, other than those of a financing nature, are charged or credited within labour costs: other costs and changes in fair value on such derivatives are charged or credited within financing fair value remeasurements in the Group income statement.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the Group income statement.
l Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that are not subject to amortisation or depreciation are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment charge is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell, and value-in-use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped into CGUs, determined by the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
m Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value.
Where the time value of money is material, payables are then carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 99 5.
Significant accounting policies continued n Contingent consideration The cost of each acquisition initially recorded includes a reasonable estimate of the fair value of any contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future.
In accordance with IFRS 3, any cost or benefit arising when revised estimates of such consideration are made is recognised in the Group income statement.
o Current and deferred tax The tax charge or credit for the year for current and deferred tax is recognised in the Group income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In such cases the tax is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity as appropriate.
Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Group operates.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Group financial statements.
Deferred tax is not recognised on taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill.
Deferred tax that arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not accounted for.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
p Provisions Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pretax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
q Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale when their carrying amounts are to be recovered or settled principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
r Own shares Shares in the Company purchased in connection with any share buyback programme, and held as treasury shares, are shown as a deduction from total equity at cost.
The Group has a number of equity settled, share-based employee incentive plans and, in connection with these plans, own shares are held by The Experian plc Employee Share Trust and the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Share Plan.
The assets of the trusts mainly comprise shares in the Company and such shares are also shown as a deduction from total equity at cost.
Contractual obligations to purchase own shares are recognised at the net present value of expected future payments.
Gains and losses in connection with such obligations are recognised in the Group income statement.
s Revenue recognition Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable on the sale of goods and services to clients, net of value added tax and other sales taxes, rebates and discounts.
Revenue includes the provision and processing of data, subscriptions to services, software and database customisation and development and the sale of software licences, maintenance and related consulting services.
Revenue in respect of the provision and processing of data is recognised in the year in which the service is provided.
Subscription revenues, and revenues in respect of services to be provided by an indeterminate number of acts over a specified period of time, are recognised on a straight line basis over those periods.
Customisation, development and consulting revenues are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the work generally on the basis of costs incurred to date as a percentage of estimated total costs.
Revenue from software licences is recognised upon delivery.
Revenue from maintenance agreements is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the maintenance period.
100 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 5.
Significant accounting policies continued Where a single arrangement comprises a number of individual elements which are capable of operating independently of one another, the total revenues are allocated amongst the individual elements based on an estimate of the fair value of each element.
Where the elements are not capable of operating independently, or reasonable measures of fair value for each element are not available, total revenues are recognised on a straight line basis over the contract period to reflect the timing of services performed.
Sales are generally invoiced in the geographic area in which the customer is located and accordingly the geographic location of the invoicing undertaking is used as the basis for attributing revenue to individual countries.
t Employee benefits Pension and other post employment benefits Defined benefit pension arrangements funded plans The retirement benefit assets and obligations recognised in the Group balance sheet in respect of funded plans comprise the fair value of plan assets of funded plans less the present value of the related defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, together with adjustments for past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using market yields available at the assessment date on high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the Group income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight line basis over that period.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement comprises the cost of benefits accrued plus interest on the defined benefit obligation less the expected return on the plan assets over the year.
Service and financing costs are recognised separately in the Group income statement.
Defined benefit pension arrangements unfunded plans Unfunded pension obligations are determined and accounted for in accordance with the principles used in respect of the funded arrangements.
Defined contribution pension arrangements The assets of defined contribution plans are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement represents the contributions payable by the Group to these funds in respect of the year.
Post-retirement healthcare obligations Obligations in respect of post-retirement healthcare plans are calculated annually by independent qualified actuaries using an actuarial methodology similar to that for the funded defined benefit pension arrangements.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement only comprises interest on the defined benefit obligation.
Share-based payments The fair value of share options and share awards granted in connection with the Groups equity settled, share-based employee incentive plans is recognised as an expense in the Group income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured at the date of grant using whichever of the Black-Scholes model, Monte Carlo model and closing market price is most appropriate to value the award.
The Group takes into account the best estimate of the number of options and awards expected to vest and such estimates are revised at each balance sheet date.
Non-market performance conditions are included in the vesting estimates.
Market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revised for actual performance.
u Acquisition expenses Acquisition expenses are charged to the Group income statement.
Related cash flows are reported within the net cash inflow from operating activities.
v Discontinued operations A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate geographic area of operation or a separate major line of business.
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or earlier, if the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale under IFRS 5. Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 101 6.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments a Critical accounting estimates and assumptions In preparing the Group financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on managements best judgment at the date of the Group financial statements, will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Tax note 15 The Group is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgment is required in determining the related assets or provisions as there are transactions in the ordinary course of business and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional tax will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recognised, such differences will impact on the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred tax assets or provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
Goodwill note 20 Goodwill is allocated to CGUs and monitored for internal management purposes by operating segment.
The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the goodwill may be impaired.
The recoverable amount of each CGU is generally determined on the basis of value-in-use calculations which require the use of cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management, looking forward up to five years.
Management determines budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations for the market development.
Cash ows are extrapolated using estimated growth rates beyond a five year period.
The growth rates used do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the markets in which the segment operates.
The discount rates used reflect the segments pre-tax weighted average cost of capital WACC.
Fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments note 31 The fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined using valuation techniques.
The Group uses its judgment to select a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
The assumptions in respect of the valuation of the put option associated with the remaining 30% stake in Serasa are set out in note 8.
Share-based payments note 33 The assumptions used in determining the amounts charged in the Group income statement include judgments in respect of performance conditions and length of service together with future share prices, dividend and interest yields and exercise patterns.
Pension benefits note 34 The present value of the defined benefit assets and obligations depends on factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the defined benefit assets and obligations and net pension costs include the expected long-term rate of return on the plan assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions may impact on the amounts disclosed in the Group financial statements.
The expected return on plan assets is calculated by reference to the plan investments at the balance sheet date and is a weighted average of the expected returns on each main asset type based on market yields available on these asset types at the balance sheet date.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate used to calculate the present value of estimated future cash outows expected to be required to settle the defined benefit obligations.
In determining the discount rate, the Group has considered the prevailing market yields of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
In determining the discount rate, management has accordingly derived an appropriate discount rate by consideration of an AA rated corporate bond yield curve and the estimated future cash outflows.
Other key assumptions for defined benefit obligations and pension costs are based in part on market conditions at the relevant balance sheet dates and additional information is given in note 34. b Critical judgments Management has made certain judgments in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Group financial statements.
These judgments include the classification of transactions between the Group income statement and the Group balance sheet.
102 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 6.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments continued The most significant of these judgments is in respect of intangible assets where certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised if a number of criteria are met.
Management has made certain judgments and assumptions when assessing whether a project meets these criteria, and on measuring the costs and the economic life attributed to such projects.
On acquisition, specific intangible assets are identified and recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their estimated useful lives.
These include such items as brand names and customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The capitalisation of these assets and the related amortisation charges are based on judgments about the value and economic life of such items.
The economic lives for intangible assets are estimated at between three and ten years for internal projects, which include databases, internal use software and internally generated software, and between two and twenty years for acquisition intangibles.
Further details of the amounts of, and movements in, such assets are given in note 21.
Use of non-GAAP measures in the Group financial statements The Group has identified certain measures that it believes will assist understanding of the performance of the business.
The measures are not defined under IFRS and they may not be directly comparable with other companies adjusted measures.
The non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, any IFRS measures of performance but management has included them as they consider them to be important comparables and key measures used within the business for assessing performance.
The following are the key non-GAAP measures identified by the Group and used in the Group financial statements: Benchmark profit before tax Benchmark PBT Benchmark PBT is defined as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, acquisition expenses, goodwill impairments, adjustments to contingent consideration, charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans, exceptional items, financing fair value remeasurements, tax and discontinued operations.
It includes the Groups share of continuing associates pre-tax results.
Earnings before interest and tax EBIT EBIT is defined as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, acquisition expenses, goodwill impairments, adjustments to contingent consideration, charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans, exceptional items, net finance costs, tax and discontinued operations.
Benchmark earnings Benchmark earnings represents Benchmark PBT less attributable tax and non-controlling interests.
Benchmark earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests represents that portion of Benchmark earnings that relate to non-controlling interests.
Benchmark PBT less attributable tax is designated as overall benchmark earnings.
The attributable tax for the purposes of determining benchmark earnings excludes significant tax credits and charges arising in the year which, in view of their size or nature, are not comparable with previous periods together with tax arising on exceptional items and on total adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT.
Benchmark earnings per share Benchmark EPS Benchmark EPS represents Benchmark earnings divided by a weighted average number of shares, and is disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of the Group.
Exceptional items The separate reporting of non-recurring exceptional items gives an indication of the Groups underlying performance.
Exceptional items are those arising from the profit or loss on disposal of businesses, closure costs of major business units or costs of significant restructuring programmes.
All other restructuring costs are charged against EBIT in the segments in which they are incurred.
Operating cash flow Operating cash flow is calculated as cash generated from operations adjusted for outflows in respect of acquisition expenses, the purchase and disposal of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets, and adding dividends from continuing associates but excluding any cash inflows and outflows in respect of exceptional items.
It is reconciled to cash generated from operations in note 40 h. Operating cash flow is defined as EBIT from continuing operations, plus depreciation, amortisation and charges in respect of equity incentive plans within Benchmark PBT, less capital expenditure net of disposal proceeds and further adjusted for changes in working capital and profit or loss retained in continuing associates.
Net debt Net debt is calculated as total debt less cash and cash equivalents and other highly liquid bank deposits with original maturities greater than three months.
Total debt includes loans and borrowings and the fair value of derivatives hedging loans and borrowings, overdrafts and obligations under finance leases.
Accrued interest is excluded from net debt.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 103 8.
Financial risk management a Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups financial risk management focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potentially adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group seeks to reduce its exposure to financial risks and uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The Group also ensures surplus funds are managed and controlled in a prudent manner which will protect capital sums invested and ensure adequate short-term liquidity, whilst maximising returns.
Financial risks represent part of the Groups risks in relation to its strategy and business objectives and a full discussion of all such risks is contained within the separate risks and uncertainties section of the annual report.
Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and investments in, and loans between, undertakings with different functional currencies.
The Group manages such risk, primarily within undertakings whose functional currencies are US dollars, by borrowing in the relevant currencies and using forward foreign exchange contracts.
The principal transaction exposures are to sterling and the euro.
The following table quantifies the Groups sensitivity to foreign exchange risk on the basis of the profile of foreign exchange transaction exposures, and an assessment of reasonably possible changes in such exposures.
In making its assessment of reasonably possible changes, the Group has considered data on movements in relevant currencies.
Foreign exchange exposure 2012 2011 Sterling against US dollar: Currency strengthening weakening 9% 10% Effect on profit for the financial year US$nil US$1m higher lower Effect on other comprehensive income and other components of equity US$nil US$nil Euro against US dollar: Currency strengthening weakening 8% 10% Effect on profit for the financial year US$1m higher lower US$nil Effect on other comprehensive income and other components of equity US$nil US$nil The Group has investments in undertakings with other functional currencies, whose net assets are exposed to foreign exchange translation risk.
In order to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations on the value of such entities, the Group has a policy of borrowing in sterling and euros, as well as in US dollars, and of entering into forward foreign exchange contracts in the relevant currencies.
The sensitivity reported in respect of sterling against the US dollar is wholly attributable to such net exposures.
Otherwise the above analysis excludes the impact of foreign exchange risk on the translation of the net assets of such undertakings.
Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises principally from its net debt and the portions thereof at variable rates which expose the Group to such risk.
The Group has a policy of normally maintaining between 30% and 70% of net funding at rates that are fixed for more than six months.
The Groups interest rate exposure is managed by the use of fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to adjust the balance of fixed and floating rate liabilities.
The Group also mixes the duration of its borrowings to smooth the impact of interest rate fluctuations.
104 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 8.
Financial risk management continued The following table quantifies the Groups sensitivity to interest rate risk on the basis of the profile of net debt at each balance sheet date and an assessment of reasonably possible changes in the principal interest rates, with all other variables held constant.
In making its assessment of reasonably possible changes, the Group has considered data on movements in relevant interest rates over the most recent three-year period.
Interest rate exposure 2012 2011 On US dollar denominated net debt: Interest rate movement 0.7% higher 1.6% higher 1 Effect on profit for the financial year US$14m higher US$16m higher On sterling denominated net debt: Interest rate movement 1.4% higher 1.7% higher 2 Effect on profit for the financial year US$1m lower US$9m lower On Brazilian real denominated net debt: Interest rate movement 2.3% higher 2.3% higher 3 Effect on profit for the financial year US$3m higher US$2m higher On euro denominated net debt: Interest rate movement 1.4% higher 1.5% higher 2 Effect on profit for the financial year US$7m lower US$8m lower 1.
Primarily as a result of fair value gains on interest rate swaps offset by higher interest expense on floating rate borrowings.
Primarily as a result of the revaluation of borrowings and related derivatives.
Primarily as a result of higher interest income on cash and cash equivalents.
Price risk The Group is exposed to price risk in connection with investments classified on the balance sheet as available for sale financial assets.
Such investments are primarily held to provide security in connection with unfunded pension obligations and are managed by independent fund managers who seek to mitigate such risk by diversification of the portfolio.
At 31 March 2012, if the relevant stock market and other indices had been 10% higher lower with all other variables held constant, no further significant gains losses would have been recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
In making its assessment of reasonably possible changes, the Group has used the movements in relevant stock market and other indices for the year ended 31 March 2012. Credit risk In the case of derivative financial instruments, deposits and trade receivables, the Group is exposed to credit risk from the non-performance of contractual agreements by the contracted party.
This credit risk is minimised by a policy under which the Group only enters into such contracts with banks and financial institutions with strong credit ratings, within limits set for each organisation.
Dealing activity is closely controlled and counterparty positions are monitored regularly.
The general credit risk on derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group is therefore not considered to be significant.
The Group does not anticipate that any losses will arise from non-performance by these counterparties.
At the balance sheet date trade receivables with financial institutions accounted for some 25% 2011: 26% of total trade receivables in Brazil, some 28% 2011: 23% in the UK and some 27% 2011: 22% in the USA.
The remaining balances are distributed across multiple industries and geographies.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential clients before granting credit.
The maximum credit risk in respect of such financial assets is the carrying value of the assets.
Liquidity risk The Group maintains long-term committed facilities to ensure it has sufficient funds available for operations and planned expansions.
The Group monitors rolling forecasts of projected cash flows to ensure that it will have adequate undrawn committed facilities available.
Details of the facilities available to the Group and their utilisation at the balance sheet date are given in note 28.
The maturity analysis of financial liabilities is given in note 32. b Capital risk management The Groups objectives in managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure and cost of capital.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 105 8.
Financial risk management continued In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue or purchase shares or sell assets to reduce net debt.
As part of its internal reporting processes the Group monitors capital employed by operating segment.
For this purpose, capital employed is defined as net assets excluding the net present value of the Serasa put option, net debt, and tax balances.
At 31 March 2012 the Groups capital employed was US$5,979m 2011: US$5,323m.
The Group manages its working capital and capital expenditure in order to meet its target to convert at least 90% of EBIT into operating cash flow and the conversion percentage for the year ended 31 March 2012 was 96% 2011: 98%.
c Fair value estimation The fair value of derivative financial instruments and other financial assets and liabilities is determined by using market data and established estimation techniques such as discounted cash flow and option valuation models.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is based on a comparison of the contractual and year end exchange rates.
The fair values of other derivative financial instruments are estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year end.
The following table presents an analysis of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value by level, as required and defined by IFRS 7: 2012 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets: Bank deposits ---- -14 - 14 Derivatives used for hedging -113 -113 -37 - 37 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss -11 6 17 -86 14 Available for sale 37 - - 37 42 - - 42 37 124 6 167 42 59 6 107 Financial liabilities: Derivatives used for hedging ---- - 31 - 31 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss - 38 1,124 1,162 - 33 904 937 - 38 1,124 1,162 - 64 904 968 Net financial assets liabilities 37 86 1,118 995 42 5 898 861 Assets and liabilities whose valuations are based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities are classified as Level 1 in the above analysis.
Assets and liabilities which are not traded in an active market and whose valuations are derived from available market data that is observable for the asset or liability are classified as Level 2.
Assets and liabilities whose valuations are derived from inputs not based on observable market data are classified as Level 3.
The following table presents an analysis of the changes in financial assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 which comprise put and call options associated with corporate transactions: Year ended 31 March 2012 Year ended 31 March 2011 Serasa put Other Total Serasa put Other Total option option US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 870 28 898 661 1 660 Additions - 9 9 - 21 21 Valuation losses gains recognised in income statement 325 11 314 142 6 148 Currency translation gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income 103 - 103 67 2 69 At 31 March 1,092 26 1,118 870 28 898 In view of the anticipated exercise of the put option associated with the remaining 30% stake in Serasa from June 2012, the option has been valued by the Company at 31 March 2012 at the higher of 95% of the equity value of Serasa and the value of Serasa based on assumptions such as the price earnings ratio of Experian and the latest earnings of Serasa.
This method is in accordance with the contractual arrangements on exercise.
A further 10% increase in the equity value of Serasa would have resulted in an increase of US$109m in the value of the put obligation.
A change of 10% in the Brazilian real exchange rate against the US dollar from that prevailing at the balance sheet date would result in a change of US$109m in the value of the obligation.
106 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 8.
Financial risk management continued In prior years a Monte Carlo simulation was used to calculate the liability.
The key assumptions in arriving at such valuations were the equity value of Serasa, the future price earnings ratio of Experian at the date of exercise, the respective volatilities of Experian and Serasa and the risk free rate in Brazil.
It was assumed that the put may be exercised in June 2012.
Gains and losses in respect of the valuation of the put option since acquisition in June 2007 have been recorded as financing fair value remeasurements.
Movements in the year ended 31 March 2012 and the year ended 31 March 2011 primarily relate to an increase in the equity value of Serasa.
Segment information a Narrative disclosures Under IFRS 8, an operating segment is a component of an entity: that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses including revenues and expenses relating to transactions with other components : whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to assess its performance and make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment: and for which discrete financial information is available.
Experian is organised into, and managed on a worldwide basis over, the following five operating segments, based on geographic areas, supported by its central Group functions: North America: Latin America: UK and Ireland: Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA : and Asia Pacific.
The chief operating decision maker assesses the performance of the above operating segments on the basis of EBIT, as defined in note 7.
The All other segments category required to be disclosed under IFRS 8 has been captioned in these financial statements as EMEA Asia Pacific.
This combines information in respect of the EMEA and the Asia Pacific segments as, on the basis of their share of the Groups results and net assets, neither of these operating segments is individually reportable under IFRS 8.
Experian separately presents information equivalent to segment disclosures in respect of the costs of its central Group functions under the caption of Central Activities, as management believes that the reporting of this information is helpful to users of the financial statements.
Information disclosed under Central Activities includes costs arising from finance, treasury and other global functions.
Inter-segment transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
There is no material impact from inter-segment transactions on the Groups results.
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets including goodwill, inventories, derivatives designated as hedges of future commercial transactions, and receivables.
They exclude tax assets, cash and cash equivalents and derivatives designated as hedges of borrowings.
Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities, including derivatives designated as hedges of future commercial transactions.
They exclude tax liabilities, borrowings and related hedging derivatives.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, excluding additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations.
Information presented to meet the requirements of IFRS 8 additionally includes analysis of the Groups revenues over groups of service lines.
This is supplemented by voluntary disclosure of the profitability of those same groups of service lines and, for ease of reference, Experian continues to use the term business segments when discussing the results of groups of service lines.
The four business segments for Experian, details of which are given in the business overview section of this annual report, are: Credit Services: Decision Analytics: Marketing Services: and Interactive.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 107 9.
Segment information continued The North America and the UK and Ireland operating segments derive revenues from all of the Groups business segments.
The Latin America, EMEA and Asia Pacific segments currently do not derive revenue from the Interactive business segment.
Segment information for the full year provided to the chief operating decision maker, and reportable under IFRS 8, is set out in section b below.
b IFRS 8 disclosures - financial information i Income statement 2 Continuing operations North Latin UK & EMEA Total Central Total Year ended 31 March 2012 America America Ireland Asia Pacific operating Activities continuing segments operations US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Revenue from external customers 2,092 961 825 609 4,487 - 4,487 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax continuing operations EBIT 658 320 227 44 1,249 74 1,175 Net interest note 14 b ---- - 47 47 Benchmark PBT 658 320 227 44 1,249 121 1,128 Exceptional items note 13 a - - 6 2 8 4 12 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 32 52 18 20 122 - 122 Acquisition expenses 1 3 2 3 9 - 9 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration - 3 - - 3 - 3 Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 2 - 2 - 4 1 5 Financing fair value remeasurements ---- - 318 318 Profit loss before tax 623 268 211 23 1,125 436 689 2 Continuing operations North Latin UK & EMEA Total Central Total Year ended 31 March 2011 America America Ireland Asia Pacific operating Activities continuing segments operations US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Revenue from external customers 1,905 722 742 516 3,885 - 3,885 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax continuing operations EBIT 556 235 213 53 1,057 66 991 Net interest note 14 b - - - - - 71 71 Benchmark PBT 556 235 213 53 1,057 137 920 Exceptional items note 13 a 5 - 4 6 7 5 2 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 22 43 18 16 99 - 99 Acquisition expenses 2 4 1 1 8 - 8 Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 5 - 4 1 10 3 13 Financing fair value remeasurements - - - - - 142 142 Profit loss before tax 522 188 194 29 933 277 656 1.
Revenue from external customers arose principally from the provision of services.
There is no material inter-segment revenue.
The analysis by business segment of revenue from external customers is given within note 9 c. 2.
A loss before tax of US$9m 2011: profit of US$142m arose in respect of discontinued operations.
Further information on such operations which comprise the Groups comparison shopping and lead generation businesses in the current year and the Groups comparison shopping and lead generation businesses and FARES in the prior year is given in note 17.
The results for the year ended 31 March 2011 have been re-presented in respect of the comparison shopping and lead generation businesses, the results of which were previously reported in the North America and UK & Ireland operating segments.
108 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 9.
Segment information continued ii Balance sheet North Latin UK & EMEA Segment Central Total At 31 March 2012 America America Ireland Asia Pacific assets and Activities Group 1 liabilities and other US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Goodwill 1,778 1,322 686 377 4,163 - 4,163 Investments in associates 2 10 - 1 13 - 13 Other assets 1,061 895 600 452 3,008 970 3,978 Total assets 2,841 2,227 1,286 830 7,184 970 8,154 Total liabilities 485 244 328 275 1,332 3,891 5,223 Net assets liabilities 2,356 1,983 958 555 5,852 2,921 2,931 North Latin UK & EMEA Segment Central Total At 31 March 2011 America America Ireland Asia Pacific assets and Activities Group 1 liabilities and other US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Goodwill 1,675 1,116 611 359 3,761 - 3,761 Investments in associates 2 - - 25 27 - 27 Other assets 953 770 557 412 2,692 852 3,544 Total assets 2,630 1,886 1,168 796 6,480 852 7,332 Total liabilities 491 191 338 247 1,267 3,358 4,625 Net assets liabilities 2,139 1,695 830 549 5,213 2,506 2,707 2012 2011 Assets Liabilities Net assets Assets Liabilities Net assets Central Activities and other comprise: liabilities liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Central Activities 277 150 127 230 120 110 Net present value of put option in respect of non-controlling interest in Serasa - 1,092 1,092 - 870 870 Net debt 358 2,176 1,818 455 1,956 1,501 Tax 335 473 138 167 412 245 Central Activities and other 970 3,891 2,921 852 3,358 2,506 1.
Net assets for Central Activities comprise corporate head office balances including retirement benefit assets and obligations and derivative assets and liabilities.
The tax liability at 31 March 2012 includes a net liability of US$33m classified as held for sale note 42.
Other assets and liabilities classified as held for sale at 31 March 2012 are principally reported in the North America operating segment.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 109 9.
Segment information continued 1 1 iii Capital expenditure, depreciation and amortisation Capital expenditure Depreciation Amortisation 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Re-presented Re-presented Re-presented Note 3 Note 3 Note 3 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m North America 159 136 31 36 96 93 Latin America 141 94 16 15 66 57 UK and Ireland 74 59 16 14 33 26 EMEA Asia Pacific 60 46 10 9 32 24 Total operating segments 434 335 73 74 227 200 Central Activities 30 34 2 3 8 6 464 369 75 77 235 206 1.
Depreciation and amortisation within the above analysis only include amounts charged to Benchmark PBT.
Additional capital expenditure of US$3m 2011: US$5m, depreciation of US$4m 2011: US$4m and amortisation of US$2m 2011: US$1m arose in respect of discontinued operations in the North America segment.
Further information on such operations is given in note 17.
Capital expenditure for 2012 is stated before receipts in the form of landlord incentives see note 40 h. 2012 2011 Re-presented Note 3 iv Revenue by country continuing operations US$m US$m USA 2,089 1,900 Brazil 900 715 UK 815 733 Other 683 537 4,487 3,885 1.
No single customer accounted for 10% or more of the Groups revenue from external customers in the current or prior year.
The Company is resident in Ireland.
Revenue with Irish external customers represents less than 1% of the Groups revenue from external customers and accordingly the Groups revenue is primarily attributable to foreign countries.
Non-current assets for Central Activities, which include derivative financial assets, and deferred tax have been excluded from the analysis by country to add clarity to the presentation of this information.
The Group has no significant non-current assets located in Ireland.
110 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 9.
Segment information continued c Information on business segments including non-GAAP disclosures 3 Continuing operations Credit Decision Marketing Interactive Total Central Total Year ended 31 March 2012 Services Analytics Services business Activities continuing segments operations US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Revenue from external customers 2,133 476 949 929 4,487 - 4,487 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax - continuing operations EBIT 728 107 146 268 1,249 74 1,175 Net interest note 14 b ---- - 47 47 Benchmark PBT 728 107 146 268 1,249 121 1,128 Exceptional items note 13 a - 2 6 - 8 4 12 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 72 4 31 15 122 - 122 Acquisition expenses 4 1 3 1 9 - 9 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration - - 3 - 3 - 3 Charges in respect of the demerger-related 2 equity incentive plans - - - - - 5 5 Financing fair value remeasurements - - - - - 318 318 Profit loss before tax 652 104 121 252 1,129 440 689 3 Continuing operations Credit Decision Marketing Interactive Total Central Total Year ended 31 March 2011 Services Analytics Services business Activities continuing segments operations US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Revenue from external customers 1,812 436 815 822 3,885 - 3,885 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax - continuing operations EBIT 609 119 123 206 1,057 66 991 Net interest note 14 b - - - - - 71 71 Benchmark PBT 609 119 123 206 1,057 137 920 Exceptional items note 13 a 6 - 23 2 31 29 2 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 60 5 27 7 99 - 99 Acquisition expenses 5 - 2 1 8 - 8 Charges in respect of the demerger-related 2 equity incentive plans - - - - - 13 13 Financing fair value remeasurements - - - - - 142 142 Profit loss before tax 538 114 71 196 919 263 656 1.
No allocation by business segment is made for charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans as the underlying data is maintained only to provide an allocation by operating segment.
The results for the year ended 31 March 2011 have been re-presented in respect of the comparison shopping and lead generation businesses, the results of which were previously reported in the Interactive business segment.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 111 10.
Foreign currency The principal exchange rates used in these financial statements are given below.
An indication of the sensitivity of the Groups results to foreign exchange risk is given in note 8.
Total operating expenses 2012 2011 Re-presented Note 3 a Labour costs - continuing operations US$m US$m Wages and salaries 1,222 1,104 Social security costs 194 161 Share-based payments note 33 65 64 Pension costs income - defined benefit plans note 34 9 19 Pension costs - defined contribution plans 45 36 Employee benefit costs 1,535 1,346 Other labour costs 164 130 1,699 1,476 Other labour costs include costs in respect of external contractors, outsourcing costs and costs relating to the recruitment, development and training of employees.
The definition, and analysis of the remuneration, of key management personnel is given in note 46.
2012 2011 Re-presented Note 3 b Depreciation and amortisation - continuing operations US$m US$m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 75 76 Amortisation of intangible assets 359 306 Write down on disposal of intangibles - 3 434 385 2012 2011 c Fees payable to the Companys auditor US$m US$m Audit of the parent company and Group financial statements 0.5 0.5 Audit of the financial statements of the parent companys subsidiaries 3.2 3.3 Tax compliance services 0.4 0.3 Tax advisory services 1.2 2.5 Other assurance services 1.6 0.8 Total fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates 6.9 7.4 Summary of fees by nature: Fees for audit and assurance services 5.3 4.6 Fees for other services 1.6 2.8 Total fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates 6.9 7.4 The guidelines covering the use of the Companys auditor for non-audit services are set out in the corporate governance statement and in the year ended 31 March 2012 fees payable for such services were 30% 2011: 61% of fees payable for audit and assurance services.
All such fees are included within other operating charges.
112 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 12.
Exceptional items and total adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT continuing operations 2012 2011 a Exceptional items US$m US$m Gain loss on disposal of businesses 8 21 Interest income arising on legacy tax balances 4 - Gain in respect of defined benefit pension plan - 29 Restructuring costs - 10 Total exceptional items 12 2 Exceptional items by income statement caption: Labour costs - 23 Data and information technology costs - 1 Depreciation and amortisation - 3 Other operating charges 8 21 Within operating profit 8 2 Within net finance costs 4 - Total exceptional items 12 2 The gain on disposal of businesses in the year ended 31 March 2012 related to a number of small disposals of businesses, principally the disposal of an investment classified as available for sale at 31 March 2011.
The loss on disposal of businesses in the year ended 31 March 2011 principally related to the completion of a number of small disposals of businesses whose assets and liabilities were classified as held for sale at 31 March 2010.
There were related cash inflows of US$12m 2011: US$12m.
Interest income of US$4m arose on the determination of certain legacy tax balances in the year ended 31 March 2012.
The gain of US$29m in respect of the defined benefit pension plan in the year ended 31 March 2011 arose as a consequence of a change by the UK Government to the index required to be used in determining pension increases for benefits accrued in respect of past service see note 34.
Expenditure of US$10m arose in the year ended 31 March 2011 in connection with the conclusion of the Groups strategic programme of cost efficiency measures.
A reconciliation of total exceptional items to the cash outflow in respect of exceptional items is given in note 40 c. Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 113 13.
Exceptional items and total adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT continuing operations continued 2012 2011 Re-presented Note 3 b Total adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT US$m US$m Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 122 99 Acquisition expenses 9 8 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration 3 - Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 5 13 Financing fair value remeasurements note 14 c 318 142 Total adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 451 262 Adjustments by income statement caption: Labour costs 5 13 Depreciation and amortisation 122 99 Other operating charges 6 8 Finance expense 318 142 Total adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 451 262 On acquisition, specific intangible assets are identified and recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their useful economic lives.
These include items such as brand names and customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The Group has excluded amortisation of these acquisition intangibles from its definition of Benchmark PBT because such a charge is based on judgments about their value and economic life.
IFRS 3 requires that acquisition expenses are charged to the Group income statement.
The Group has excluded such costs from its definition of Benchmark PBT as, by their very nature, they bear no relation to the underlying performance of the Group or to the performance of the acquired businesses.
These costs are recognised within other operating charges.
Adjustments to contingent consideration are similarly excluded from the definition of Benchmark PBT.
Charges in respect of demerger-related equity incentive plans relate to one-off grants made to senior management and at all staff levels at the time of the demerger, under a number of equity incentive plans.
The cost of these one-off grants has been charged to the Group income statement over the five years from demerger in October 2006, but excluded from the definition of Benchmark PBT.
The cost of all other grants is charged to the Group income statement and included in the definition of Benchmark PBT.
An element of the Groups derivatives is ineligible for hedge accounting under IFRS.
Gains or losses on these derivatives arising from market movements, together with gains and losses on put options in respect of acquisitions, are credited or charged to financing fair value remeasurements within finance expense in the Group income statement.
114 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 14.
Net finance costs 2012 2011 a Net finance costs included in Profit before tax US$m US$m Interest income: Bank deposits and short-term investments 18 13 Expected return on pension plan assets 57 56 Interest income before interest on legacy tax balances 75 69 Interest income arising on legacy tax balances 4 - Interest income 79 69 Finance expense: Bank loans and overdrafts 3 6 Eurobonds and notes 95 66 Commitment and facility fees 8 6 Unwind of discounts 1 2 Interest differentials on derivatives 31 9 Finance lease interest expense - 1 Interest expense on pension plan liabilities 46 50 Interest expense 122 140 Charge in respect of financing fair value remeasurements note 14 c 318 142 Finance expense 440 282 Net finance costs included in Profit before tax 361 213 2012 2011 b Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT US$m US$m Interest income before interest on legacy tax balances 75 69 Interest expense 122 140 Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT 47 71 2012 2011 c Analysis of charge in respect of financing fair value remeasurements US$m US$m Fair value losses gains on borrowings - attributable to interest rate risk 135 22 Fair value gains losses on borrowings - attributable to currency risk 53 38 Losses on interest rate swaps - fair value hedges 3 9 Gains on cross currency swaps - fair value hedges 101 6 Fair value losses gains on non-hedging derivatives 4 26 Losses in connection with commitments to purchase own shares - 2 Foreign exchange losses on financing activities 16 8 Increase in fair value of put options - principally Serasa 314 139 Charge in respect of financing fair value remeasurements 318 142 An indication of the sensitivity of the Groups results to interest rate risk is given in note 8. Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 115 15.
Tax credit charge in the Group income statement a Analysis of Group tax credit charge 2012 2011 Re-presented Note 3 US$m US$m Current tax: Tax on income for the year 120 91 Adjustments in respect of prior years 71 35 Total current tax charge 49 56 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 82 49 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2 13 Total deferred tax credit charge 84 62 Group tax credit charge 35 118 The Group tax credit charge comprises: UK tax 241 23 Non-UK tax 206 141 Group tax credit charge 35 118 b Tax reconciliations 2012 2011 Re-presented Note 3 i Reconciliation of the Group tax credit charge US$m US$m Profit before tax 689 656 Profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 26% 2011: 28% 179 184 Effects of: Adjustments in respect of prior years 73 22 Income not taxable 42 23 Expenses not deductible 139 72 Adjustment in respect of previously unrecognised tax losses 217 58 Reduction in future rate of UK corporation tax 9 10 Effect of different tax rates in non-UK businesses 30 45 Group tax credit charge 35 118 Effective rate of tax based on Profit before tax 5.1% 18.0% The effective tax rate for both years is lower than the standard rate of UK corporation tax and the differences are explained above.
116 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 15.
Tax credit charge in the Group income statement continued 2012 2011 Re-presented Note 3 ii Reconciliation of the Group tax credit charge to the Benchmark tax charge US$m US$m Group tax credit charge 35 118 One-off tax credit 268 37 Tax attributable to exceptional items 1 4 Tax relief on total adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 42 39 Tax on Benchmark PBT 274 198 Benchmark PBT 1,128 920 Effective rate of tax based on Benchmark PBT 24.3% 21.5% In the year ended 31 March 2012, a one-off tax credit of US$268m has been recognised on the determination of certain liabilities in respect of historic positions and the further utilisation of tax losses.
In the year ended 31 March 2011, a one-off tax credit of US$37m was recognised in respect of the utilisation of tax losses.
These amounts have been excluded from the calculation of the effective rate of tax based on Benchmark PBT in view of their size and nature.
c Factors that may affect future tax charges In the foreseeable future, the Groups tax charge will continue to be influenced by the profile of profits earned in the different countries in which the Groups businesses operate and could be affected by changes in tax law.
In the UK, the main rate of corporation tax was reduced from 28% to 26% with effect from 1 April 2011 and to 24% with effect from 1 April 2012.
Further proposed reductions to the main rate will reduce it by 1% per annum to 22% from 1 April 2014.
Each of these further proposed reductions is expected to be separately enacted and has not yet been substantively enacted.
d Other information in respect of tax Tax recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity is detailed in note 16.
Details of the tax position in the Group balance sheet are given in note 35 and an analysis of the cash outflow in respect of tax is given in note 40 d. 16.
Tax recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity a Tax recognised in other comprehensive income 2012 2011 Before Tax After Before Tax After tax charge tax tax charge tax credit US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Actuarial gains - defined benefit pension plans 9 2 7 107 30 77 Fair value gains - available for sale financial assets --- 4 1 5 Currency translation differences 64 - 64 142 - 142 Other comprehensive income 55 2 57 253 29 224 Current tax - 1 Deferred tax 2 30 Other comprehensive income 2 29 b Tax credit recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners 2012 2011 US$m US$m Current tax 15 5 Deferred tax 5 15 20 20 The tax credit recognised directly in equity relates to employee share incentive plans.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 117 17.
Discontinued operations Experian has agreed to divest the Groups comparison shopping and lead generation businesses, and the results and cash flows of these businesses are accordingly classified as discontinued with comparative figures re-presented.
The results and cash flows of First American Real Estate Solutions LLC FARES were reported as discontinued in the year ended 31 March 2011. a Results for discontinued operations The loss before tax in respect of discontinued operations of US$9m 2011: profit of US$142m comprises a loss of US$9m 2011: profit of US$23m in respect of the comparison shopping and lead generation businesses and US$nil 2011: profit of US$119m in respect of FARES.
The loss for the financial year in respect of discontinued operations of US$6m 2011: profit of US$85m comprises US$6m 2011: profit of US$12m in respect of the comparison shopping and lead generation businesses and US$nil 2011: profit of US$73m in respect of FARES.
The results of the comparison shopping and lead generation businesses were: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Revenue 283 354 Labour costs 44 49 Data and information technology costs 7 8 Depreciation and amortisation 32 35 Marketing and customer acquisition costs 201 225 Other operating charges 8 14 Total operating expenses 292 331 Loss profit before tax 9 23 Tax credit charge 3 11 Loss profit for the financial year 6 12 Depreciation and amortisation includes amortisation of acquisition intangibles of US$27m 2011: US$30m.
The results of FARES for the year ended 31 March 2011 were: 2011 US$m Share of profits 5 Gain arising in connection with disposal of interest 123 Finance expense - financing fair value reversal arising on FAC buy-out option 9 Profit before tax 119 Tax charge 46 Profit for the financial year 73 In the period to the date of the exercise by The First American Corporation FAC of its buy-out option over Experians 20% interest in FARES on 22 April 2010, Experian used the equity method to account for its shareholding in FARES.
Experians share of FARES post-tax profits of US$5m was recognised and reported within results for discontinued operations.
The gain of US$123m which arose in connection with this disposal in the year ended 31 March 2011 represented the difference between the pre-tax amount of US$314m realised on the disposal of the interest in December 2010 and its book value of US$217m at the date of the exercise by FAC of its buy-out option, together with dividends of US$26m received after the exercise of the buy-out option.
In the period to 22 April 2010, the Group made net sales and recharges to FARES of US$2m.
Such net sales and recharges were made under normal commercial terms and conditions that would be available to third parties.
b Cash flows for discontinued operations Cash flows for the comparison shopping and lead generation businesses comprise: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Cash inflow from operating activities 2 55 Cash flow used in investing activities 3 5 1 50 118 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 17.
Discontinued operations continued The cash inflow from operating activities is stated after tax paid on the income of those businesses of US$9m 2011: US$3m.
There was a further cash inflow from operating activities of US$2m in respect of FARES in the year ended 31 March 2011 and this comprised dividends received from FARES to the date of the exercise by FAC of its buy-out option.
The net proceeds of US$279m arising on the disposal of the interest in FARES in the year ended 31 March 2011 were disclosed within net cash flows used in investing activities from continuing operations in the Group cash flow statement.
This amount includes dividends of US$26m received after the date of the exercise by FAC of its buy-out option and is stated after the settlement of tax arising on the disposal of US$61m.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by a weighted average number of ordinary shares being the ordinary shares in issue during the year less own shares held as treasury shares and in employee trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share reflects the potentially dilutive effect of employee share incentive plans.
The earnings figures used in the calculations are unchanged for diluted earnings per share.
2012 2011 Re-presented Note 3 Basic earnings per share US cents US cents Continuing and discontinued operations 66.2 57.9 Discontinued operations 0.6 8.5 Continuing operations 66.8 49.4 Exceptional items and total adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT, net of tax 12.1 17.5 Benchmark earnings per share from continuing operations non-GAAP measure 78.9 66.9 2012 2011 Re-presented Note 3 Diluted earnings per share US cents US cents Continuing and discontinued operations 65.1 56.7 Discontinued operations 0.6 8.3 Continuing operations 65.7 48.4 Exceptional items and total adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT, net of tax 11.8 17.1 Benchmark diluted earnings per share from continuing operations non-GAAP measure 77.5 65.5 2012 2011 Re-presented Note 3 Earnings attributable to owners of Experian plc US$m US$m Continuing and discontinued operations 655 581 Discontinued operations 6 85 Continuing operations 661 496 Exceptional items and total adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT, net of tax 119 174 Benchmark earnings attributable to owners of Experian plc non-GAAP measure 780 670 2012 2011 Earnings attributable to non-controlling interests US$m US$m Continuing and discontinued operations 63 42 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles attributable to non-controlling interests, net of tax 11 10 Benchmark earnings attributable to non-controlling interests non-GAAP measure 74 52 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 119 18.
Earnings per share continued 2012 2011 Re-presented Note 3 Reconciliation of Overall benchmark earnings to profit for the financial year US$m US$m Overall benchmark earnings non-GAAP measure 854 722 Loss profit from discontinued operations 6 85 Loss from exceptional items and total adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 130 184 Profit for the financial year 718 623 2012 2011 Weighted average number of ordinary shares million million Weighted average number of ordinary shares 989 1,002 Dilutive effect of share incentive awards 17 22 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,006 1,024 19.
Dividends 2012 2011 US cents US cents per share US$m per share US$m Amounts recognised and paid during the financial year: First interim - paid in January 2012 2011: January 2011 10.25 102 9.00 90 Second interim - paid in July 2011 2011: July 2010 19.00 188 16.00 161 Ordinary dividends paid on equity shares 29.25 290 25.00 251 Full year dividend for the financial year 32.00 317 28.00 278 A dividend of 21.75 US cents per ordinary share will be paid on 20 July 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 22 June 2012 and is not included as a liability in these financial statements.
This dividend, together with the first interim dividend of 10.25 US cents per ordinary share paid in January 2012, comprises the full year dividend for the financial year of 32.00 US cents.
Unless shareholders elect by 22 June 2012 to receive US dollars, their dividends will be paid in sterling at a rate per share calculated on the basis of the exchange rate from US dollars to sterling on 29 June 2012.
Pursuant to the Income Access Share arrangements put in place in October 2006, shareholders in the Company can elect to receive their dividends from a UK source the IAS election.
Shareholders who held 50,000 or fewer Experian shares i on the date of admission of the Companys shares to listing on the London Stock Exchange or ii in the case of shareholders who did not own shares at that time, on the first dividend record date after they became shareholders in the Company, will be deemed to have elected to receive their dividends under the IAS election arrangements unless they elect otherwise.
Shareholders who hold more than 50,000 shares and who wish to receive their dividends from a UK source must make an IAS election.
All elections remain in force indefinitely unless revoked.
Unless shareholders have made, or are deemed to have made, an IAS election, dividends will be received from an Irish source and will be taxed accordingly.
In the year ended 31 March 2012 the employee trusts waived their entitlements to dividends of US$4m 2011: US$3m.
There is no entitlement to dividend in respect of own shares held in treasury.
120 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 20.
Goodwill a Movements in goodwill 2012 2011 US$m US$m At 1 April 3,761 3,412 Differences on exchange 115 144 Additions through business combinations note 41 553 201 Adjustments to contingent consideration on prior year acquisitions 3 4 Additions through business combinations - total 550 205 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale note 42 33 - At 31 March 4,163 3,761 b Analysis of allocation of goodwill by CGU 2012 2011 US$m US$m North America 1,778 1,675 Latin America 1,322 1,116 UK and Ireland 686 611 EMEA 262 270 Asia Pacific 115 89 At 31 March 4,163 3,761 c Key assumptions for value-in-use calculations by CGU 2012 2011 Pre-tax Long-term Pre-tax Long-term WACC growth rate WACC growth rate % % % % North America 11.3 2.3 12.7 2.3 Latin America 14.8 7.0 16.4 6.7 UK and Ireland 9.1 2.3 10.4 2.3 EMEA 11.4 4.3 11.2 4.3 Asia Pacific 11.6 5.3 12.0 5.1 Further details of the principles used in determining the basis of allocation by CGU and annual impairment testing are given in note 6.
There have been no impairments of goodwill in the current or prior years.
At 31 March 2012, the recoverable amount of the Asia Pacific CGU exceeds the carrying value by approximately US$80m and an increase in the pre-tax WACC of 1.3% or a reduction in the long-term growth rate of 1.9% would reduce the value-in-use of its goodwill to an amount equal to its carrying value.
The recoverable amount of the other CGUs exceed their carrying value on the basis of the above assumptions and any reasonably possible changes thereof.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 121 21.
Other intangible assets Customer Other Total Databases Internal Internally Total and advertiser acquisition acquisition use generated relationships intangibles intangibles software software US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2011 928 380 1,308 1,039 228 256 2,831 Differences on exchange 31 20 51 46 7 3 107 Additions through business combinations note 41 236 74 310 322 317 Other additions - - - 218 55 97 370 Disposals 18 8 26 74 15 27 142 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale note 42 188 37 225 - 6 3 234 At 31 March 2012 927 389 1,316 1,140 257 322 3,035 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 1 April 2011 434 186 620 611 118 108 1,457 Differences on exchange 11 11 22 24 4 1 51 Charge for the year 77 73 150 169 32 36 387 Disposals 18 8 26 74 15 26 141 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale note 42 159 35 194 - 4 1 199 At 31 March 2012 323 205 528 682 127 116 1,453 Net book amount at 31 March 2011 494 194 688 428 110 148 1,374 Net book amount at 31 March 2012 604 184 788 458 130 206 1,582 Customer Other Total Databases Internal Internally Total and advertiser acquisition acquisition use generated relationships intangibles intangibles software software US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2010 825 318 1,143 918 195 177 2,433 Differences on exchange 41 19 60 39 10 7 116 Additions through business combinations 64 52 116 - - 1 117 Other additions - - - 175 48 77 300 Disposals 2 9 11 93 25 6 135 At 31 March 2011 928 380 1,308 1,039 228 256 2,831 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 1 April 2010 338 143 481 525 109 85 1,200 Differences on exchange 13 8 21 24 5 4 54 Charge for the year 85 44 129 154 29 24 336 Disposals 2 9 11 92 25 5 133 At 31 March 2011 434 186 620 611 118 108 1,457 Net book amount at 31 March 2010 487 175 662 393 86 92 1,233 Net book amount at 31 March 2011 494 194 688 428 110 148 1,374 Other acquisition intangibles include trademarks and licences, trade names and completed technology.
122 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 22.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold Short Plant and Total properties leasehold equipment properties US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2011 254 132 492 878 Differences on exchange 6 - 8 14 Additions through business combinations note 41 9 - 7 16 Other additions -10 87 97 Disposals 4 4 67 75 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale note 42 - 1 17 18 At 31 March 2012 253 137 494 884 Accumulated depreciation At 1 April 2011 63 38 327 428 Differences on exchange 1 - 6 7 Charge for the year 77 65 79 Disposals 1 4 64 69 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale note 42 - 1 9 10 At 31 March 2012 68 40 313 421 Net book amount at 31 March 2011 191 94 165 450 Net book amount at 31 March 2012 185 97 181 463 Freehold Short Plant and Total properties leasehold equipment properties US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2010 256 123 516 895 Differences on exchange 13 - 14 27 Additions 4 13 57 74 Disposals 19 4 95 118 At 31 March 2011 254 132 492 878 Accumulated depreciation At 1 April 2010 66 36 342 444 Differences on exchange 3 - 7 10 Charge for the year 7 6 68 81 Disposals 13 4 90 107 At 31 March 2011 63 38 327 428 Net book amount at 31 March 2010 190 87 174 451 Net book amount at 31 March 2011 191 94 165 450 The net book amount of assets held under finance lease agreements and capitalised in plant and equipment is US$8m 2011: US$3m.
At the end of such agreements the Group has the option to purchase the equipment at a beneficial price.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 123 23.
Investments in associates 2012 2011 US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 27 243 Differences on exchange - 1 Additions through business combinations note 41 11 - Share of loss profit after tax including a profit of US$5m in 2011 in respect of FARES 2 3 Dividends received including US$2m in 2011 in respect of FARES 1 3 Acquisition of controlling stake in associate 22 - Disposal of interest in FARES - 217 At 31 March 13 27 24.
Inventories 2012 2011 US$m US$m Work in progress 2 - Finished goods 9 14 11 14 25.
Trade and other receivables a Analysis of trade and other receivables Current Non-current Current Non-current 2012 2012 2011 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade receivables 684 - 668 - Provision for impairment of trade receivables 37 - 47 - Other provisions in respect of trade receivables - mainly credit note provisions 25 - 16 - Trade receivables - net 622 - 605 - Amounts owed by associates 7 - 4 - VAT recoverable 2 - 2 - Other prepayments and accrued income 279 13 290 17 910 13 901 17 The accounting policies for loans and receivables have been applied to financial instruments of US$698m 2011: US$679m within the above items.
VAT recoverable of US$2m 2011: US$2m and prepayments of US$223m 2011: US$237m are not regarded as financial instruments.
There is no material difference between the fair value of trade and other receivables and the book value stated above.
All non-current receivables are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
Amounts owed by associates are unsecured and settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received in the year in connection with the Groups trading with such entities.
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of such amounts.
124 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 25.
Trade and other receivables continued b Trade and other receivables by denomination of currency Current Non-current Current Non-current 2012 2012 2011 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US dollar 310 6 294 13 Sterling 234 - 236 - Brazilian real 135 3 152 - Euro 101 - 114 1 Other 128 4 107 3 910 13 901 17 c Analysis of trade receivables neither past due nor impaired 2012 2011 US$m US$m New customers of less than six months standing 37 35 Existing customers of more than six months standing with no defaults in the past 373 370 410 405 None of these trade receivables has been renegotiated in the year 2011: US$nil.
There is no evidence of impairment in respect of the above amounts.
d Analysis of trade receivables past due but not considered impaired 2012 2011 US$m US$m Up to three months past due 175 167 Three to six months past due 21 14 Over six months past due 12 13 208 194 Of the above amounts, trade receivables of US$nil 2011: US$2m have been renegotiated in the year.
e Analysis of trade receivables considered partially impaired and provided for 2012 2011 US$m US$m Up to three months past due 7 7 Three to six months past due 3 8 Over six months past due 31 38 41 53 Impairment provision 37 47 4 6 The other classes within trade and other receivables at the balance sheet dates do not include any impaired assets.
f Movements in the impairment provision 2012 2011 US$m US$m At 1 April 47 38 Differences on exchange 4 5 Provision for receivables impairment 24 34 Provision utilised in respect of debts written off 18 20 Unused amounts reversed 12 10 At 31 March 37 47 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 125 26.
Cash and cash equivalents a Analysis of cash and cash equivalents 2012 2011 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 130 78 Short-term investments 124 330 254 408 The effective interest rate for cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 2012 is 4.7% 2011: 2.8%.
There is no material difference between the fair value of cash and cash equivalents and the book value stated above.
b Analysis by external credit rating 2012 2011 US$m US$m A rated 144 327 B rated 80 60 Counterparty holding of more than US$2m 224 387 Counterparty holding of less than US$2m 30 21 254 408 The above analysis does not include bank deposits of US$14m in 2011 held with an A rated counterparty as collateral against derivative contracts and reported within other financial assets see note 31 a.
Trade and other payables Current Non-current Current Non-current 2012 2012 2011 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade payables 159 2 134 - VAT and other equivalent taxes payable 41 - 40 - Social security costs 85 - 92 - Accruals and deferred income 807 40 819 21 Other payables 118 1 95 - 1,210 43 1,180 21 The accounting policies for other financial liabilities have been applied to financial instruments of US$537m 2011: US$504m within the above items.
VAT and other taxes payable of US$41m 2011: US$40m, social security costs of US$85m 2011: US$92m and accruals and deferred income of US$590m 2011: US$565m are not regarded as financial instruments.
Following a review during the year, the classification as at 31 March 2011 has been restated to more appropriately reflect the treatment of the deferred income within these items.
At 31 March 2011 an additional amount of US$314m in respect of this item had previously been classified as a financial instrument.
Contractual undiscounted cash flows in respect of the financial instruments are shown in note 32.
There is no material difference between the fair value of trade and other payables and the book value stated above.
All non-current payables are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
126 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 28.
Loans and borrowings a Analysis by carrying amounts Current Non-current Current Non-current 2012 2012 2011 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m 334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 - 571 - 576 400m 4.75% Euronotes 2018 - 642 - 709 500m 4.75% Euronotes 2020 - 729 - 701 Bank loans 12 170 3 1 Finance lease obligations 1 - 3 1 13 2,179 6 1,921 The effective interest rates for bonds approximate to the coupon rates indicated above.
There is no material difference between the carrying values of the loans and borrowings and their fair values.
Other than finance lease obligations, the borrowings are unsecured.
b Analysis by contractual repricing dates 2012 2011 US$m US$m Less than one year 13 8 One to two years 671 - Two to three years 70 576 Over five years 1,438 1,343 2,192 1,927 c Analysis by currency 2012 2011 US$m US$m US dollar 1,618 1,348 Sterling 571 576 Brazilian real - 3 Other 3 - 2,192 1,927 The above analysis takes account of cross currency swaps.
d Undrawn committed borrowing facilities 2012 2011 US$m US$m Undrawn committed borrowing facilities expire: Between two and three years 167 - Between three and four years 1,980 - Between four and five years - 1,700 2,147 1,700 These facilities are at floating interest rates and expire at various dates within the above years.
They are for general corporate purposes, including the financing of acquisitions.
e New borrowing facilities During the course of 2012 new bilateral borrowing facilities of US$617m were arranged, with a spread of maturity dates.
f Covenants The only significant financial covenant in connection with the borrowing facilities is that EBIT must exceed three times net interest expense.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 127 29.
Analysis of net debt non-GAAP measure a Analysis of net debt 2012 2011 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents 254 408 Bank deposits with maturity greater than three months - 14 Derivatives hedging loans and borrowings 103 6 Debt due within one year 12 3 Finance lease obligations 1 4 Debt due after more than one year 2,162 1,910 Net debt 1,818 1,501 b Net debt by balance sheet caption 2012 2011 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents 254 408 Loans and borrowings current 13 6 Loans and borrowings non-current 2,179 1,921 Net debt by balance sheet caption 1,938 1,519 Bank deposits within financial assets - 14 Accrued interest excluded from net debt - 10 Derivatives hedging loans and borrowings 120 6 Net debt 1,818 1,501 30.
Available for sale financial assets a Available for sale financial assets by carrying amount 2012 2011 US$m US$m Listed equity securities - UK sterling denominated 37 36 Other trade investments - principally UK and sterling denominated - 6 37 42 The accounting policies for available for sale financial assets have been applied to the above items.
Other trade investments held at 31 March 2011 were acquired during that year in connection with a business disposal and realised during the year ended 31 March 2012 see note 13. b Movements on available for sale financial assets 2012 2011 US$m US$m At 1 April 42 33 Additions 1 3 Reclassification of held for sale assets - 3 Disposals 6 1 Fair value gains - 4 At 31 March 37 42 128 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 31.
Other financial assets and liabilities a Analysis of other financial assets and liabilities Current Non-current Current Non-current 2012 2012 2011 2011 Assets US$m US$m US$m US$m Bank deposits - - 14 - Derivative financial instruments: Fair value hedge of borrowings interest rate swaps -33 -37 Fair value hedge of borrowings cross currency swaps - 80 - - Derivatives used for hedging - 113 - 37 Non-hedging derivatives equity swaps - 4 5 - Non-hedging derivatives foreign exchange contracts 7 - 1 - Non-hedging derivatives interest rate swaps - - - 2 Assets at fair value through profit and loss 7 4 6 2 Derivative financial instruments 7 117 6 39 Other derivatives - 6 - 6 Total other financial assets 7 123 20 45 Bank deposits at 31 March 2011 comprised amounts held with an A rated counterparty as collateral against derivative contracts.
Current Non-current Current Non-current 2012 2012 2011 2011 Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments: Derivatives used for hedging - fair value hedge of borrowings cross currency swaps - - - 31 Non-hedging derivatives foreign exchange contracts 3 - 5 - Non-hedging derivatives interest rate swaps 3 32 8 20 Liabilities at fair value through profit and loss 6 32 13 20 Derivative financial instruments 6 32 13 51 Put option in respect of Serasa non-controlling interest 1,092 - - 870 Put options in respect of other non-controlling interests - 32 - 34 Total other financial liabilities 1,098 64 13 955 The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied as appropriate to the above items.
Amounts recognised in the Group income statement in connection with the Groups hedging instruments are disclosed in note 14.
The net present value of the put option in respect of the Serasa non-controlling interest is reported within current liabilities, rather than noncurrent liabilities, at 31 March 2012 as the put may be exercised from June 2012.
The change in value during the year ended 31 March 2012 comprised a financing fair value loss of US$325m reported in the Group income statement and a currency translation gain of US$103m taken directly to the statement of comprehensive income.
There is no material difference between the fair values of these assets and liabilities and the book values stated above.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 129 31.
Other financial assets and liabilities continued b Fair value and notional principal amounts of derivative financial instruments 2012 2011 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cross currency swaps 80 1,347 - - - - 31 1,347 Interest rate swaps 33 759 35 1,315 39 646 28 864 Equity swaps 4 21 - - 5 14 - 10 Foreign exchange contracts 7 497 3 256 1 272 5 407 124 2,624 38 1,571 45 932 64 2,628 c Maturity of derivative financial liabilities - contractual undiscounted cash flows Less than 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 Over 5 Total At 31 March 2012 1 year years years years years years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Settled on a net basis - interest rate swaps 16 12 9 6 2 1 46 Settled on a gross basis: Outflows for foreign exchange contracts 281 ----- 281 Inflows for foreign exchange contracts 279 ----- 279 Settled on a gross basis 2 - - - - - 2 Cash outflows 18 12 9 6 2 1 48 Less than 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 Over 5 Total At 31 March 2011 1 year years years years years years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Settled on a net basis - interest rate swaps 6 4 9 6 3 - 2 Settled on a gross basis: Outflows for cross currency swaps 25 24 24 24 24 1,428 1,549 Inflows for cross currency swaps 58 64 64 64 64 1,578 1,892 Outflows for foreign exchange contracts 682 - - - - - 682 Inflows for foreign exchange contracts 679 - - - - - 679 Settled on a gross basis 30 40 40 40 40 150 340 Cash inflows 24 44 49 34 37 150 338 The table above analyses the derivative financial liabilities into maturity groupings based on the period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, they differ from the carrying values and fair values.
130 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 32.
Maturity profile of financial liabilities - contractual undiscounted cash flows Less than 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 Over 5 Total At 31 March 2012 1 year years years years years years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 275 627 62 62 62 1,462 2,550 Net settled derivative financial instruments note 31 c 16 12 9621 46 Gross settled derivative financial instruments note 31 c 2----- 2 Put options in respect of Serasa and other non-controlling interests 1,092 23 - 9 - - 1,124 Trade and other payables 518 5 3 2 3 6 537 1,903 667 74 79 67 1,469 4,259 Less than 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 Over 5 Total At 31 March 2011 1 year years years years years years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 96 95 631 64 64 1,578 2,528 Net settled derivative financial instruments note 31 c 6 4 9 6 3 - 2 Gross settled derivative financial instruments note 31 c 30 40 40 40 40 150 340 Put options in respect of Serasa and other non-controlling interests 4 998 37 - - - 1,039 Trade and other payables 476 7 - - - - 483 552 1,056 619 30 27 1,428 3,712 Cash flows in respect of VAT, other taxes payable, social security costs and accruals are excluded from the analysis for trade and other payables.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 131 33.
Share-based payments The Group has a number of equity settled, share-based employee incentive plans.
Details of the arrangements under which options are granted and awards made are given below, together with information on their valuation and cost.
The price of the Companys ordinary shares is quoted in sterling and accordingly option, award and share prices are disclosed in sterling.
a Share options i Summary of arrangements and valuations Options have only been granted in the current and prior year in respect of Experian Sharesave Plans and the amounts involved are not significant.
Accordingly disclosures relating to the application of valuation techniques, inputs into valuation models and fair values of options granted have been omitted.
Information in respect of options granted in prior years has been previously provided in the relevant annual reports.
There were no grants of options under the Experian Share Option Plan in the year ended 31 March 2012 and the year ended 31 March 2011 but options remain outstanding under this plan.
Fully vested options also exist under The GUS plc North America Executive Stock Option Plan, a former GUS share option plan, and these options had a maximum term of six years from the date of grant.
ii Movement in number of options and weighted average exercise price Number Price Number Price 2012 2012 2011 2011 million million Options outstanding at 1 April 24.8 4.27 35.3 4.42 Grant of options 1.1 6.16 0.7 4.85 1 Forfeiture and cancellation of options 0.9 4.74 1.8 4.01 2 Exercise of options 9.9 3.87 8.9 4.94 Expiry of options 0.1 4.85 0.5 4.91 Options outstanding at 31 March 15.0 4.63 24.8 4.27 Options exercisable at 31 March 3.8 4.54 5.9 5.16 1.
For plans of a save as you earn nature, forfeitures include non-leavers who have not completed the savings requirement.
The weighted average share price of options exercised during the year was 7.84 2011: 6.90.
Options exercisable at 31 March 2012 include 0.1 million shares 2011: 0.1 million shares in respect of the Experian Share Option Plan and 3.7 million shares 2011: 5.8 million shares in respect of Experian Sharesave Plans.
iii Details of options outstanding At 31 March 2012 At 31 March 2011 Range of Number Weighted Weighted average remaining lives Number Weighted Weighted average remaining lives exercise prices average average exercise price Expected Contractual exercise price Expected Contractual million years years million years years 2-3 0.7 2.91 1.3 1.7 2.1 2.91 1.1 1.5 3-4 1.6 3.36 0.4 6.3 6.5 3.23 1.2 6.9 4-5 9.8 4.66 1.1 9.1 12.0 4.65 1.9 7.1 5-6 1.9 5.39 0.1 6.6 4.0 5.41 0.2 4.4 6-7 1.0 6.18 2.7 3.3 0.2 6.13 0.3 6.1 15.0 4.63 24.8 4.27 132 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 33.
Share-based payments continued b Share awards i Summary of arrangements Experian Co-Investment Plan Experian Performance Share Plan Experian Performance Share Plan conditional awards unconditional awards Nature of arrangement Grant of shares Grant of shares Grant of shares Vesting conditions: Service period 3 years 3 years 3 years Performance 50% Benchmark profit 50% or 75% Benchmark profit n a performance of Group assessed performance of Group assessed against specified targets against specified targets 50% Cumulative operating 50% or 25% Distribution cash flow percentage determined by ranking Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to a comparator group Expected outcome of meeting Benchmark profit - 100% Benchmark profit 91% n a performance criteria at grant date Cumulative operating TSR Range from 30% to 61% cash flow 100% Maximum term 3 years 3 years 3 years Expected departures at grant date 5% 5% 15% ii Performance conditions and other details Experian Co-Investment Plan The grant date for the Experian Co-Investment Plan is the start of the financial year in which performance is assessed.
This is before the number of shares to be awarded is determined but the underlying value of the award is known, subject to the outcome of the performance condition.
The value of awarded shares reflects the performance outcome at the date of their issue to participants and is recognised over a four-year period.
The method of settlement for this plan is share distribution.
The Benchmark profit performance condition the profit condition for this plan required Benchmark PBT growth to exceed 3% per annum over a three-year period for the award made in the year ended 31 March 2010.
Thereafter the profit condition only attaches to 50% of the award with the performance condition for the balance based on cumulative operating cash flow over a three-year period the cash flow condition.
The range of conditions for the awards are set out below.
Profit condition Cash flow condition Year of award Target Maximum Target Maximum Year ended 31 March 2012 7% per annum 14% per annum US$3,000m US$3,400m Year ended 31 March 2011 5% per annum 11% per annum US$2,900m US$3,300m The period of assessment commences at the beginning of the financial year of grant.
These are not market-based performance conditions as defined by IFRS 2.
Experian Performance Share Plan The range of Benchmark profit performance conditions for awards under this plan are set out below and require Benchmark PBT growth at the stated percentages over a three-year period.
Further unconditional awards have been made under this plan since 1 April 2010.
Profit condition Year of award Target Maximum Year ended 31 March 2012 7% per annum 14% per annum Year ended 31 March 2011 5% per annum 11% per annum Year ended 31 March 2010 4% per annum 8% per annum The Experian Performance Share Plan TSR condition is considered a market-based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
In valuing the awarded shares, TSR is evaluated using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations for comparator companies measured over the three-year period preceding valuation and an implied volatility for Experian plc shares.
The method of settlement for all awards under this plan is share distribution.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 133 33.
Share-based payments continued iii Information relating to share grant valuation techniques Share grants are valued by reference to the market price on the day of award with no modification made for dividend distributions or other factors as participants are entitled to dividend distributions on awarded shares.
iv Movement in and analysis of number of share awards outstanding 2012 2011 million million At 1 April 20.9 16.2 Grant of awards 7.4 9.4 Forfeiture of awards 2.3 1.0 Vesting of awards 7.7 3.7 At 31 March 18.3 20.9 Analysis by plan: Experian Co-Investment Plan 8.2 6.8 Experian Performance Share Plan conditional awards 6.7 10.2 Experian Performance Share Plan unconditional awards 4.8 2.5 At 31 March 18.3 20.9 The fair values of share awards are calculated using the assumptions, and adjusted for the performance conditions, noted above.
Awards granted in the year had a weighted average fair value of 7.91 2011: 6.32. c Cost of share-based compensation 2012 2011 US$m US$m Share options 9 14 Share awards 56 50 Total expense recognised in Group income statement all equity settled 65 64 Reported as follows: Employee benefit costs within Benchmark PBT 60 51 Charge in respect of demerger-related equity incentive plans excluded from Benchmark PBT 5 13 Total expense recognised in Group income statement all equity settled 65 64 134 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 34.
Retirement benefit assets and obligations a Retirement benefit arrangements i Funded pension arrangements The Group operates dened benefit and dened contribution pension plans in a number of countries.
A dened benefit pension plan defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A dened contribution pension plan defines the amount of contributions that are paid by the Group into an independently administered fund.
The Groups principal defined benefit plan is the Experian Pension Scheme which provides benefits for certain UK employees but was closed to new entrants in the year ended 31 March 2009.
The Group provides a defined contribution plan, the Experian Money Purchase Pension Plan, to other eligible UK employees.
Both plans are governed by trust deeds which ensure that their finances and governance are independent from those of the Group.
Employees in the USA and Brazil have the option to join locally provided defined contribution plans.
There are no other material funded pension arrangements.
The Experian Pension Scheme has rules which specify the benefits to be paid and is financed accordingly.
A full actuarial funding valuation of this plan is carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2010 by independent, qualified actuaries, Towers Watson Limited, using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method of valuation the current service cost will increase as members approach retirement due to the ageing active membership of the plan.
There was a surplus at the date of the 2010 full actuarial valuation and accordingly no deficit repayment contributions are currently required.
The next full valuation will be carried out as at 31 March 2013. ii Unfunded pension arrangements The Group has had unfunded pension arrangements in place for a number of years designed to ensure that certain directors and senior managers in the UK who are affected by the earnings cap are placed in broadly the same position as those who are not.
Additionally there are unfunded arrangements for one current director of the Company and certain former directors and employees of Experian Finance plc.
Certain of these unfunded arrangements in the UK have been secured by the grant of charges to an independent trustee over an independently managed portfolio of marketable securities owned by the Group.
The amount of assets so charged is adjusted periodically to keep the ratio of assets charged to the discounted value of the accrued benefits secured close to the corresponding ratio in the Experian Pension Scheme.
The value of such assets at 31 March 2012 was US$35m 2011: US$36m and these are reported as available for sale financial assets note 30.
Further details of the pension arrangements for directors appear in the audited part of the report on directors remuneration.
iii Post-retirement healthcare arrangements The Group operates plans which provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain retired employees and their dependant relatives.
The principal plan relates to former employees in the UK and, under this plan, the Group has undertaken to meet the cost of post-retirement healthcare for all eligible former employees who retired prior to 1 April 1994 and their dependants.
b Retirement benefit assets and obligations disclosures The disclosures required by IAS 19, which relate to the Groups UK defined benefit pension arrangements and post-retirement healthcare obligations only, are as follows: i Retirement benefit assets obligations recognised in the Group balance sheet 2012 2011 US$m US$m Retirement benefit assets obligations - funded plans: Fair value of funded plans assets 957 913 Present value of funded plans liabilities 827 807 Surplus in the funded plans 130 106 Retirement benefit obligations - unfunded plans: Present value of unfunded pension obligations 41 39 Liability for post-retirement healthcare 12 12 Retirement benefit obligations - unfunded plans 53 51 Net retirement benefit assets 77 55 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 135 34.
Retirement benefit assets and obligations continued ii Movements in net retirement benefit assets recognised in the Group balance sheet 2012 2011 US$m US$m At 1 April 55 88 Differences on exchange - 1 Income recognised in Group income statement 2 25 Actuarial gains recognised within other comprehensive income 9 107 Contributions paid by the Group 11 10 At 31 March 77 55 iii Present value of the total defined benefit obligations 2012 2011 Movements in the year US$m US$m At 1 April 858 910 Differences on exchange 3 48 Current service cost 9 10 Credit in respect of past service costs - 29 Interest on plans liabilities 46 50 Actuarial losses gains on liabilities 7 97 Contributions paid by employees 4 4 Benefits paid 41 38 At 31 March 880 858 2012 2011 Analysis of the present value of the total defined benefit obligations US$m US$m Funded arrangements 827 807 Unfunded arrangements 53 51 At 31 March 880 858 iv Movements in the fair value of the plans assets 2012 2011 US$m US$m At 1 April 913 822 Differences on exchange 3 49 Expected return on plans assets 57 56 Actuarial gains on assets 16 10 Actual return on plans assets 73 66 Contributions paid by the Group 11 10 Contributions paid by employees 4 4 Benefits paid 41 38 At 31 March 957 913 136 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 34.
Retirement benefit assets and obligations continued v Amounts recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income 2012 2011 US$m US$m Labour costs: Current service cost 9 10 Credit in respect of past service costs - 29 Charge credit included in labour costs 9 19 Finance income expense : Expected return on plans assets 57 56 Interest on plans liabilities 46 50 Net finance income 11 6 Total credit to Group income statement 2 25 Actuarial gains recognised within other comprehensive income 9 107 Total credit recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income 11 132 Actuarial gains recognised within other comprehensive income comprise: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Losses gains on liabilities 7 97 Gains on assets 16 10 Total gains recognised within other comprehensive income 9 107 During the year ended 31 March 2011, the UK Government changed to the use of the Consumer Prices Index the CPI rather than the Retail Prices Index as the inflation measure for determining the minimum pension increases to be applied to statutory index-linked features of retirement benefits.
As a result of using the lower CPI rate, there was a reduction in obligations with a credit in respect of past service costs of US$29m recognised in the Group income statement and a further reduction in obligations of US$18m included within the total actuarial gain of US$107m recognised within other comprehensive income.
vi Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Group retained earnings reserve 2012 2011 US$m US$m Gains in Experian plans 28 19 Losses in Home Retail Group plans recognised prior to the demerger 81 81 Total charge to the Group retained earnings reserve 53 62 vii Future contributions Contributions expected to be paid to the Experian Pension Scheme during the year ending 31 March 2013 are US$9m by the Group and US$4m by its employees.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 137 34.
Retirement benefit assets and obligations continued viii Actuarial assumptions The valuations used at 31 March 2012 have been based on the most recent actuarial valuations, updated by Towers Watson Limited to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
The assumptions for discount rate, salary increases and mortality, used to calculate the present value of the defined benefit obligations, all have a significant effect on the accounting valuation.
Changes to these assumptions in the light of prevailing conditions may have a significant impact on future valuations.
Principal actuarial assumptions: 2012 2011 % % Discount rate 5.2 5.6 Rate of inflation based on the Retail Prices Index 3.3 3.5 Rate of inflation based on the Consumer Prices Index 2.3 2.8 Rate of increase for salaries 4.3 4.5 Rate of increase for pensions in payment element based on the Retail Prices Index where cap is 5% 3.1 3.4 Rate of increase for pensions in payment element based on the Consumer Prices Index where cap is 5% 2.3 2.8 Rate of increase for pensions in payment element based on the Consumer Prices Index where cap is 3% 1.9 2.3 Rate of increase for pensions in deferment 2.3 2.8 Rate of increase for medical costs 6.8 7.5 Expected return on plan assets 5.7 6.6 The principal financial assumption is the real discount rate, being the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
The discount rate is based on the market yields on high quality corporate bonds of appropriate currency and term to the defined benefit obligations.
In the case of the Experian Pension Scheme, the obligations are primarily in sterling and have a maturity of some 18 years.
If the discount rate increased decreased by 0.1%, the defined benefit obligations would decrease increase by approximately US$17m and the annual current service cost would remain unchanged.
The rates of increase for pensions in payment reflect the separate arrangements applying to different groups of Experians pensioners.
The expected return on plan assets has been determined by considering the mix of returns anticipated on the assets held in accordance with the current investment policy.
Expected yields on fixed interest securities are generally based on gross redemption yields.
Expected returns on equities and other assets reflect the long-term real rates of return experienced in the respective markets.
Mortality assumptions - average life expectation on retirement at age 65 in normal health: 2012 2011 years years For a male currently aged 65 22.5 22.2 For a female currently aged 65 23.6 23.4 For a male currently aged 50 23.5 23.4 For a female currently aged 50 24.8 24.7 The valuation assumes that mortality will be in line with the standard SAPS S1 All tables based on each members year of birth, with a 95% adjustment factor applied to the underlying mortality rates for males and a 106% adjustment factor for females and projected in accordance with the Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI 2009 Core Projection Model with a long-term improvement rate of 1% per annum.
This includes a specific allowance for anticipated future improvements in life expectancy CMI projections.
An increase in assumed life expectancy of 0.1 years would increase the defined benefit obligations at 31 March 2012 by approximately US$4m.
The valuation in respect of post-retirement healthcare benefits additionally assumes a rate of increase for medical costs.
If this rate increased decreased by 1.0% per annum, the obligation would increase decrease by US$1m and the finance expense would remain unchanged.
138 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 34.
Retirement benefit assets and obligations continued ix Assets of the Groups defined benefit plans at fair value 2012 2012 2011 2011 US$m % US$m % Equities 457 48 506 55 Fixed interest securities 444 46 353 39 Other 56 6 54 6 957 100 913 100 x Historical information 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Fair value of plans assets 957 913 822 595 1,045 Present value of defined benefit obligations 880 858 910 653 913 Net pension assets obligations 77 55 88 58 132 Experience adjustment on plans assets - gains losses 16 10 178 236 101 Experience adjustment on defined benefit obligations - gains losses 2 57 1 1 8 The Groups retirement benefit assets and obligations are denominated primarily in sterling.
Deferred and current tax a Deferred tax 2012 2011 i Net deferred tax liabilities US$m US$m At 1 April 121 37 Differences on exchange 14 8 Tax credit charge in the Group income statement - continuing operations note 15 84 62 Tax charge in the Group income statement - discontinued operations 2 2 Business combinations note 41 73 10 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income note 16 a 2 30 Tax recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners note 16 b 5 15 Transfer in respect of liabilities held for sale note 42 38 - Other transfers 2 13 At 31 March 59 121 Net deferred tax liabilities are presented in the Group balance sheet as: Deferred tax assets 320 159 Deferred tax liabilities 379 280 At 31 March 59 121 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 139 35.
Deferred and current tax continued ii Gross deferred tax assets Movements in gross deferred tax assets, without taking into consideration the offsetting of assets and liabilities within the same tax jurisdiction, comprise: Accelerated Intangibles Share Tax losses Other Total depreciation incentive temporary plans differences US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2011 8 26 56 117 161 368 Differences on exchange - - - - 22 22 Tax credit charge in the Group income statement 16 2 3 183 64 130 Business combinations note 41 - - - - 26 26 Tax recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners - - 5 - - 5 Other transfers - - - - 5 5 At 31 March 2012 24 24 58 300 140 546 Accelerated Intangibles Share Tax losses Other Total depreciation incentive temporary plans differences US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2010 20 62 39 118 158 397 Differences on exchange 1 - - - 8 9 Tax credit charge in the Group income statement 13 36 2 8 15 24 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income - - - - 30 30 Tax recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners - - 15 - - 15 Other transfers - - - 9 10 1 At 31 March 2011 8 26 56 117 161 368 Deferred tax assets are recognised in respect of tax losses carried forward and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of US$123m 2011: US$289m in respect of losses that can be carried forward against future taxable income and deferred tax assets of US$15m 2011: US$17m in respect of capital losses that can be carried forward against future taxable gains.
These losses are available indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date there were deferred tax assets expected to reverse within the next year of US$90m 2011: US$71m.
140 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 35.
Deferred and current tax continued iii Gross deferred tax liabilities Movements in gross deferred tax liabilities, without taking into consideration the offsetting of liabilities and assets within the same tax jurisdiction, comprise: Accelerated Intangibles Other Total tax temporary depreciation differences US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2011 33 437 19 489 Differences on exchange - 4 4 8 Tax charge in the Group income statement 15 32 1 48 Business combinations - 99 - 99 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income note 16 a - - 2 2 Transfer in respect of liabilities held for sale note 42 - 38 - 38 Other transfers - 3 - 3 At 31 March 2012 48 531 26 605 Accelerated Intangibles Other Total tax temporary depreciation differences US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2010 36 362 36 434 Differences on exchange - 14 3 17 Tax charge credit in the Group income statement 3 37 6 40 Business combinations - 10 - 10 Other transfers - 14 26 12 At 31 March 2011 33 437 19 489 Deferred tax liabilities of US$1,938m 2011: US$2,052m have not been recognised for the withholding and other taxes that would arise on the distribution to Experian plc of the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiary undertakings.
As these earnings are continually reinvested, no such tax is expected to arise in the foreseeable future.
At the balance sheet date there were deferred tax liabilities expected to reverse within the next year of US$41m 2011: US$45m.
iv UK deferred tax balances In the UK, the main rate of corporation tax has been reduced to 24% with effect from 1 April 2012.
Deferred tax balances held in the UK have therefore been provided at 24%.
Further proposed reductions to this rate will reduce it by 1% per annum to 22% from 1 April 2014.
A provision rate of 26% was used at 31 March 2011.
The effect of these further reductions is expected to be to increase the tax charge by US$11m for each of the next two financial years.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 141 35.
Deferred and current tax continued b Net current tax liabilities 2012 2011 US$m US$m At 1 April 124 150 Differences on exchange 1 1 Tax charge in the Group income statement - continuing operations note 15 49 56 Tax credit charge in the Group income statement - discontinued operations 5 55 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income note 16 a - 1 Tax recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners note 16 b 15 5 Tax paid note 40 d 116 149 Business combinations note 41 5 - Disposal of subsidiaries - 2 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale note 42 5 - Other transfers 2 13 At 31 March 46 124 Net current tax liabilities are presented in the Group balance sheet as: Current tax assets 10 8 Current tax liabilities 56 132 At 31 March 46 124 36.
Provisions 2012 2011 Restructuring Other Total Restructuring Other Total costs liabilities costs liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 11 55 66 18 55 73 Differences on exchange - 6 6 1 5 6 Business combinations note 41 -33 --- Amount charged in the year -88 12 7 19 Utilised 8 16 24 20 12 32 Impact of discount rate movement -11 --- At 31 March 3 45 48 11 55 66 Disclosed within current liabilities 2 36 38 7 40 47 Disclosed within non-current liabilities 1 9 10 4 15 19 At 31 March 3 45 48 11 55 66 Other liabilities principally comprise liabilities of Serasa, in connection with local legal and tax issues, which were primarily recognised on the acquisition of that company.
Adjustments to such amounts are made as the exposures are concluded.
142 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 37.
Called up share capital and share premium account Called up share capital of US$102m 2011: US$102m comprises the nominal value of the Companys issued share capital.
Movements in the current and prior year are summarised in the Group statement of changes in total equity.
Further details relating to the share capital at the balance sheet dates, together with details of ordinary shares issued during the year and since 31 March 2012, are contained in note N to the parent company financial statements.
The share premium account of US$1,471m 2011: US$1,460m comprises the amount received in excess of the nominal value of the shares issued by way of i the share offer in October 2006, net of expenses, and ii the subsequent issue of ordinary shares in connection with employee share incentive plans.
The difference between the amounts shown in the Group and parent company financial statements in respect of called up share capital and the share premium account arose due to the translation of the sterling amounts into US dollars at the different exchange rates on the different translation dates.
The differences for share capital and the share premium account, with the higher numbers being reported in the Group financial statements, are US$23m and US$329m respectively at both balance sheet dates.
Retained earnings and other reserves Retained earnings comprise net profits retained in the Group after the payment of equity dividends.
In the Groups statement of changes in total equity, the movements in retained earnings in the year ended 31 March 2012 include US$7m 2011: US$82m in respect of fair value and actuarial gains recognised directly as other comprehensive income.
The composition of, and movements in, other reserves are set out below and the movements in the year ended 31 March 2012 include currency translation losses of US$48m 2011: gains of US$124m recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
There are no significant statutory, contractual or exchange control restrictions on distributions by Group undertakings.
Merger Hedging Translation Own Total reserve reserve reserve shares other Year ended 31 March 2012 reserve reserves US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2011 15,682 11 60 434 16,045 Purchase of own shares by employee trusts - for employee share incentive plans - - - 224 224 Exercise of share options and awards - - - 166 166 Currency translation gains recognised directly in other comprehensive income - - 48 - 48 At 31 March 2012 15,682 11 12 492 16,151 Merger Hedging Translation Own Total reserve reserve reserve shares other Year ended 31 March 2011 reserve reserves US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2010 15,682 11 64 125 15,860 Purchase of own shares held as treasury shares - - - 334 334 Purchase of own shares by employee trusts - for employee share incentive plans - - - 61 61 Exercise of share options and awards - - - 86 86 Currency translation gains recognised directly in other comprehensive income - - 124 - 124 At 31 March 2011 15,682 11 60 434 16,045 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 143 38.
Retained earnings and other reserves continued The merger reserve arose on the demerger in October 2006 and represents the difference between the share capital and share premium of GUS plc and the nominal value of the share capital of the Company before the share offer in October 2006 and subsequent share issues.
Movements on the hedging reserve and the position at the balance sheet date reflect hedging transactions which are not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related tax.
Movements on the translation reserve and the position at the balance sheet date reflect foreign currency translations since 1 April 2004 which are not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related tax.
The balance on the own shares reserve represents the cost of ordinary shares in the Company and further details of movements are given below.
The difference between the amounts shown in the Group and parent company financial statements in respect of the own shares reserve arose due to the translation of the sterling amounts into US dollars at the different exchange rates on the different translation dates.
The difference is US$32m at both balance sheet dates, with the larger number being reported in the Group financial statements.
Number of own shares held Cost of own shares held Year ended 31 March 2012 Treasury Trusts Total Treasury Trusts Total million million million US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2011 30 8 38 334 100 434 Purchase of own shares - 18 18 - 224 224 Exercise of share options and awards - 16 16 - 166 166 Transfers 6 6 - 60 60 - At 31 March 2012 24 16 40 274 218 492 Number of own shares held Cost of own shares held Year ended 31 March 2011 Treasury Trusts Total Treasury Trusts Total million million million US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2010 - 11 11 - 125 125 Purchase of own shares 30 6 36 334 61 395 Exercise of share options and awards - 9 9 - 86 86 At 31 March 2011 30 8 38 334 100 434 39.
Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests of US$159m 2011: US$161m represents the share of net assets of subsidiary undertakings held outside the Group and principally relates to the 30% stake in Serasa.
Movements in the current and prior year are summarised in the Group statement of changes in total equity and include currency translation losses of US$16m 2011: gains of US$18m recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Obligations for put options in respect of Serasa and other non-controlling interests are reported within other financial liabilities note 31 a.
The put and call options associated with the shares held by non-controlling shareholders in Serasa are exercisable for a period of five years from June 2012 and further details in respect of the valuation of the put option are given in note 8.
144 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 40.
Notes to the Group cash flow statement 2012 2011 Re-presented Note 3 a Cash generated from operations US$m US$m Profit after tax 724 538 Adjustments for: Group tax credit charge 35 118 Share of post-tax losses of associates 2 2 Net finance costs 361 213 Operating profit 1,052 871 Loss on disposals of fixed assets 4 5 Gain loss on disposal of businesses 8 21 Depreciation and amortisation 434 385 Charge in respect of equity incentive plans 65 64 Decrease in working capital note 40 b 20 4 Acquisition expenses - difference between Group income statement charge and amount paid 20 3 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration 3 - Movement in exceptional items included in working capital 5 42 Cash generated from operations 1,539 1,311 2012 2011 Re-presented Note 3 b Decrease in working capital US$m US$m Inventories 3 10 Trade and other receivables 38 33 Trade and other payables 57 47 Difference between pension current service cost and contributions paid 2 - Decrease in working capital 20 4 2012 2011 c Reconciliation of cash outflow in respect of exceptional items US$m US$m Total exceptional items note 13 a 12 2 Interest received on legacy tax balances 4 - Working capital movements 5 42 Asset write-offs - 3 Gain loss on disposal of businesses 8 21 Cash outflow in respect of exceptional items 5 20 2012 2011 Re-presented Note 3 d Cash outflow in respect of tax US$m US$m Tax paid on income of continuing operations 107 85 Tax paid on income of discontinued operations 9 3 Tax paid on disposal of discontinued operations note 17 b - 61 Cash outflow in respect of tax 116 149 2012 2011 e Purchase of other intangible assets US$m US$m Databases 218 175 Internal use software 55 48 Internally generated software 96 77 Purchase of other intangible assets 369 300 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 145 40.
Notes to the Group cash flow statement continued 2012 2011 f Cash flows on acquisition of subsidiaries non-GAAP measure US$m US$m Purchase of subsidiaries note 41 785 277 Net cash acquired with subsidiaries note 41 53 6 Acquisition expenses - transaction expenses paid on behalf of vendors 18 - Acquisition expenses - other amounts paid 11 5 Payments to acquire non-controlling interests 12 - Deferred consideration settled on acquisitions 14 25 Net cash outflow for acquisition of subsidiaries 787 301 2012 2011 g Cash outflow in respect of net share purchases US$m US$m Issue of ordinary shares 11 7 Receipt of share option proceeds 54 50 Purchase of own shares held as treasury shares - 336 Purchase of own shares by employee trusts - for employee share incentive plans 232 70 Cash outflow in respect of net share purchases 167 349 2012 2011 Re-presented Note 3 h Reconciliation of Cash generated from operations to Operating cash flow non-GAAP measure US$m US$m Cash generated from operations note 40 a 1,539 1,311 Acquisition expenses paid 29 5 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 84 69 Purchase of other intangible assets note 40 e 369 300 Sale of property, plant and equipment 3 7 Dividends received from continuing associates 1 1 Cash outflow in respect of exceptional items note 40 c 5 20 Operating cash flow 1,124 975 There were cash flows of US$84m 2011: US$69m for the purchase of property, plant and equipment after receipts of US$11m 2011: US$nil in the form of landlord incentives.
Acquisitions The Group made ten acquisitions during the year, in connection with which provisional goodwill of US$553m has been recognised based on the fair value of the net assets acquired of US$282m.
The cash outflow of US$746m in respect of these acquisitions is stated net of cash acquired of US$53m and includes deferred consideration settled in the year of US$14m.
These transactions included: the acquisition of substantially the whole of the issued share capital of Computec S. A. Computec, a leading Latin American credit services information provider, based in Colombia.
The purchase involved a delisting tender offer and cash consideration for the equivalent of US$380m which was settled in October and November 2011.
This acquisition extends Experians global leadership in credit information.
the acquisition of the whole of the issued share capital of Medical Present Value, Inc Medical Present Value on 1 July 2011 for a consideration of US$192m.
This acquisition broadens Experians presence in the healthcare payments sector in North America.
eight other acquisitions, none of which is individually material.
146 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 41.
Acquisitions continued Details of the net assets acquired at provisional fair values and the consideration and goodwill arising are given below.
Computec Medical Other Total Present acquisitions Value US$m US$m US$m US$m Intangible assets: Customer and advertiser relationships 118 63 55 236 Other 25 12 44 81 Intangible assets 143 75 99 317 Property, plant and equipment 14 1 1 16 Investments in associates 10 - 1 11 Deferred tax assets 224 - 26 Trade and other receivables 17 2 18 37 Cash and cash equivalents 22 9 22 53 Trade and other payables 40 4 27 71 Current tax liability 2 - 3 5 Provisions -- 3 3 Deferred tax liabilities 46 30 23 99 Total identifiable net assets 120 77 85 282 Goodwill 262 115 176 553 Total 382 192 261 835 Satisfied by: Cash 380 192 213 785 Deferred consideration - - 19 19 Fair value of existing stake in associate - - 22 22 Recognition of non-controlling interest 2- 7 9 Total 382 192 261 835 The provisional fair values above contain certain amounts which will be finalised no later than one year after the date of acquisition.
Provisional amounts have been included at 31 March 2012 as a consequence of the timing and complexity of the acquisitions.
Goodwill represents the synergies, assembled workforce and future growth potential of the businesses acquired.
None of the goodwill arising in the year of US$553m is currently deductible for tax purposes.
As indicated in note 5, acquisition expenses have been charged to the Group income statement.
Additional information in respect of these acquisitions is given below.
Computec Medical Other Total Present acquisitions Value US$m US$m US$m US$m Increase in book value from fair value adjustments: Intangible assets 140 74 96 310 Other assets and liabilities 30 30 23 83 Increase in book value from fair value adjustments 110 44 73 227 1 Gross contractual amounts receivable in respect of trade and other receivables 17 2 18 37 Revenue from 1 April 2011 to dates of acquisition 54 11 30 95 Revenue from dates of acquisition to 31 March 2012 53 27 30 110 2 Profit before tax from dates of acquisition to 31 March 2012 4- 5 1 1.
At the dates of acquisition, the gross contractual amounts receivable in respect of trade and other receivables were expected to be collected in full.
It has been impracticable to estimate the impact on Group profit after tax had the acquired entities been owned from 1 April 2011, as their accounting policies and period end dates did not accord with those of the Group prior to their acquisition.
There have been no material gains, losses, error corrections or other adjustments recognised in the year ended 31 March 2012 that relate to acquisitions in the current or previous years.
The cash outflow of US$296m in 2011 was principally attributable to the acquisition of Mighty Net, Inc, and is stated net of total cash acquired in that year of US$6m, and included deferred consideration settled in that year of US$25m.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 147 42.
Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale Experian has agreed to divest the Groups comparison shopping and lead generation businesses and it is anticipated that this transaction will be completed in the first half of the financial year ending 31 March 2013.
The assets and liabilities of these businesses at 31 March 2012 shown below are classified as held for sale.
Any gain on disposal will be recognised in the year ending 31 March 2013.
US$m Assets classified as held for sale: Goodwill 33 Other intangible assets 35 Property, plant and equipment 8 Trade receivables - net 22 Other prepayments and accrued income 15 Current tax asset 5 Assets classified as held for sale 118 Liabilities classified as held for sale: Deferred tax liability 38 Trade payables 15 Accruals and deferred income 24 Other payables 3 Liabilities classified as held for sale 80 43.
Operating lease commitments - minimum lease payments 2012 2011 US$m US$m Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable: In less than one year 63 52 Between one and five years 138 134 In more than five years 67 78 268 264 The Group leases offices and technology under non-cancellable operating lease agreements with varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights and the net charge for the year was US$69m 2011: US$59m.
Capital commitments 2012 2011 US$m US$m Capital expenditure for which contracts have been placed: Property, plant and equipment 34 23 Intangible assets 128 30 162 53 Capital commitments include commitments of US$104m 2011: US$nil not expected to be incurred before 31 March 2013.
Contingencies There are a number of pending and threatened litigation claims involving the Group in North America and Latin America which are being vigorously defended.
The directors do not believe that the outcome of any such pending or threatened litigation will have a materially adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
However, as is inherent in legal proceedings, there is a risk of outcomes unfavourable to the Group.
In the case of unfavourable outcomes the Group would benefit from applicable insurance recoveries.
Serasa, the Groups principal subsidiary undertaking in Brazil, has been advised that the Brazilian tax authorities are challenging the deduction for tax purposes of goodwill amortisation arising from the acquisition of Serasa.
Experian believes that the possibility of this resulting in a liability to the Group is remote on the basis of advice of external legal counsel and other factors in respect of the claim.
148 Experian Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 46.
Related parties Significant subsidiary undertakings at 31 March 2012 are shown in note T to the parent company financial statements.
Disclosures in respect of FARES, the Groups only individually material associate during the year ended 31 March 2011, are given in note 17.
There were no individually material associates during the year ended 31 March 2012.
Analysis of the remuneration of key management personnel: 2012 2011 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 12 12 Retirement benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 18 14 31 27 Key management personnel comprises the board of directors and their remuneration is charged to labour costs.
The amount included in respect of share-based payments includes costs in respect of demerger-related equity incentive plans.
Further details of directors remuneration are given in the audited part of the report on directors remuneration.
Other than remuneration, there were no material transactions or balances between the Group and its key management personnel or members of their close families in either the current or previous year.
Events occurring after the end of the reporting period Details of the second interim dividend announced since the end of the reporting period are given in note 19.
On 16 April 2012, Experian announced an agreement to form a joint venture with Cerved Group SpA to provide enhanced consumer credit information services to the Italian market.
The formation of the joint venture is subject to regulatory approval on receipt of which the joint venture will be established with initial gross assets of some US$10m.
Experian will own a majority stake in the company.
