Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Statement of Directors Responsibilities In Relation to the Group Financial Statements In Relation to the Group and Parent Company The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and Companys Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to financial statements in accordance with International Financial ensure that the Group and Company financial statements comply Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the with the Companies Act 2006 and, with respect to the Group financial Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud those financial statements, the Directors are required to: and other irregularities.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable: Under applicable UK law and requirements of the Financial Services state whether applicable International Financial Reporting Standards Authority, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of a have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate and explained in the financial statements: and Governance Report that comply with these laws and requirements.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis In addition the Directors are responsible for the maintenance and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the in business.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation In Relation to the Parent Company Financial Statements in other jurisdictions.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Under the requirements of Chapter 4 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules the Directors are responsible for including a fair Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for review of the development and performance of the business and the each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare position of the Group taken as a whole, together with a description the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not Responsibility Statement of the Directors in Respect of the approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give Annual Report and Accounts a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the We confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of our knowledge: profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, a the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, the Directors are required to: liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable: b the management report entitled Business Review includes a fair state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been review of the development and performance of the business, and followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis For and on behalf of the Board unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Michael Abrahams Chairman Christopher Mawe Chief Financial Officer 71
