Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1: Corporate information Organisation and operation Ferrexpo plc the Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom with registered office at 24 King Street, London, SW1Y 6QL, UK.
Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries the Group operate a mine and processing plant near Kremenchuk in Ukraine, an interest in a port in Odessa and sales and marketing activities in Switzerland, Dubai and Kiev.
The Group also owns a logistics group located in Austria which operates a fleet of vessels operating on the Rhine and Danube waterways.
The Groups operations are vertically integrated from iron ore mining through to iron ore concentrate and pellet production and subsequent logistics.
The Groups mineral properties lie within the Kremenchuk Magnetic Anomaly and are currently being exploited at the Gorishne-Plavninsky and Lavrikovsky GPL and Yeristovo deposits.
The majority shareholder of the Group is Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. Fevamotinico, a company ultimately owned by The Minco Trust, of which Kostyantin Zhevago, the Groups Chief Executive Officer, is a beneficiary.
At the time this report was published, Fevamotinico held 51.0% 31December 2011: 51.0% of Ferrexpo plcs issued share capital.
The Groups operations are largely conducted through Ferrexpo plcs principal subsidiary, OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining and logistics for Western Europe are managed through the Helogistics subsidiaries.
The Group comprises of Ferrexpo plc and its consolidated subsidiaries as set out below: 31.12.12 31.12.11 Name Country of incorporation Principal activity % % 1 OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining Ukraine Iron ore mining 97.3 97.3 2 Ferrexpo AG Switzerland Sale of iron ore pellets 100.0 100.0 2 DP Ferrotrans Ukraine Trade, transportation services 97.3 97.3 3 United Energy Company LLC Ukraine Holding company 97.3 97.3 1 Ferrexpo Finance plc England Finance 100.0 100.0 1 Ferrexpo Services Limited Ukraine Management services & procurement 100.0 100.0 1 Ferrexpo Hong Kong Limited China Marketing services 100.0 100.0 4 LLC Ferrexpo Yeristovo GOK Ukraine Iron ore mining 100.0 100.0 4 LLC Ferrexpo Belanovo GOK Ukraine Iron ore mining 100.0 100.0 3 Nova Logistics Limited Ukraine Service company dormant 51.0 51.0 6 Ferrexpo Middle East FZE U.
A. E. Sale of iron ore pellets 100.0 100.0 6 Ferrexpo Singapore PTE Limited Singapore Marketing services 100.0 100.0 5 First-DDSG Logistics Holding GmbH Austria Holding company 100.0 100.0 5 EDDSG GmbH Austria Barging company 100.0 100.0 5 DDSG Tankschiffahrt GmbH Austria Barging company 100.0 100.0 5 Helogistics Transport GmbH Austria Barging company 100.0 100.0 5 DDSG Mahart Kft.
formerly Mahart Duna Cargo Kft.
Hungary Barging company 100.0 100.0 5 Pancar Kft.
Hungary Barging company 100.0 100.0 7 Ferrexpo Port Services GmbH Austria Port services 100.0 100.0 7 Helogistics Asset Leasing Kft.
Hungary Asset holding company 100.0 100.0 8 Ferrexpo Shipping International Limited Marshall Islands Holding company 100.0 100.0 8 Iron Destiny Limited Marshall Islands Shipping company 100.0 100.0 9 Transcanal SRL Romania Port services 77.6 77.6 10 Universal Service Group Ltd Ukraine Asset holding company 100.0 1 The Groups interest in these entities is held through Ferrexpo AG.
2 Ferrexpo AG was the holding company of the Group until, as a result of the pre-IPO restructuring: Ferrexpo plc became the holding company on 24 May 2007.
3 The Groups interest in these entities is held through OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining.
4 The Groups interest in this entity is held through both Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo Service Limited.
5 The Groups interest in these entities are held through Ferrexpo AG.
First-DDSG Logistics Holding GmbH formerly Helogistics Holding GmbH and its subsidiaries were acquired in December 2010.
6 Both subsidiaries were incorporated in March 2011.
The Groups interest in Ferrexpo Middle East FZE is held by Ferrexpo AG whereas Ferrexpo Singapore PTE Limited is a subsidiary of Ferrexpo Middle East FZE.
7 The subsidiaries were incorporated in April 2011 and December 2011.
The Groups interest is held through Helogistics Holding GmbH.
8 The subsidiaries were incorporated on 14 July 2011.
9 The company was acquired on 1 October 2011 and the Groups interest is held through Helogistics Holding GmbH.
10 The company was incorporated in December 2012 and the Groups interest is held through Ferrexpo Services Limited.
The Group also holds an interest of 48.6% 2011: 48.6% in TIS Ruda, a Ukrainian port located on the Black Sea.
As this is an associate, it is accounted for using the equity method of accounting and further disclosed in note 14.
78 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
However, the consolidated financial statements would be no different had the Group applied IFRS as issued by the IASB, as it applies to accounting periods ended 31 December 2012.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for post-employment benefits and available-for-sale financial instruments, the latter measured at fair value in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, the former measured in accordance with IAS 19 Employee benefits.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in thousands of US Dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand except where otherwise indicated.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011, except for those changes detailed in note 3.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements for Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared as at the same reporting date as Ferrexpo plcs, using consistent accounting policies.
Subsidiaries acquired are fully consolidated from the date of effective control, when the Group obtains effective control.
Similarly, subsidiaries disposed of are deconsolidated from the date on which the Group ceases to hold effective control.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary without a loss of control is accounted for as an equity transaction.
All intercompany balances and transactions including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
Business combination and goodwill On the acquisition of a subsidiary, the business combination is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregated amount of the consideration transferred, measured at the date of acquisition.
The consideration paid is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the basis of fair values at the date of acquisition.
Acquisition costs are expensed when incurred and included in general and administrative expenses.
If the cost of acquisition exceeds the identifiable net assets attributable to the Group, the difference is considered as purchased goodwill, which is not amortised but annually reviewed for impairment or in case of an indication of impairment.
In the case that the identifiable net assets attributable to the Group exceed the cost of acquisition, the difference is recognised in profit and loss as a gain on bargain purchase.
For each business combination, the Group measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
If the initial accounting for a business combination cannot be completed by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, only provisional amounts are reported, which can be adjusted during the measurement period of 12 months after acquisition date.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Details of the impairment testing are disclosed in note 19.
Investments in associates The Groups investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
Under the equity method, the investment in the associate is carried in the statement of financial position at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate.
Goodwill relating to an associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised nor individually tested for impairment.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise any additional impairment loss with respect to the Groups investment in the associate.
The share of profit of an associate is shown on the face of the income statement.
This is the profit attributable to the Group and therefore is profit after tax and non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associate.
The reporting dates of the associates and Ferrexpo plc are identical and the associates accounting policies are generally in conformity with those applied by the Group.
Functional and presentational currencies Based on the economic substance of the underlying business transactions and circumstances relevant to the parent, the functional currency of the parent has been determined to be the US Dollar, with each subsidiary determining its own functional currency based on its own circumstances.
The Group has chosen the US Dollar as its presentational currency and OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining the principal subsidiary has determined that its functional currency is the Ukrainian Hryvnia.
79 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Foreign currency translation For individual subsidiary Company accounts, transactions in foreign currencies i. e. other than the functional currency are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date and non-monetary assets and liabilities at the historic rate.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
For presentation of Group consolidated accounts, if the functional currency of a subsidiary is different to the presentational currency as at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of this entity are translated into the presentational currency at the rate ruling at the reporting date and the income statement is translated using the average exchange rate for the period.
The foreign exchange differences arising are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to the particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of goods including pellet sales Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, customs duties and sales taxes.
Risks and rewards of the ownership of goods passes when title for the goods passes to the customer as determined by the terms of the sales agreement.
The sales are typically made under the following terms: CIF Cost Insurance and Freight : CFR Cost and Freight : DAP Delivery At Place : or FOB Free on Board.
Under the CFR and FOB terms the title passes on the bill of lading date whereas under the other terms revenue is recognised when goods arrive at agreed destination or at border crossing.
If the sales agreement allows for adjustment of the sales prices based on survey of the goods by the customer e. g. ore content the revenue is recognised based on the most recent determined product specification.
Other sales Other sales include the processing and sale of ore and ore concentrate, the sale of spare parts, materials and crushed rocks and the repair and rental of railway wagons.
Logistic services Revenue from logistic services rendered is recognised as the services are completed.
Where services are invoiced in advance of discharge, amounts attributable to the time between the end of the reporting period and the discharge date are deferred.
Rendering of services Revenue from the rendering of services is recognised when services are complete.
Sales of services primarily include repairs, canteen revenue and recharges to local customers for electricity consumption and railway usage.
Rental income Rental income arising from operating leases is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
Foreign exchange gains and losses Foreign exchange gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Operating foreign exchange gains and losses are those resulting directly from the Groups operating activities.
Non-operating gains and losses are predominately those associated with the sale of assets including monetary assets, the translation of interest bearing loans and borrowings denominated in currencies different to the respective functional currencies and transactional gains and losses from the conversion of cash balances in currencies different to the local functional currencies at exchange rates different to those at the initial recognition date.
Finance income and expense Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues in the income statement using the effective interest method.
80 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Finance expenses comprise the interest expense on borrowings and other financial liabilities.
Finance expenses also comprise the effect of the estimated discount of overdue VAT balances expected to be received after more than 12 months following the period end.
Taxes Current income tax Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount estimated to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the reporting date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, if it is probable that they become taxable, except: where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Income tax on items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Value added tax Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of value added tax VAT, except: where VAT incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case VAT is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of expense item as applicable: and receivables and payables are stated with the amount of VAT included.
The net amount of VAT recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is disclosed in note 26 to the financial statements.
VAT receivable balances are not discounted unless the overdue balances are expected to be received after more than 12 months following the period end.
Where intentions have been communicated officially that VAT repayments, which are due, are to be converted into bonds or other financial instruments, these are valued at the estimated market value of such instruments with any adjustment charged to the income statement.
Equity Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of Ordinary Shares and share options are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
81 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Employee benefit trust reserve Ferrexpo plc shares held by the Group are classified in capital and reserves as the employee benefit trust reserve and recognised at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Treasury shares Own equity instruments which are reacquired treasury shares are recognised at cost and deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
Any difference between the carrying amount and the consideration is recognised in other capital reserves.
Financial assets Derivative financial instruments The Group does not hold any derivative financial instruments.
Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities promissory notes, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value being the fair value of the consideration given or received plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date i. e. the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Regular way purchases or sales are those that require delivery of assets within the period generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
The Group has not designated any financial assets as at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired along with the amortisation process.
Available-for-sale financial assets All investment, except for investments in associates, are accounted for as available-for-sale.
Available-for-sale financial assets are those nonderivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified as loans or receivables, held-to-maturity investments or financial assets at FVTPL.
After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial investments are subsequently measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the investment is derecognised.
At this time, the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in other operating income, or determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative loss is recognised in the income statement in finance costs and removed from the available-for-sale reserve.
The fair value of investments that are actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices at the close of business on the reporting date.
For investments where there is no active market, the fair value is determined using discounted cash flow analysis.
Other Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
Financial liabilities Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised and initially measured at cost.
Subsequently, instruments with a fixed maturity are remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any transaction costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
82 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced either directly or through use of an allowance account.
The amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Available-for-sale financial assets For available-for-sale financial investments, the Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is impaired.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost.
Where there is evidence of impairment, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that investment previously recognised in the income statement is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses on equity investments are not reversed through the income statement: increases in their fair value after impairment are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, i. e. whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset, even it that right is not specified in an arrangement.
Group as a lessee Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the income statement.
Leased assets are depreciated over the useful life of the asset.
However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Group as a lessor Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same bases as rental income.
Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.
83 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
In the case of general borrowings used to fund the acquisition or construction costs of qualifying assets, the borrowing costs to be capitalised are calculated based on a weighted average interest rate applicable to the relevant general borrowings of the Group during a specific period.
The Group capitalises borrowing costs for all qualifying assets where construction was commenced on or after 1 January 2009.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and or accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the property, plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria are met.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
Major spare parts and stand-by equipment qualify as property, plant and equipment when they are expected to be used during more than one period.
Expenditure incurred after the assets have been put into operation, such as repairs and maintenance and overhaul costs, are normally charged to the income statement in the period the costs are incurred.
In situations where it can be clearly demonstrated that the expenditure results in future economic benefits, the expenditure is capitalised as an additional cost.
Upon recognition, items of property, plant and equipment are divided into components, which represent items with a significant value that have different useful lives.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its estimated useful life which is calculated with due regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Changes in estimates, which affect unit of production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Except for mining assets which are depreciated using the unit of production method, depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, as follows: Buildings: 2050 years Vessels: 3040 years Plant and equipment: 315 years Vehicles: 715 years Fixtures and fittings: 2.510 years An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the year the item is derecognised.
Assets in the course of construction are initially recognised in a separate category of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
Assets under construction are not depreciated.
On acquisition, the cost of property, plant and equipment is capitalised on the statement of financial position.
Depreciation commences when the item is available for use.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Stripping costs included in mining assets and assets under construction Stripping costs in relation to mine exploration, evaluation and development costs incurred up to the commencement of the production are included in assets under construction.
Stripping work comprises overburden removed at the pre-production, mine extension and production stages.
After the commencement of production, the respective pre-production stripping costs are transferred to mining assets and depreciated using the unit of production method based on the estimated economically recoverable reserves to which they relate.
The production stripping costs are generally charged to the income statement as variable production costs.
The production stripping costs are only capitalised if the stripping activities are related to a betterment of the mining property and the duration of the future benefits is ascertained without a high degree of judgement.
If capitalised, the production stripping costs are included in mining assets and depreciated using the same methodology as for the capitalised pre-production stripping costs see above.
The cost of removal of the waste material during a mines production phase is expensed as incurred.
84 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Exploration and evaluation assets Costs incurred in relation to the exploration and evaluation of potential iron ore deposits are capitalised and classified as tangible or intangible asset depending on the nature of the expenditures.
Costs associated with exploratory drilling, researching and analysing of exploration data and costs of pre-feasibility studies are included in tangible assets whereas those associated with the acquisition of licences are included in intangible assets.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditures are carried forward as an asset as long as these costs are expected to be recouped in full through successful development and exploration in a future period.
Exploration and evaluation assets included in intangible and tangible assets are measured at cost and neither amortised nor depreciated, but monitored for indications of impairment.
To the extent that the capitalised expenditures are not expected to be recouped the excess is fully provided for in the financial year in which this is determined.
Upon reaching the development stage, exploration and evaluation assets are transferred to asset under construction.
Intangible assets Goodwill The policies applied for the initial recognition and subsequent measurement of goodwill are described under Goodwill and other intangible assets and Business combination on page 97 and page 125 respectively.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of other intangible assets acquired in a business combination is its fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of other intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
Amortisation Other intangible assets, other than goodwill, primarily comprise capitalised software costs, which are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, ranging between one and three years.
Capitalised mineral licences are amortised on a unit of production basis.
Impairment of assets excluding financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a market-determined pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement.
Refer to note 19 for details on the impairment testing of goodwill.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition is accounted for as follows: Raw materials at cost on a first-in, first-out basis.
Finished goods and work in progress at cost of direct materials and labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity, but excluding borrowing costs.
The net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
85 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and on hand as well as short-term deposits with original maturity of 90 days or less.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Site restoration costs Site restoration provisions are made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure and restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs determined by an independent expert in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted, if material, and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future benefit and depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or the life of operations.
Pension obligations and other employee benefits Costs relating to these plans are accrued in the consolidated financial statements using the projected unit credit method in respect of those employees entitled to such payments.
Management defines the underlying assumptions required by actuaries to calculate the liability of the retirement obligation at each reporting date.
Gains and losses resulting from the development of the defined benefit obligations and market values of plan assets are recognised when the cumulative unrecognised actuarial gains or losses for the scheme exceed 10% of the defined benefit obligation for unfunded plans and the higher of planned assets obligation for funded schemes.
These gains or losses are recognised as income or expense over the expected average remaining working lives of the employees participating in the plan.
The past service cost is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
If the benefits are already vested immediately following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, the past service cost is recognised immediately.
The defined benefit pension liability is the aggregate of the net funded status present value of the defined benefit obligation less plan assets and actuarial gains and losses and past service costs not yet recognised.
Numerous amendments made to IAS 19 Employee benefits will become effective as of 1 January 2013.
The most fundamental change of the numerous amendments made to IAS 19 is the removal of the so-called corridor-approach requiring to recognise all actuarial gains and losses from the remeasurement of the defined benefit obligation and the market values of the plan assets in other comprehensive income in the current period.
See note 3 for further details in relation to the amendments of the standard.
Details to the pension schemes within the Group are provided in note 31.
Earnings per share The basic number of Ordinary Shares is calculated based on the weighted average number of shares in issue, excluding shares held in treasury.
For the current and prior year periods, basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of Ferrexpo plc by the number of Ordinary Shares as defined above.
The number of Ordinary Shares in issue excludes the shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust and the treasury shares held by the Group.
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by adjusting the number of Ordinary Shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares.
All share awards are potentially dilutive and are considered in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
Share-based payments Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the grant date and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined by reference to the quoted closing share price on the grant date.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, except for market conditions.
86 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is dependent upon a market condition.
In these cases, the awards are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each reporting date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated: representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous reporting date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Long-Term Incentive Plans LTIPs The LTIPs are share-based schemes whereby certain senior management and executives receive rewards based on the relative Total Shareholder Return TSR outperformance of the Group compared with a group of companies, which operate within a similar environment.
The cost of equity-settled awards is measured as described above together with an estimate of future social security contributions payable in respect of this value.
Where the granting of an LTIP is subject to the satisfaction of certain market conditions, a vesting charge is recognised irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where awards terminate before the performance period is complete, any unamortised expense is recognised immediately.
Note 3: New accounting policies The accounting policies and methods of computation adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are consistent with those of the previous year, except for the adoption of new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations effective as of 1 January 2012.
None of the new and amended standards or interpretations affected the reported results and financial positions.
The adoption of the standards or interpretations is described below: IFRS 1 First-time adoption of IFRS severe hyperinflation and removal of fixed dates for first time adopters The amendments were issued in December 2010 and became effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
The amendments to IFRS 1 provide guidance for entities emerging from severe hyperinflation and replace the date of prospective application of the derecognition of financial assets and liabilities of 1 January 2004 with the date of transition to IFRS.
Both amendments did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures transfer of financial assets The amendment to IFRS became effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
The amendment requires the disclosure of information that enables the users of the financial statements to understand the relationship between transferred financial assets that are not derecognised in their entirety and the associated liabilities as well as, in the case of fully derecognised financial assets in which the entity retains continuing involvement, information to evaluate the nature of, and associated risks with continuing involvement in the derecognised financial assets.
The application of this amendment did not have impact on the financial statements of the Group.
IAS 12 Income taxes recovery of underlying assets The amendment to the standard was issued in December 2010 and became effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2012.
The amendment provides an exception to the general principle of measuring deferred taxes for investment properties measured at fair value and introduces a rebuttable presumption that the carrying amount of such assets will be recovered entirely through sale.
The adoption of this amended standard did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted The Group has elected not to early adopt the following revised and amended standards: IFRS 1 First-time adoption of IFRS government loans The amendment requires first-time adopters to apply the requirements of IAS 20 Accounting for government grants and disclosure of government assistance prospectively to government loans existing at the date of transition to IFRS.
This amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and will have no impact on the Groups financial position and performance.
IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The amendment requires disclosure of information about rights of offset and related arrangements e. g. collateral posting requirements for financial instruments under an enforceable master netting agreement or similar agreement.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 with retrospective disclosure for all comparative periods and will have no impact on the Groups financial position and performance.
87 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 3: New accounting policies continued IFRS 9 Financial instruments: classification and measurement The IASB has issued the first phase of IFRS 9 that will replace IAS 39.
The new standard applies to classification and measurement of financial assets as defined in IAS 39.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 might have an effect on the classification and measurement of the Groups financial assets.
The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture.
In subsequent phases, hedge accounting and impairment of financial assets will be addressed by the IASB.
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements The new standard provides additional guidance to assist in the determination of which entities are controlled and are required to be consolidated.
This standard replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements that addresses the accounting for consolidated financial statements.
The IASB implementation date is for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 whereas the standard becomes mandatory in the EU only for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The Group does not intend to take advantage of the possibility of an early adoption.
The impact on the accounting for the Groups associated company TIS Ruda will be assessed.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements The new standard replaces IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures and SIC 13 Jointly-controlled entities non-monetary contributions by venturers.
The standard defines contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement and the accounting for joint operations and joint ventures.
The Group does not intend to take advantage of the possibility of an early adoption and will review its arrangements in place in order to evaluate the potential impact.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of involvement with other entities The new standard covers the disclosures that were previously required in consolidated financial statements under IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements as well as those included in IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures and IAS 28 Investments in associates.
The Group does not intend to take advantage of the possibility of an early adoption, but expects that a number of additional disclosures will be required under the new standard.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement The new standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS and when fair value is required or permitted.
The Group does not intend to take advantage of the possibility of an early adoption and is currently assessing the impact of the new standard on its financial position and performance.
IAS 1 Financial statement presentation presentation of items of other comprehensive income The amended standard was issued in June 2011 and becomes effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
The amendment requires to group items in other comprehensive income based on whether they will be potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss at a future point of time or whether they will never be reclassified.
The amendment affects presentation only and will have no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
IAS 19 Employee benefits The most fundamental change of the numerous amendments made to IAS 19 is the removal of the so-called corridor-approach requiring to recognise all actuarial gains and losses from the remeasurement of the defined benefit obligation and the fair values of the plan assets in other comprehensive income in the current period.
This amendment will affect the Groups financial position and performance as well as the presentation of the defined benefit obligation.
The Group does not intend to take advantage of the possibility of an early adoption of the numerous amendments made to IAS 19 that becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The removal of the corridorapproach under the amendments to IAS 19 will result in the recognition of unrecognised actuarial losses and past service costs through other comprehensive income.
If the Group would have applied the amended standard for the financial year 2012, the shareholders equity would have been lower by US$51,815 thousand and US$26,885 thousand as of 1 January 2012 and as at 31 December 2012 respectively.
As a result, the current year benefit expenses for the financial year 2012 would have been lower by US$3,764 thousand.
The amendment of the IAS 19 standard will be retrospectively applied in the financial year 2013.
Details of the pension schemes of the Group are provided in note 31.
IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The amendments clarify existing application issues relating to the offset of financial assets and financial liabilities requirements.
The amendments are not effective until annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 with retrospective application.
No material effects on the Groups financial position and performance are expected from this amendment.
88 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 3: New accounting policies continued IFRIC 20 Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine The new interpretation covers the accounting for the necessary removal of mine waste materials in order to gain access to the mineral ore deposit during the production phase of a mine.
The interpretation provides guidance on the accounting and separation of the costs of stripping activities resulting in the production of inventory in the current period or improved access to further mineral ore deposits that will be mined in future periods.
The new interpretation applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The Group does not intend to take advantage of the possibility of an early adoption and no material effects on the financial position or performance of the Group are expected.
Improvements to IFRSs issued May 2012 The IASB has issued amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
There are separate transitional provisions for each standard.
The adoption of the following amendment will result in changes to accounting policies, but will not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment The improvement clarifies that major spare parts and servicing equipment that meet the definition of property, plant and equipment are not inventory.
As a result of this improvement, major spare parts and servicing equipment will have to be reclassified from inventory to property, plant and equipment in the first half of the financial year 2013.
The impact of implementing the amendment on the Groups inventory is being assessed.
Other amendments resulting from improvements to the following standards and interpretations will not have an impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group: IFRS 1 First-time adoption of IFRS IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation IAS 34 Interim financial reporting Note 4: Use of estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
These estimates are based on information available as at the date of authorising the consolidated financial statements for issue.
Actual results, therefore, could differ from those estimates.
In particular, information about significant areas of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements made by management in preparing the consolidated financial information are described in the following notes: Property, plant and equipment The determination of fair value and value-in-use requires management to make estimates and assumptions about expected production and sales volumes, commodity prices considering current and historical prices, price trends and related factors, reserves, operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs and future capital expenditure.
These estimates and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty: hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter these projections, which may impact the recoverable amount of the assets.
In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying value of the assets may be impaired and the impairment would be charged against the income statement.
The total of property, plant and equipment amounted to US$1,342,039 thousand as of 31 December 2012 2011: US$924,690 thousand.
See also note 18 for further information.
Pre-production stripping costs Overburden and other mine waste materials have to be removed prior to the production of the mine in order to gain access to the iron ore body.
These activities are referred to as pre-production stripping costs and are capitalised under assets under construction.
The pre-production stripping costs are capitalised based on calculations which require the use of judgement and estimates in terms of estimated tonnage of overburden and waste material to be removed during the life time of the mine and the expected recoverable reserves that can be extracted.
The change of the mine plan life and design in the future may result in changes to the expected stripping ratio waste to mineral reserves ratio and require adjustment of the capitalised pre-production stripping costs.
At 31 December 2012, the carrying amount of capitalised pre-production stripping costs included in assets under constructions amounted to US$36,794 thousand 2011: US$151,393 thousand.
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets As outlined in note 19 the impairment testing of goodwill is based on significant judgements and assumptions made by the management when performing the annual impairment testing of these non-current assets.
Changes to be made to these assumptions may alter the results of the impairment testing, the impairment charges recorded in profit or loss and the resulting carrying values of the non-current assets tested.
The carrying amount of the goodwill amounted to US$98,413 thousand as of 31 December 2012 2011: US$98,453 thousand.
Related disclosures are also made in note 19.
89 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 4: Use of estimates continued Fair value of financial instruments Where the fair value of financial assets and liabilities recorded in the statement of financial position cannot be derived from active markets, they are determined using valuation techniques including the discounted cash flow model.
The inputs to these models are taken from observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in establishing fair values.
The judgements include considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility.
Changes in assumptions about these factors could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments.
Detailed information on the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities are given in note 37.
Taxes recoverable Within the Ukraine, the Group has limited domestic sales and exports the majority of its products so that VAT paid on purchases of goods and capital equipment cannot be fully offset from VAT on domestic sales and the Group relies on refunds to be made by the Ukrainian government tax authority.
Since the financial year 2010, refunds have not been made on time by the Ukrainian government tax authority and the gross recoverable balance increased to US$301,535 thousand as of 31 December 2012 2011: US$171,654 thousand.
Despite the fact that the vast majority of this balance is due for immediate repayment, there is a risk that a large portion will be recovered only after more than 12 months from the period end.
An estimated discount of US$20,000 thousand has been recorded as of 31 December 2012 2011: nil to reflect the time value of money based on managements best estimate of the anticipated timing of refunds.
The exact timing is subject to uncertainties and outside of managements control.
A change of estimate of timing may affect the balance of the recorded discount in future periods.
Additional disclosures are made in note26.
Defined benefit pension liability The valuation for defined benefit superannuation schemes requires management to make judgements as to the nature of benefits provided by each scheme and thereby determine the classification of each scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, management is required to make annual estimates and assumptions about future returns on classes of scheme assets, future remuneration changes, employee attrition rates, administration costs, changes in benefits, inflation rates, exchange rates, life expectancy and expected remaining periods of service of employees.
In making these estimates and assumptions, management considers advice provided by external advisers, such as actuaries.
At 31 December 2012, the carrying amount of defined benefit pension liability was US$23,504 thousand 2011: US$13,329 thousand.
Detailed disclosure is made in note 31.
Provision for site restoration The Groups accounting policy for the recognition of site restoration provisions requires significant estimates and assumptions such as requirements of the relevant legal and regulatory framework: the magnitude of possible contamination and the timing, extent and estimated future costs of required closure and rehabilitation activity.
These uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
At 31 December 2012, the carrying amount of the provision for site restoration amounted to US$2,368 thousand 2011: US$3,015 thousand.
See also note 32 for further information.
Deferred income tax The Groups accounting policy for taxation requires managements judgement in assessing whether deferred tax assets and certain deferred tax liabilities are recognised on the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from unrecouped tax losses, capital losses and temporary differences, are recognised only where it is considered more likely than not that they will be recovered, which is dependent on the expected generation of sufficient future taxable profits.
A deviation between expected and effective future taxable profits in the different local jurisdictions may have an adverse impact on the recognised deferred tax balances in the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Assumptions about the generation of expected future taxable profits depend on managements estimates of future cash flows.
These depend on estimates of future production and sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves, operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs, capital expenditure, dividends and other capital management transactions.
Judgements are also required about the application of income tax legislation.
These judgements and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty, hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter expectations, which may impact the amount of recognised deferred tax balances in the consolidated financial statement of the Group and the amounts of other tax losses and temporary differences not yet recognised.
In such circumstances, some, or all, of the carrying amount of recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities may require adjustment, resulting in a corresponding credit or charge to the income statement.
At 31 December 2012, the Groups consolidated financial statements showed deferred tax assets of US$29,130 thousand 2011: US$23,426 thousand and deferred tax liabilities of US$2,581 thousand 2011: US$2,232 thousand.
See also note 22 for further information.
90 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 5: Segment information The Group is managed as a single entity which produces, develops and markets its principal product, iron ore pellets, for sale to the metallurgical industry.
While the revenue generated by the Group is analysed, there are no separate measures of profit reported to the Groups Chief Operating Decision-Maker CODM.
In accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the Group presents its results in a single segment which are disclosed in the income statement for the Group.
The management monitors the operating result of the Group based on a number of measures including EBITDA, C1 costs and the net financial indebtedness.
EBITDA The Group presents EBITDA because it believes that EBITDA is a useful measure for evaluating its ability to generate cash and its operating performance.
The Groups full definition of EBITDA is disclosed in the Glossary on page 136.
Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.12 31.12.11 Profit before tax and finance 340,869 758,528 Write-offs and impairment losses 13 836 478 Losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4,067 46 Share-based payments 38 1,608 891 Depreciation and amortisation 54,169 41,003 EBITDA 401,549 800,946 C1 costs C1 costs represents the cash costs of production of iron pellets from own ore divided by production volume of own ore, and excludes non-cash costs such as depreciation, pension costs and inventory movements, costs of purchased ore, concentrate and production cost of gravel.
Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Cost of sales pellet production 642,654 600,790 Depreciation and amortisation 39,290 28,639 Purchased concentrate and other items for resale 29,254 102,908 Processing costs for purchased concentrate 3,293 7,873 Production cost of gravel 612 572 Inventory movements 9,029 481 Pension service costs 7,560 5,334 Other 10,526 7,099 C1 cost 561,148 459,514 Own ore produced tonnes 9,408,662 9,063,398 C1 cash cost per tonne US$ 59.6 50.7 Net financial indebtedness Net financial indebtedness as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents, term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings and amounts payable for equipment.
Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.12 31.12.11 Cash and cash equivalents 27 596,560 890,154 Current borrowings 29 26,846 18,948 Non-current borrowings 29 993,139 951,430 Net financial indebtedness 423,425 80,224 Disclosure of revenue and non-current assets The Group does not generate significant revenues from external customers attributable to the country of domicile.
The information on the revenues from external customers attributed to the individual foreign countries is given in note 6.
The Group does not have any significant non-current assets that are located in the country of domicile of the Group.
The vast majority of the non-current assets are located in Ukraine.
91 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 6: Revenue Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2012 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Revenue from sales of iron ore pellets and concentrate: Export 1,329,728 1,699,154 Ukraine 331 742 Total revenue from sale of iron ore pellets and concentrate 1,330,059 1,699,896 Revenue from logistics and bunker business 81,845 73,276 Revenue from services provided 3,202 4,092 Revenue from other sales 8,924 10,748 Total revenue 1,424,030 1,788,012 Export sales of iron ore pellets and concentrate by geographical destination were as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 China 529,664 569,924 Austria 339,725 453,586 Slovakia 141,765 121,041 Czech Republic 112,623 119,793 Turkey 73,180 83,722 Germany 40,486 28,898 Japan 33,389 88,875 India 23,068 47,119 Serbia 19,723 158,687 Russia 8,875 Romania 5,167 Hungary 2,063 27,509 Total exports 1,329,728 1,699,154 During the year ended 31 December 2012 sales made to three customers accounted for approximately 44.7% of the revenues from export sales of ore pellets 2011:50.2%.
Sales made to two customers individually amounted to more than 10% of total sales.
These are disclosed below: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Customer A 339,725 453,586 Customer B 141,765 279,728 92 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 7: Cost of sales Cost of sales for the year ended 31 December 2012 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Materials 89,296 75,246 Purchased concentrate and other items for resale 29,254 102,908 Electricity 141,939 121,364 Personnel costs 72,939 51,677 Spare parts and consumables 26,563 20,968 Depreciation and amortisation 39,290 28,639 Gas 79,082 63,485 Fuel 56,038 47,343 Repairs and maintenance 78,022 63,801 Royalties and levies 12,375 10,437 Cost of sales from logistics business 22,342 23,363 Bunker fuel 29,580 25,391 Inventory movements 9,028 481 Other 26,884 15,403 Total cost of sales 694,576 649,544 Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Cost of sales pellet production 642,654 600,790 Cost of sales logistics and bunker business 51,922 48,754 Total cost of sales 694,576 649,544 Note 8: Selling and distribution expenses Selling and distribution expenses for the year ended 31 December 2012 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 International freight for pellets 113,538 119,572 Railway transportation 93,442 89,185 Port charges 31,891 37,724 Other pellet transportation costs 18,611 13,453 Costs of logistics business 27,495 36,671 Gravel delivery costs 516 1,783 Advertising 9,643 6,911 Depreciation 9,805 8,231 Other 7,023 4,421 Total selling and distribution expenses 311,964 317,951 93 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 9: General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses for the year ended 31 December 2012 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Personnel costs 30,569 26,912 Buildings and maintenance 2,597 2,182 Taxes other than income tax and other charges 1,465 1,480 Professional fees 4,699 7,799 Depreciation and amortisation 4,636 3,968 Communication 1,144 1,149 Vehicles maintenance and fuel 2,033 1,553 Repairs 1,542 1,365 Audit fees 1,589 1,445 Non-audit fees 473 510 Security 2,296 1,859 Other 3,286 1,747 Total general and administrative expenses 56,329 51,969 Auditor remuneration Auditor remuneration paid in respect of the audit of the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiary companies and for the provision of other services not in connection with the audit is disclosed below: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Audit services Ferrexpo plc Annual Report 823 741 Subsidiary entities 766 704 Total audit services 1,589 1,445 Non-audit services Tax advisory 23 139 Assurance related services 203 117 Other services 247 254 Total non-audit services 473 510 Total auditor remuneration 2,062 1,955 Note 10: Other income Other income for the year ended 31 December 2012 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Sale of surplus maintenance spares 1,276 2,334 Lease income 3,050 1,597 Other income 7,021 3,012 Total other income 11,347 6,943 94 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 11: Other expenses Other expenses for the year ended 31 December 2012 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Community support donations 20,810 12,393 Movements in allowance for doubtful receivables and prepayments made 721 2,406 Research 680 362 Other personnel costs 2,339 1,962 Other 5,611 4,780 Total other expenses 30,161 17,091 Note 12: Foreign exchange gains and losses Foreign exchange gains and losses for the year ended 31 December 2012 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Operating foreign exchange gains losses Revaluation of trade receivables 7 252 Revaluation of trade payables 23 1,612 Revaluation of cash and cash equivalents 339 Other 284 Total operating foreign exchange gains losses 653 1,360 Non-operating foreign exchange gains losses Revaluation of interest-bearing loans 1,986 102 Revaluation and conversion of cash and cash equivalents 5,046 605 Other 403 2,437 Total non-operating foreign exchange gains losses 6,629 1,934 The non-operating foreign exchange gains in 2012 relates to income received from the conversion of US Dollars for the settlement of liabilities denominated in Ukrainian Hyrvnia at an exchange rate higher than the one applicable upon initial recognition.
Note 13: Write-offs and impairment losses Impairment losses relate to adjustments made against the carrying value of assets where this is higher than the recoverable amount.
Write-offs and impairment losses for the year ended 31 December 2012 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.12 31.12.11 Write-off of inventories 215 105 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 191 175 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 20 430 198 Total write-offs and impairment losses 836 478 95 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 14: Investments in associates As at 31 December 2012 investments in associates comprised: As at As at Country of Ownership 31.12.12 31.12.11 Principal activity incorporation % US$000 US$000 TIS Ruda Port development Ukraine 48.6 16,995 19,186 For the year ended 31 December 2012 the summarised financial information for the associate was as follows: Total assets Total liabilities Revenue Net profit As at As at As at As at Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 31.12.12 31.12.11 31.12.12 31.12.11 31.12.12 31.12.11 TIS Ruda 20,500 25,993 2,498 4,936 22,401 22,205 5,555 4,032 The information above is for 100% of the associate named and not as a percentage based on Groups ownership.
The movement in the investment in the year represents the Groups share of profit of US$2,772 thousand in TIS Ruda 2011: US$2,012 thousand.
TIS Ruda paid a dividend amounting to US$4,963 thousand for the financial year 2012 2011: US$2,207 thousand to the Group.
TIS Ruda operates a port on the Black Sea which the Group uses as part of its distribution channel.
Note 15: Finance income and expense Finance income and expenses for the year ended 31 December 2012 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Finance income Interest income 2,454 2,505 Other finance revenue 144 6 Total finance income 2,598 2,511 Finance expense Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 53,241 46,376 Interest on defined benefit plans 6,821 5,765 Bank charges 6,880 14,885 Other finance costs 21,149 1,179 Total finance expenses 88,091 68,205 Net finance expense 85,493 65,694 Bank charges include arrangement fees charged in relation to the Groups major bank debt facility.
Other finance costs includes the recorded discount of US$20,000 thousand 2011: nil to reflect the time value of money on the outstanding VAT receivable balances in Ukraine that are expected to be recovered after more than one year of the period end.
Further information is provided in note 26.
96 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 16: Income tax expense The income tax expense for the year ended 31 December 2012 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Current income tax Current income tax charge 48,797 125,689 Amounts related to previous years 2,929 150 Total current income tax 51,726 125,839 Deferred income tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 12,763 10,788 Effect from changes in tax laws and rates 7,462 913 Total deferred income tax 5,301 9,875 Total income tax expense 46,425 115,964 Other comprehensive income contained taxes on the following items charged or credited to it for the year ended 31 December 2012: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Exchange differences arising on hedging of foreign operations 32 153 Net losses on available-for-sale investments 62 437 Total income taxes charged to other comprehensive income 94 590 A breakdown of the deferred tax balances is contained in note 22.
The effective income tax rate differs from the corporate income tax rates.
The weighted average statutory rate was 9.3% for 2012 2011: 15.3%.
This is calculated as the average of the statutory tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profits losses before tax of the subsidiaries in the respective countries, as included in the consolidated financial information.
A reconciliation between the income tax charged in the accompanying financial information and income before taxes multiplied by the weighted average statutory tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2012 is as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Profit before tax 262,005 690,900 Notional tax computed at the weighted average statutory tax rate of 9.3% 2011: 15.3% 24,422 105,531 Derecognition of deferred tax asset 98 30 Effect from changes in local tax rates 7,462 722 Effect from utilisation of non-recognised deferred tax assets 318 781 Effect from capitalised tax loss carry forwards 63 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 8,818 9,186 Tax exempted income 422 912 Non-recognition of deferred taxes on current year losses 3,684 2,284 Tax related to prior years 2,929 150 Other 52 123 Total income tax expense 46,425 115,964 97 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 17: Earnings per share and dividends paid and proposed Basic earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of Ferrexpo plc by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares.
Year ended Year ended 31.12.12 31.12.11 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders: Basic earnings per share US cents 36.63 97.09 Diluted earnings per share US cents 36.57 96.97 Underlying earnings for the year: Basic earnings per share US cents 36.49 97.47 Diluted earnings per share US cents 36.43 97.35 The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: Year ended Year ended Thousand 31.12.12 31.12.11 Weighted average number of shares Basic number of Ordinary Shares outstanding 585,060 584,811 Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares 973 730 Diluted number of Ordinary Shares outstanding 586,033 585,541 The basic number of Ordinary Shares is calculated by reducing the total number of Ordinary Shares in issue by the shares held in treasury refer to note 28.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares.
Underlying earnings is an alternative earnings measure, which the Directors believe provides a clearer picture of the underlying financial performance of the Groups operations.
Underlying earnings is presented after non-controlling interests and excludes adjusted items.
The calculation of underlying earnings per share is based on the following earnings data: Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.12 31.12.11 Profit attributable to equity holders 214,340 567,822 Write-offs and impairment losses 13 836 478 Losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4,067 46 Non-operating foreign exchange gains losses 12 6,629 1,934 Tax on adjusted items 879 282 Underlying earnings 213,493 569,998 Adjusted items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group.
Adjusted items that relate to the operating performance of the Group include impairment charges and reversals and other exceptional items.
Non-operating adjusted items include gains and losses on disposal of investments and businesses and non-operating foreign exchange gains and losses.
Once production commences, stripping costs are transferred to mining assets.
The accounting policy for mine stripping costs is outlined in note 2.
Property, plant and equipment includes capitalised borrowing costs on qualifying assets of US$1,508 thousand 2011: nil.
The capitalised borrowing costs on general borrowings were determined based on the capitalisation rate of 5.8% 2011: nil, which is the average effective interest rate on general borrowings during the period.
The Group has no specific borrowings in relation to qualifying assets during either reporting period.
The carrying value of equipment held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts at 31 December 2012 was US$18,549 thousand 2011: US$7,792 thousand.
During the financial years 2012 and 2011, the Group entered into sale and lease-back transactions for rail cars and mining equipment, which were considered to be finance leases.
No gain or loss was realised on the sale of the assets subject to these finance leases.
Leased assets and assets under hire purchase contracts are pledged as security for the related finance leases and hire purchase liabilities.
US$220,053 thousand of property, plant and equipment have been pledged as security for liabilities 2011: US$128,624 thousand.
The gross value of fully depreciated property, plant and equipment that is still in use is US$45,994 thousand 2011: US$39,781 thousand.
100 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 19: Goodwill and other intangible assets As at 31 December 2012 goodwill and other intangible assets comprised: Exploration and Other intangible US$000 Goodwill evaluation assets Total Cost: At 1 January 2011 98,747 4,527 103,274 Additions 2,205 2,205 Acquisition of subsidiaries 56 56 Disposals 37 37 Translation differences 350 41 391 At 31 December 2011 98,453 6,654 105,107 Additions 3,607 6,304 9,911 Disposals 53 53 Translation differences 40 51 11 At 31 December 2012 98,413 3,607 12,956 114,976 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: At 1 January 2011 957 957 Amortisation charge 931 931 Disposals 19 19 Translation differences 2 2 At 31 December 2011 1,867 1,867 Amortisation charge 980 980 Disposals 53 53 Translation differences 11 11 At 31 December 2012 2,805 2,805 Net book value at: 31 December 2011 98,453 4,787 103,240 31 December 2012 98,413 3,607 10,151 112,171 The goodwill acquired through business combinations in previous periods has been allocated for impairment purposes to one cash-generating unit, as the Group only has one operating segment, being the production and sale of iron ore.
This represents the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Goodwill from business combinations are not amortised, but reviewed for impairment at every balance sheet date and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Impairment testing was performed at 31 December 2012 based on a value-in-use calculation using cash flow projections over the remaining estimated life of the Gorishne-Plavniskoye and Lavrikovskoye mine GPL, which is expected to expire in 2038 according to the current approved mine plan.
The estimated production volumes are based on this mine plan and do not take into account the effects of expected future mine life extension programmes.
The cash flow projection is based on the financial budget covering the next four years and approved by senior management.
The production capacity remains at a fixed level until full capacity is reached and therefore no perpetual growth rate is applied for the cash flow projections beyond the budgeted four years.
The major component of other intangible assets comprises mining licences and purchased software.
101 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 19: Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Key assumptions The principal key assumptions are: Estimates assumptions Basis Future production: Proved and probable reserves and resource estimates Commodity prices: Contract prices and longer-term price estimates Cost of raw materials and other production distribution costs: Expected future costs Exchange rates: Current market exchange rates Discount rates: Cost of capital risk adjusted for the resource concerned Cash flows are projected based on management expectations regarding the development of the iron ore and steel market and the cost of producing and distributing the pellets.
The Company takes into account two principal key assumptions, selling price and total production costs.
Within this, both macro and local factors which influence these are considered.
In determining the future long-term selling price, the Company takes into account external and internal analysis of the longer-term and shorter-term supply and demand dynamics in the local region and throughout the world along with costs of production of competitors and the marginal cost of incremental production in a particular market.
The Company considers local supply demand balances affecting its major customers and the effects this could have on the longer-term price.
The assumptions for iron ore prices ranged from US$85 per tonne to US$128 per tonne of Fe 62% fines CFR North China 2011: US$84 per tonne to US$153 per tonne.
Cost of production and shipping is considered taking into account local inflationary pressures, major exchange rate developments between local currency and the US Dollar, and the longer-term and shorter-term trends in energy supply and demand and the effect on costs along with the expected movements in steel related commodity prices which affect the cost of certain production inputs.
For the purpose of the goodwill impairment test, the future cash flows were discounted using the real pre-tax discount rate of 10% 2011: 10% per annum.
These rates reflect the time value of money and risk associated with the asset, and is in line with the rates used by competitors with a similar background.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Management believes that due to the high value of the projects and resulting reserve base no reasonable change in the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to materially exceed its value-in-use.
Note 20: Available-for-sale financial assets As at 31 December 2012 available-for-sale financial assets comprised: Ownership Carrying value As at As at As at As at US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 31.12.12 31.12.11 Non-current Investments available-for-sale equity instruments: OJSC Stahanov 1.10% 1.10% 534 860 Vostok Ruda LLC 1.10% 1.10% 430 LLC Atol 9.95% 9.95% CJSC AMA 9.00% 9.00% CJSC Amtek 9.00% 9.00% Total non-current 534 1,290 All investments relate to companies incorporated in Ukraine.
102 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 20: Available-for-sale financial assets continued Impairment testing Ferrexpo Petroleum The unquoted equity investments in LLC Atol, CJSC AMA and CJSC Amtek, companies engaged in the exploration and development of oil and gas fields in the Poltava Region of Ukraine, were fully impaired during previous financial years based on a discounted cash flow projection.
The key assumptions used in this calculation were gas condensate prices, gas oil condensate conversion rates, production volumes, production costs, tax rates, projected capital expenditure, the Ukrainian Hryvnia to US Dollar exchange rate and the discount rate.
There are no indications at 31 December 2012 that require a reversal of any impairment losses booked in previous periods.
OJSC Stahanov The value of OJSC Stahanov decreased due to a lower quoted market price for its shares on the Ukrainian stock exchange PFTS as of 31 December 2012.
The decrease of the fair value in the amount of US$326 thousand 2011: decrease of US$1,868 thousand has been recorded against the net unrealised gains reserve.
Vostok Ruda LLC The investment in Vostok Ruda LLC was fully impaired during the current financial year and there are no indications at 31 December 2012 that could require a reversal of the previously booked impairment losses.
Further details regarding available-for-sale investments can be found in note 13 write-offs and impairment losses as well as note 34 related party transactions.
Note 21: Other non-current assets As at 31 December 2012 other non-current assets comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Prepayments for property, plant and equipment 35,711 86,331 Other non-current assets 6,099 7,027 Total other non-current assets 41,810 93,358 103 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 22: Deferred income tax Deferred income tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2012 relate to the following: Consolidated statement of financial position Consolidated income statement As at As at Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 31.12.12 31.12.11 Trade and other receivables 496 73 423 4,019 Inventories 229 306 77 306 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 12 12 293 Property, plant and equipment 23,091 17,194 5,880 7,443 Intangible assets 53 59 IPO costs netted against share premium 33 227 194 499 Tax losses recognised 1,060 2,022 962 206 Other financial assets 56 19 20 18 Trade and other payables 1 1 1 29 Accrued expenses 1,585 1,485 100 511 Defined benefit pension liability 3,767 2,256 1,512 400 Provision for site restoration 353 458 104 49 Other financial liabilities 9 10 1 70 Other items 1 1 7 Total deferred tax assets 30,746 24,052 6,629 1,782 Thereof netted against deferred tax liabilities 1,616 626 Total deferred tax assets as per the statement of financial position 29,130 23,426 Trade and other receivable 759 1,127 370 43 Inventories 267 267 3,962 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 159 218 59 2,896 Property, plant and equipment 1,678 944 726 1,524 Intangible assets 111 Other non-current assets 615 615 48 Other financial assets 185 256 71 256 Employee benefit trust 305 305 259 Trade and other payables 521 520 27 Lease obligations 1 8 7 3 Defined benefit pension liability 12 12 Total deferred tax liabilities 4,197 2,858 1,328 8,093 Thereof netted against deferred tax assets 1,616 626 Total deferred tax liabilities as per the statement of financial position 2,581 2,232 Net deferred tax assets net change 26,549 21,194 5,301 9,875 The movement in the deferred income tax balance is as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Opening balance 21,194 11,063 Income statement credit 5,301 9,875 Charges booked outside of profit or loss 56 590 Foreign currency exchange rate adjustment 2 334 Closing balance 26,549 21,194 As at 31 December 2012, the Group had deductible temporary differences on available tax loss carry forwards in the amount of US$80,582 thousand 2011: US$82,453 thousand for which no deferred tax assets were recognised.
The vast majority of the available tax loss carry forwards relates to the acquired logistics business in Austria and Hungary during the financial year 2010.
Tax loss carry forwards in both tax jurisdictions do not expire.
Temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised amount to US$660,683 thousand 2011: US$582,370 thousand.
104 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 23: Inventories As at 31 December 2012 inventories comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Raw materials and consumables 98,439 78,111 Finished ore pellets 28,142 24,022 Work in progress 5,178 11,280 Other 7,876 4,063 Provision for slow-moving and obsolete inventory items 430 Total inventories current 139,635 117,046 Raw materials and consumables 12,362 Total inventories non-current 12,362 Inventory is held at the lower of cost or net recoverable amount.
Inventories classified as non-current comprises ore stockpiles that are not planned to be processed within one year.
Note 24: Trade and other receivables At 31 December 2012 trade and other receivables comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Trade receivables 116,135 126,715 Other receivables 1,967 3,674 Allowance for doubtful receivables 1,549 1,484 Total trade and other receivables 116,553 128,905 Trade receivables at 31 December 2012 includes US$826 thousand 2011: US$3,249 thousand owed by related parties.
The detailed related party disclosures are made in note 34.
The movement in the provision for doubtful receivables during the period under review was: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Opening balance 1,484 3,881 Recognition 1,080 329 Reversal 1,015 2,735 Foreign currency translation 9 Closing balance 1,549 1,484 The following table shows the Groups receivables at the reporting date that are subject to credit risk and the ageing and impairment profile thereon: As at 31.12.12 Receivables Receivables past due but not impaired Receivables neither past past due and due nor Less than 45 to 90 Over 90 US$000 Gross amount impaired impaired 45 days days days Trade receivables 116,135 1,465 88,792 21,978 1,008 2,892 Other receivables 1,967 84 891 20 531 441 As at 31.12.11 Receivables Receivables past due but not impaired Receivables neither past Gross past due and due nor Less than 45 to 90 Over 90 US$000 amount impaired impaired 45 days days days Trade receivables 126,715 1,218 111,285 11,268 1,337 1,607 Other receivables 3,674 266 2,250 36 27 1,095 The Groups exposures to credit and currency risks are disclosed in note 37.
105 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 25: Prepayments and other current assets As at 31 December 2012 prepayments and other current assets comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Prepayments to suppliers: Electricity and gas 4,094 5,972 Materials and spare parts 3,289 4,833 Services 4,588 2,594 Other prepayments 67 59 Accrued income 22,176 7,660 Other 2,254 1,602 Total prepayments and other current assets 36,468 22,720 Prepayments at 31 December 2012 include US$1,482 thousand 2011: US$693 thousand made to related parties.
Note 26: Taxes payable, recoverable and prepaid The income tax receivable payable balance as of 31 December 2012 is shown below: As at As at US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Opening balance 36,290 41,776 Income statement charge 51,727 125,839 Tax paid 99,771 132,176 Foreign exchange adjustment 557 851 Closing balance 11,197 36,290 Split by: As at As at US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Income tax receivable balance 24,869 384 Income tax payable balance 13,672 36,674 Income tax receivable payable at the year end 11,197 36,290 As at 31 December 2012 taxes recoverable and prepaid comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 VAT receivable 186,900 172,434 Other taxes prepaid 346 517 Total taxes recoverable and prepaid current 187,246 172,951 VAT receivable 97,895 Total taxes recoverable and prepaid non-current 97,895 VAT receivable is as a result of VAT paid on domestic Ukrainian purchases of goods, capital equipment and services and on the import of goods, capital equipment and services into Ukraine to the extent that this cannot be offset on VAT paid on domestic sales.
Ferrexpo currently has limited domestic sales and exports the majority of its products.
As a result, VAT has to be recovered from the Government tax authority and Ferrexpo is reliant on the normal functioning of this system.
During the financial year 2012, FPM received VAT refunds in respect of 2011 and 2012 amounting to US$70,644 thousand and paid Ukrainian VAT amounting to US$221,973 thousand, including US$81,043 thousand in respect of capital expenditure.
As a result, the gross recoverable balance increased by US$129,881 thousand to US$301,535 thousand UAH2,410 million.
Management expects this amount to be fully recovered in local currency.
However, the exact timing of recovery and method of settlement is subject to uncertainties, along with the prevailing exchange rate to the US Dollar at the time of repayment.
In the past, VAT has been recovered in cash and by the issuance of domestic local currency bonds.
An alternative method of settlement could be to offset amounts recoverable against current and future corporate profit tax.
A financial loss could result, for example from the issuance of bonds which trade at a discount at the time of issue: continued late repayment as a result of Government fiscal constraints diminishing the present value of the receivable, or the conversion to US Dollar of local currency received at a different exchange rate to that recorded at the time of payment.
106 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 26: Taxes payable, recoverable and prepaid continued Management has considered these uncertainties including potential continued International Monetary Fund support for the Ukrainian national budget, domestic economic and budgetary constraints, and current discussions with fiscal authorities in making an estimate of the timing of recovery of the VAT due.
Management concluded that a large portion of the VAT is likely to be repaid considerably beyond the settlement terms which will result in additional funding costs for the Group.
As a result, an estimated discount of US$20,000 thousand has been recorded to reflect this uncertainty and its effect is included in finance expense.
The discount was calculated on the basis that VAT refunds will continue to be limited to an amount which is double monthly corporation tax payments, which has been our recent experience.
Based on current management estimates, US$186,900 thousand of VAT is expected to be recovered within one year of the period end, with the remainder, amounting to US$97,895 thousand, net of the associated discount to reflect the time value of money, recoverable after more than one year of the period end.
Further information on the Ukrainian VAT situation is provided in the risk section on page 23.
As at 31 December 2012 other taxes payable comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Withholding tax 540 530 Environmental tax 496 2,373 Source tax 10 42 VAT payable 1,697 Other taxes 5,622 5,132 Total taxes payable 8,365 8,077 Note 27: Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 2012 cash and cash equivalents comprised: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Cash at bank and on hand 304,994 799,361 Short-term deposits 291,566 90,787 Marketable securities 6 Total cash and cash equivalents 596,560 890,154 The Groups exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 37.
Note 28: Share capital and reserves Number of US$000 shares Balance at 31 December 2012 and 2011 121,628 613,967,956 Share capital represents the nominal value on issue of the Companys equity share capital, comprising 0.10 Ordinary Shares.
The fully paid share capital of Ferrexpo plc at 31 December 2012 was 613,967,956 Ordinary Shares 2011: 613,967,956 at a par value of 0.10 paid for in cash, resulting in share capital of US$121,628 thousand 2011: US$121,628 thousand per the statement of financial position.
The closing balance as of 31 December 2012 and 2011 includes 25,343,814 shares which are held in treasury and 3,504,523 shares held in the employee benefit trust reserve 2011: 3,744,658 shares.
107 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 28: Share capital and reserves continued As at 31 December 2012 other reserves attributable to equity shareholders of Ferrexpo plc comprised: Net Treasury Employee unrealised Total Uniting of share benefit trust gains Translation other US$000 interest reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves At 1 January 2011 31,780 77,260 10,172 2,515 291,283 344,420 Foreign currency translation differences 3,661 3,661 Loss on available-for-sale investments 1,868 1,868 Tax effect 437 153 590 Total comprehensive income for the period 1,431 3,508 4,939 Share-based payments 756 756 At 31 December 2011 31,780 77,260 9,416 1,084 294,791 348,603 Foreign currency translation differences 836 836 Loss on available-for-sale investments 326 326 Tax effect 62 32 94 Total comprehensive income for the period 264 804 1,068 Share-based payments 1,608 1,608 At 31 December 2012 31,780 77,260 7,808 820 295,595 348,063 Uniting of interest reserve The uniting of interest reserve represents the difference between the initial investment by Ferrexpo AG in OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining to gain control of the subsidiary in 2005 and the net assets acquired, which under the pooling of interests method of accounting are consolidated at their historic cost, less non-controlling interests.
Treasury share reserve During September 2008, Ferrexpo plc completed a buyback of 25,343,814 shares for a total cost of US$77,260 thousand.
These shares are currently held as treasury shares by the Group.
The Companies Act 2006 forbids the exercise of any rights including voting rights and the payment of dividends in respect of treasury shares.
Employee benefit trust reserve This reserve represents the treasury shares held by Ferrexpo AG setting up an employee benefit trust reserve.
The reserve is used to satisfy future grants for senior management incentive schemes.
Net unrealised gains reserve This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments.
Translation reserve The translation reserve represents exchange differences arising on the translation of non-US Dollar e. g. Ukrainian Hryvnia functional currency operations within the Group into US Dollars.
Share premium Share premium represents the premium paid by subscribers for the share capital issues, net of costs directly attributable to the share issue.
Subsequent increases in the stake have been accounted for using the parent extension concept method of accounting as described in the accounting policy section of the financial statements note 2.
108 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 29: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings, which are measured at amortised cost.
All loans are in US Dollars.
For more information about the Groups exposure to interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risk, see note 37.
As at As at US$000 Notes 31.12.12 31.12.11 Current Other bank loans secured 37 13,321 8,231 Obligations under finance leases 37 3,729 1,384 Interest accrued 37 9,796 9,333 Total current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 26,846 18,948 Non-current Eurobond issued 37 491,438 489,257 Syndicated bank loans secured 37 420,000 420,000 Other bank loans secured 37 62,232 37,955 Obligations under finance leases 37 19,469 4,218 Total non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 993,139 951,430 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,019,985 970,378 As at 31 December 2012 the Group has a syndicated US$420 million revolving pre-export finance facility in place and a US$500 million Eurobond.
The revolving pre-export finance facility was drawn in full on 7 October 2011.
This finance facility is available for 60 months including a commitment amortisation over the final 24 months.
As at 31 December 2012 the major bank debt facility was guaranteed and secured as follows: Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo Middle East FZE assigned the rights to revenue from certain sales contracts: OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining assigned all of its rights of certain export contracts for the pellets sales to Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo Middle East FZE: and the Group pledged bank accounts of Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo Middle East FZE into which all proceeds from the sale of certain iron ore pellet contracts are received.
The unsecured US$500 million Eurobond was issued on 7 April 2011 and is due for repayment on 7 April 2016.
The bond has a 7.875% coupon and interest is payable on a semi-annual basis.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group has no other committed credit lines 2011: US$50,000 thousand.
Note 30: Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2012 trade and other payables comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Materials and services 50,736 31,033 Payables for equipment 9,889 4,401 Dividends payable 87 56 Other 1,897 7,158 Total current trade and other payables 62,609 42,648 Trade and other payables at 31 December 2012 includes US$1,816 thousand 2011: US$3,215 thousand due to related parties see note 34.
The Groups exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 37.
109 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 31: Defined benefit pension liability Ukrainian defined benefit plan The Group makes defined contributions to the Ukrainian State Pension scheme at statutory rates based on gross salary payments for the employees of OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining and LLC Ferrexpo Yeristovo GOK.
Such expenses are charged to the income statement in the period the related salaries are earned.
The Group has also a legal obligation to compensate the Ukrainian State Pension Fund for additional pensions paid to certain categories of the current and former employees of the Group.
Costs relating to this plan are accrued using the projected unit credit method in respect of those employees entitled to such payments.
Additionally, the Group has a legal obligation to its employees in the form of a collective agreement to make a one off payment on retirement to employees with a long-term of service: this has also been included in the provision.
All pension schemes in Ukraine are unfunded.
The defined benefit pension liabilities are calculated by an independent actuary applying accepted actuarial techniques.
At 31 December 2012, this defined benefit plan covered 5,030 current employees 2011: 4,850 people.
There are 1,135 former employees currently in receipt of pensions 2011: 1,165 people.
During the financial year 2011, the local pension legislation changed and the pension schemes maintained by the Group in Ukraine were amended accordingly.
The eligibility conditions for the pension benefits retirement age are more restrictive than before and the calculation of the insured salary changed.
The latter resulted in a reduction of benefits for the employees and consequently the defined benefit pension obligation at the end of the prior financial year ended on 31 December 2011.
Swiss defined benefit plan The employees of the Groups Swiss operation are covered under a collective pension plan, which is governed in accordance with the requirements of Swiss law.
The assets of the pension scheme are held separately from those of the Group and are invested with an insurance company.
The annual pension costs and the defined benefit obligation as well as the fair value of the plan assets are assessed annually by an independent professionally qualified actuary.
The accumulated capital of the employees is subject to interests determined by the local legislation and defined in the regulation of the pension scheme.
On retirement employees are entitled to receive either a lump sum or an annual proportion of their accumulated capital as a pension underpinned by certain guarantees.
The Group, and in certain cases the employees, make contributions to the pension scheme as a percentage of the insured salaries and depending on the age of the employees.
At 31 December 2012, this defined benefit plan covered 20 people 2011: 28 people.
Austrian defined benefit plan The Group has an unfunded retirement benefit obligation covering the Austrian employees of Helogistics.
All payments under the scheme are made by the employer as a lump sum in cases of retirement, occupational disability and death in service or redundancy.
The amount payable is dependent on the years of service up to a maximum of a full annual salary.
The annual costs relating to this plan are accrued using the projected unit credit method.
The annual costs and the defined benefit obligation are assessed annually by an independent professionally qualified actuary.
At 31 December 2012, three current employees 2011: four employees are covered by this plan.
During the financial year 2011, a considerable number of employees covered by this plan were either made redundant or transferred to another subsidiary of the Group, so that the eligible amounts were paid out to these participants of the plan and the defined benefit pension obligation consequently decreased as of the end of the prior financial year ended on 31 December 2011.
These events qualified as a curtailment under IAS 19, and the resulting effects were calculated and included in the benefit expense of the prior year.
The principal assumptions used in determining the defined benefit obligation are shown below: Year ended 31.12.12 Year ended 31.12.11 Swiss Austrian Ukrainian Swiss Austrian Ukrainian scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme Discount rate 1.90% 3.50% 11.90% 2.40% 5.00% 11.00% Retail price inflation 1.25% 2.50% 4.70% 1.00% 2.50% 7.00% Expected future salary increase 3.00% 2.50% 5.28% 3.00% 2.50% 10.50% Expected future benefit increase 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Female life expectancy years 86.0 n a 74.5 86.0 n a 74.5 Male life expectancy years 82.9 n a 63.5 82.9 n a 63.5 110 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 31: Defined benefit pension liability continued Changes in the net present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: Year ended 31.12.12 Year ended 31.12.11 Swiss Austrian Ukrainian Swiss Austrian Ukrainian US$000 scheme scheme scheme Total scheme scheme scheme Total Opening defined benefit obligation 3,693 172 63,452 67,317 2,634 819 53,302 56,755 Current service cost 499 9 4,353 4,861 376 51 3,381 3,808 Employee contribution 135 135 144 144 Interest cost 83 7 6,731 6,821 68 40 5,657 5,765 Contribution by plan participants 288 288 Benefits paid 529 1,115 4,526 6,170 203 1,347 3,746 5,296 Actuarial losses gains 230 14 21,480 21,236 467 31 28,796 29,294 Losses gains on curtailment 277 3,760 3,483 Past service cost 19,962 19,962 Termination benefits 1,022 1,022 271 271 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 133 21 112 81 30 216 267 Closing defined benefit obligation 4,244 109 48,509 52,862 3,693 172 63,452 67,317 Opening plan assets 2,173 2,173 1,579 1,579 Expected return on plan assets 66 66 69 69 Employer contribution 564 564 450 450 Employee contribution 135 135 144 144 Contribution by plan participants 288 288 Benefits paid 529 529 203 203 Actuarial loss 13 13 109 109 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 77 77 45 45 Closing plan assets 2,473 2,473 2,173 2,173 Net funded status 1,771 109 48,509 50,389 1,520 172 63,452 65,144 Unrecognised actuarial losses 1,343 83 30,473 31,899 1,140 3 56,525 57,668 Unrecognised past service cost 5,014 5,014 5,853 5,853 Closing balance defined benefit pensionliability 428 26 23,050 23,504 380 169 12,780 13,329 Benefit expense Current service cost 499 9 4,353 4,861 376 51 3,381 3,808 Interest cost 83 7 6,731 6,821 68 40 5,657 5,765 Amortisation of actuarial loss 81 60 4,558 4,579 46 1 3,587 3,632 Expected return on plan assets 66 66 69 69 Recognised past service cost 836 836 11,528 11,528 Termination benefits 1,022 1,022 271 271 Losses gains on curtailment 306 1,116 810 Current year benefit expense 597 978 14,806 16,381 421 667 19 1,069 Net movement on defined benefit pensionliability: Opening balance 380 169 12,780 13,329 408 819 16,592 17,819 Benefits expense 597 978 14,806 16,381 421 667 19 1,069 Benefits paid 1,115 4,526 5,641 1,347 3,746 5,093 Employer contribution 564 564 450 450 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 15 6 10 1 1 30 47 16 Closing balance 428 26 23,050 23,504 380 169 12,780 13,329 Contributions to the defined benefit plans in 2013 are expected to be US$4,700 thousand for the schemes in Ukraine and US$550 thousand and US$45 thousand for those in Switzerland and Austria respectively.
111 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 31: Defined benefit pension liability continued The asset allocation of the plan assets of the Swiss scheme is as follows: As at As at 31.12.12 As at 31.12.11 As at US$000 % 31.12.12 % 31.12.11 Scheme assets at fair value Equities 24.4 603 22.0 478 Bonds 42.6 1,053 43.4 943 Properties 10.5 260 10.4 226 Other 22.5 557 24.2 526 Fair value of scheme assets 100.0 2,473 100.0 2,173 The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on the market value weighted expected return applicable to the underlying asset category.
Year ended Year ended 31.12.12 31.12.11 Swiss Swiss scheme scheme Expected rate of return on plan assets: Equities 8.47% 4.31% Bonds 2.55% 2.50% Properties 4.86% 2.35% Other 4.26% 4.92% Total 4.44% 3.06% Actual rate of return on plan assets: Equities 14.79% 7.90% Bonds 5.62% 3.24% Properties 13.15% 1.90% Other 3.90% 2.24% Total 8.09% 0.74% The actual return on the plan assets for the Swiss scheme was US$53 thousand 2011: loss of US$40 thousand.
A change in the assumed discount rates would have the following effects: Year ended 31.12.12 Increase Decrease Swiss Austrian Ukrainian Swiss Austrian Ukrainian scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme US$000 0.25% 0.25% 1.00% -0.25% -0.25% -1.00% Effect on the aggregated current service costs and interest costs 25 258 28 284 Effect on the defined benefit obligation 204 3 3,668 220 3 4,216 Year ended 31.12.11 Increase Decrease Swiss Austrian Ukrainian Swiss Austrian Ukrainian scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme US$000 0.25% 0.25% 1.00% -0.25% -0.25% -1.00% Effect on the aggregated current service costs and interest costs 27 504 27 566 Effect on the defined benefit obligation 171 6 6,250 182 4 7,415 112 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 31: Defined benefit pension liability continued The history of unrecognised actuarial losses is as follows for the current and previous four periods: Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31.12.12 31.12.11 31.12.10 31.12.09 31.12.08 Opening balance 57,668 34,630 7,140 6,294 3,292 Change of assumptions on plan liabilities 21,653 11,116 13,600 918 10,551 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 421 18,178 14,299 2,249 16,770 Experience adjustments on plan assets 13 109 194 230 84 Recognised losses 4,579 3,632 564 476 62 Impact on curtailment 2,576 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 29 157 39 239 3,239 Closing balance 31,899 57,668 34,630 7,140 6,294 Note 32: Provision for site restoration The costs of restoration of the different deposits in the Groups open pit mines are based on amounts determined by an independent and credited institute taking into account the codes of practice and laws applicable in Ukraine.
The useful lives of the different pits and mines are determined by the same institute based on expected annual stripping and production volumes having taken into account the expected timing and effect of future mine-life extension programmes.
It is expected that the restoration works of the GPL mine will start after the years 2020, 2038 and 2055 depending on the different areas within the mine.
The first restoration work of the Yeristovo mine is expected to start after 2035.
The provision represents the discounted value of the estimated costs of decommissioning and restoring the mines at the dates when the deposits are expected to be depleted in the relevant areas within the mine.
The present value of the provision has been calculated using a nominal pre-tax discount rate of 11.7% 2011: 8.47% and the costs are expected to be incurred once the restoration works begin in the different areas of the mines.
Uncertainties in estimating the provision include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning and reclamation alternatives and the discount and inflation rates to be used in the calculations.
As at As at US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Opening balance 3,015 2,746 Unwind of the discount 289 216 Arising during the year 935 65 Translation adjustments 1 12 Closing balance 2,368 3,015 Note 33: Accrued liabilities and deferred income As at 31 December 2012 accrued liabilities and deferred income comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Accrued expenses 6,249 8,830 Accrued employee costs 19,726 20,836 Advances from customers 23,938 47 Deferred income 1,372 Total accrued liabilities and deferred income 51,285 29,713 Note 34: Related party disclosure During the periods presented the Group entered into arms length transactions with entities under the common control of the majority owner of the Group, Kostyantin Zhevago, with associated companies and with other related parties.
Management considers that the Group has appropriate procedures in place to identify and properly disclose transactions with the related parties.
Entities under common control are those under the control of Kostyantin Zhevago.
Associated companies refers to TIS Ruda LLC, in which the Group holds an interest of 48.6%.
This is the only associated company of the Group.
Other related parties are principally those entities controlled by Anatoly Trefilov and Olexander Moroz.
Anatoly Trefilov is a member of the supervisory board of OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining from which Olexander Moroz resigned as of 14 May 2010.
All transactions taking place up to 31 May 2011, being within one year of his resignation from the supervisory board, are considered to be transactions with a related party and thus included in the disclosures made for the comparative period.
113 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 34: Related party disclosure continued Related party transactions entered into by the Group during the periods presented are summarised in the following tables: Revenue, expenses, finance income and expenses Year ended 31.12.12 Year ended 31.12.11 Entities Entities under Other under Other common Associated related common Associated related US$000 control companies parties control companies parties a Other sales 1,198 88 6,718 1,783 Total related party transactions within revenue 1,198 88 6,718 1,783 b Materials 5,984 24 4,638 8,475 c Purchased concentrate and other items for resale 21,948 24,891 d Spare parts and consumables 7,859 4,726 256 e Fuel 1,373 7,980 e Gas 9,646 15,455 Total related party transactions within cost of sales 46,810 24 57,690 8,731 f Selling and distribution expenses 9,377 20,493 8,367 6,536 16,674 13,470 g General and administration expenses 1,644 72 1,231 15 Total related party transactions within expenses 57,831 20,493 8,463 65,457 16,674 22,216 h Finance income 917 899 9 h Finance expenses 733 411 Net related party finance income expenses 184 488 9 Entities under common control The Group entered into various related party transactions with entities under common control.
A description of the most material transactions, all of which were carried out on an arms length basis in the normal course of business for the members of the Group see note 1, is given below: a Sales of power, steam and water and other materials to Kislorod PCC for US$480 thousand 2011: US$2,128 thousand.
Revenue of US$507 thousand was received from Vorskla Steel Ltd. for the sale of sand 2011: US$548 thousand.
Other sales as of 31 December 2011 comprised tolling fees of US$2,622 thousand paid by Vostok Ruda Ltd. to OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining for the production of pellets.
No pellets were produced under the tolling scheme during the financial year 2012. b Purchases of compressed air and oxygen from Kislorod PCC for US$4,933 thousand 2011: US$4,033 thousand.
c Purchases of concentrate and other items for resale from Vostok Ruda Ltd. amounting to US$21,948 thousand 2011: US$12,728 thousand.
c No purchases of merchant concentrate from Vostok Ruda Ltd. were made as of 31 December 2012 2011: US$7,458 thousand.
During the financial year 2011, Vostok Ruda Ltd. earned US$10 thousand on the purchase and resale of concentrate.
The fee covered costs incurred in procuring and delivering third party merchant concentrate supplied.
No fee was earned during the financial year 2012. c Handling commissions to SIA Wellmark Latvia amounting to US$35 thousand during the financial year 2011 for the purchase of goods.
No handling commissions were paid during the financial year 2012. d Purchases of spare parts from AutoKraZ Holding Co. in the amount of US$5,255 thousand 2011: US$1,456 thousand : d Purchases of spare parts from CJSC Kiev Shipbuilding and Ship Repair Plant KSRSSZ in the amount of US$805 thousand 2011: US$228 thousand : d Purchases of spare parts from OJSC Berdichev Machine-Building Plant Progress of US$595 thousand 2011: US$1,017 thousand : d Purchases of spare parts from Valsa GTV of US$736 thousand 2011: US$541 thousand : and d Purchase of spare parts from Komsomolsk Cogeneration Company LLC in the amount of US$736 thousand as of 31 December 2011.
No procurement from Komsomolsk Cogeneration Company LLC were made during the financial year 2012. e Purchases of fuel for US$1,373 thousand 2011: US$7,980 thousand from OJSC Ukrzakordongeologia.
Procurement of gas US$9,646 thousand 2011: US$15,455 thousand from OJSC Ukrzakordongeologia.
f Purchases from FC Vorskla for advertisement, marketing and general public relations services during the financial year 2012 of US$9,301 thousand 2011: US$6,536 thousand.
g Insurance premiums of US$686 thousand 2011: US$644 thousand paid to ASK Omega for workmens insurance and other insurances.
g Fees of US$448 thousand 2011: US$355 thousand paid to Bank Finance & Credit Bank F&C for bank services.
h Transactional banking services are provided to certain subsidiaries of the Group by Bank F&C.
Finance income and expenses relate to these transactional banking services.
Further information is provided under transactional banking arrangements on page 116.
114 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 34: Related party disclosure continued Associated companies The Group entered into related party transactions with its Associated Company TIS Ruda LLC, which were carried out on an arms length basis in the normal course of business for the members of the Group see note 1.
These are described below: f Purchases of logistics services in the amount of US$21,438 thousand 2011: US$16,674 thousand relating to port operations, including port charges, handling costs, agent commissions and storage costs.
Other related parties The Group entered into various transactions with related parties other than those under the control of the majority owner of the Group.
Descriptions of the material transactions are below: a Sales of scrap metal to Ferrolit amounting to US$1,201 thousand and other sales of US$509 thousand during the financial year 2011.
Ferrolit is no longer a related party to the Group due to the resignation of Olexander Moroz as a supervisory board member of OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining in May 2010. b Purchases of cast iron grinding bodies from Ferrolit for US$8,475 thousand during the financial year 2011.
As noted above, Ferrolit is no longer a related party to the Group.
f Purchases of logistics management services from Slavutich Ruda Ltd relating to customs clearance services and the coordination of rail transit.
Total billings amounted to US$8,367 thousand 2011: US$13,470 thousand.
Slavutich Ruda Ltd. earned commission income of US$906 thousand on these services 2011: US$809 thousand.
g Purchases of legal services from Kuoni Attorneys at Law Ltd. amounting to US$72 thousand as of 31 December 2012 2011: US$12 thousand.
All services were provided on an arms length basis.
Purchases of property, plant and equipment Year ended 31.12.12 Year ended 31.12.11 Entities Entities under Other under Other common Associated related common Associated related US$000 control companies parties control companies parties Purchases with independent fair and reasonable confirmation 2,659 14,655 Purchases with shareholder approval 55,026 13,167 Other purchases 1,044 i Total purchase of property, plant and equipment 58,729 27,822 i During the financial year 2012, the Group entered into the following transactions with related parties that were not of a revenue nature, but were in the normal course of business.
As such, these transactions were, in so far as they exceeded the relevant aggregated threshold tests on a rolling annual basis, subject to an independent fair and reasonable confirmation that the terms are fair and reasonable in accordance with the requirements of the UK Listing Rules.
Effective 1 October 2012, the UK Listing Rules have been amended to require only independent fair and reasonable confirmation for transactions that are not in the ordinary course of business, irrespective of the nature of the transaction.
During the period from October to December 2012, The Group entered in various transactions with related parties totalling to US$653 thousand.
These transactions were in the ordinary course of business and on an arms length basis and did not require independent fair and reasonable confirmation.
In September 2012, the Group procured metal works from OJSC Berdichev Machine-Building Plant Progress in the amount of US$1,019 thousand in connection with the construction of the flotation equipment.
In July and August 2012, the Group entered in various smaller transactions with related parties totalling US$391 thousand.
No independent fair and reasonable confirmation was required as these transactions did not exceed the relevant aggregated threshold at the point of time of the transactions.
In July 2012, the Group procured design documentation services in the amount of US$194 thousand from OJSC DIOS in relation to replacement of mixers at the pellet plant complex and the construction of a dust aspiration system.
Deslimer equipment in the amount of US$668 thousand was procured from CJSC Kiev Shipbuilding and Ship Repair Plant KSRSSZ and OJSC Berdichev Machine-Building Plant Progress for a beneficiation plant.
In March 2012, project management services in the amount of US$140 thousand were procured from Vorskla Steel Ltd. in connection with the construction of service facilities and technical design documentation amounting to US$618 thousand from OJSC DIOS related to the update of the beneficiation plant.
In February 2012, the Group procured design documentation from OJSC DIOS in the amount of US$21 thousand in relation to the construction of roads and loading facilities.
The Group obtained on 24 May 2012 shareholder approval for an option to purchase up to 500 rail cars from PJSC Stakhanov Railcar Company between the date of the approval and 31 December 2014.
In February 2013, the Group exercised the right under this option to order 267 rail cars.
During the financial year 2011, the Group entered into the following transactions with related parties that required independent fair and reasonable confirmation in accordance with the requirements of the UK Listing Rules.
In December 2011, the Group purchased two dust filters from OJSC Berdichev Machine-Building Plant Progress for the pellet production plant amounting to US$438 thousand.
In November 2011, the Group entered into another agreement with OJSC DIOS for the procurement of engineering design services in the amount of US$739 thousand.
In September 2011, the Group purchased 12 dumper rail cars from PJSC Stakhanov Railcar Company in the amount of US$1,756 thousand.
In August 2011, design services in relation to the conversion of a vessel were provided by Zaliv Ship Design LLC in the amount of US$483 thousand.
In June 2011, project management services in the amount of US$105 thousand were procured from Vorskla Steel Ltd. in connection with the construction of service facilities.
In May 2011, the Group entered into an agreement for the purchase of equipment for the crushing and beneficiation plants from CJSC Kiev Shipbuilding and Ship Repair Plant KSRSSZ in the amount of US$493 thousand.
Orders were also placed for three press-filters for US$8,991 thousand from OJSC Berdichev Machine-Building Plant Progress.
In April 2011, the Group entered into an agreement for engineering services to be provided by OJSC DIOS in the amount of US$1,650 thousand for the upgrade of the crushing and .
The purchase of 400 rail cars from PJSC Stakhanov Railcar Company, with an option to purchase an additional 600 rail cars, was approved by the general meeting of the shareholders on 15 March 2011.
712 rail cars were ordered under the authority of this shareholder approval during the financial year 2011 and 288 rail cars in 2012, bringing the total ordered to 1,000 units.
As of 31 December 2012, all rail cars ordered under this authority had been delivered, which brought the total fleet of rail cars to 1,933 units, not including 200 dumper rail cars previously used in the mine and related area and recently brought into service.
Purchased rail cars under this authority amounting to US$55,026 thousand were put into operation during the financial year 2012 2011: US$13,167 thousand.
115 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 34: Related party disclosure continued Balances with related parties The outstanding balances, as a result of transactions with related parties, for the periods presented are shown in the table below: Year ended 31.12.12 Year ended 31.12.11 Entities Entities under Other under Other common Associated related common Associated related US$000 control companies parties control companies parties j Investments available-for-sale 530 1,286 k Prepayments for property, plant and equipment 625 29,080 Total non-current assets 1,155 30,366 l Trade and other receivables 823 3 1,262 1,981 6 m Prepayments and other current assets 162 1,302 18 414 279 n Cash and cash equivalents 141,424 94,933 Total current assets 142,409 1,302 21 96,609 1,981 285 o Trade and other payables 1,694 122 2,151 549 515 Current liabilities 1,694 122 2,151 549 515 Entities under common control j The balance of the investments available-for sale comprised shareholdings in PJSC Stakhanov Railcar Company 1.10% and Vostok Ruda Ltd. 1.10%.
The ultimate beneficial owner of these companies is Kostyantin Zhevago.
PJSC Stakhanov Railcar Company is further listed on the Ukrainian stock exchange.
The changes of the values in the table above are related to fair value adjustments recorded during the respective reporting periods.
The shareholdings for all investments remained unchanged during the periods disclosed above.
During the financial year 2012, the investment in Vostok Ruda Ltd. was subject to an impairment of US$430 thousand 2011: US$198 thousand.
k As of 31 December 2012, prepayments of US$153 thousand were made to DIOS 2011: US$302 thousand for engineering design services and US$289 thousand to OJSC Berdichev MachineBuilding Plant Progress 2011: nil and US$142 thousand to CJSC Kiev Shipbuilding and Ship Repair Plant KSRSSZ 2011: nil for equipment for the crushing and beneficiation plants.
Prepayments outstanding of US$28,705 thousand in respect of key components for rail cars purchased from OJSC Stahanov Rail Cars Plant as of 31 December 2011.
No prepayments were made to OJSC Stahanov Rail Cars Plant as of 31 December 2012. l As of 31 December 2012, trade and other receivables included outstanding amounts due from Vorskla Steel Ltd. of US$277 thousand 2011: US$828 thousand in relation to other sales and US$461 thousand 2011: US$349 thousand from Kislorod PCC for the sale of power, steam and water.
m Prepayments and other current assets relate mainly to prepayments of US$91 thousand 2011: US$75 thousand to ASK Omega for insurance premiums and US$38 thousand to CJSC Kiev Shipbuilding and Ship Repair Plant KSRSSZ 2011: nil and US$11 thousand to OJSC Berdichev Machine-Building Plant Progress 2011: US$194 thousand for spare parts.
Prepayments are in the normal course of business as requested by any third party supplier in Ukraine.
n As of 31 December 2012, cash and cash equivalents with Bank F&C were US$141,424 thousand 2011: US$94,933 thousand.
Further information is provided under transactional banking arrangements below.
o Trade and other payables amounting to US$599 thousand for compressed air and oxygen purchased from Kislorod PCC 2011: US$535 thousand and US$126 thousand in relation to the purchase of concentrate from Vostok Ruda Ltd. 2011: US$1,276 thousand and US$642 thousand for the procurement of fuel and gas from OJSC Ukrzakordongeologia 2011: nil.
Associated companies l The prior year balance of other receivables consist a declared dividend due from TIS Ruda LLC in the amount of US$1,749 thousand and US$232 thousand in relation to the provision of rail cars to TIS Ruda LLC for the storage of cargo at the port.
No such receivable balances exist as of 31 December 2012. m Prepayments and other current assets relate to prepayments of US$1,302 thousand 2011: nil made to TIS Ruda LLC for transhipment services.
Other related parties m Prepayments and other current assets relate to advance payments of US$18 thousand to Slavutich Ruda Ltd. for distribution services 2011: US$279 thousand.
Prepayments are in the normal course of business and are common for the provision of supplies in Ukraine.
o Trade and other payables amounting to US$99 thousand as of 31 December 2012 are in respect of distribution services provided by Slavutich Ruda Ltd. 2011: US$515 thousand.
Transactional banking arrangements The Group has transactional banking arrangements with Bank Finance & Credit Bank F&C in Ukraine which is under common control of the majority shareholder of Ferrexpo plc.
Finance income and expenses are disclosed in the table on page 114.
The Group has an uncommitted multicurrency revolving loan facility agreement with Bank F&C which will expire on the 16 April 2013.
The maximum limit of this facility, the terms of which was the subject of a fair value opinion at its renewal and extension in April 2010, amounts to UAH80 million 2012: US$ 10,008 thousand: 2011: US$10,013 thousand.
The loan facility has remained undrawn for the entire period of time since renewal in April 2010.
116 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 34: Related party disclosure continued As is required under Ukrainian legislation, assets are pledged or become the subject of a mortgage under the terms of the facility agreements.
The security for short-term agreements with Bank F&C to issue letters of credit and bank guarantees for the supply of goods and services shares the same pledge of assets given in respect of the loan facility.
The average cost of issuing letters of credit and guarantees in 2012 amounts to 0.83% of the value of the financial instruments issued.
The total value of pledges and mortgages under the terms of the loan agreement and letters of credit and guarantee agreements is US$26,180 thousand 2011: US$10,595 thousand.
Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Loan facilities 10,008 10,013 Amount drawn Letter of credit facility outstanding 7,179 322 Bank guarantee facility outstanding 1,081 2,240 Bank F&C provides mortgages and loans to employees of the Group for the acquisition, construction and renovation of apartments in Ukraine.
This is part of a social loyalty programme started by the Group in December 2011 allowing certain employees of the Group to borrow at preferential interest rates.
OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining and LLC Ferrexpo Yeristovo GOK act as guarantors for the banks loans to the employees of the Group and have deposited US$2,085 thousand at Bank F&C as security 2011: US$1,500 thousand.
The interest rate margin earned by Bank F&C covers the costs of administrating the mortgages and loans.
Detailed information on the social loyalty programme is provided in the Corporate Social Responsibility Review section of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Note 35: Employee benefits expenses Employee benefits expenses for the year ended 31 December 2012 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Wages and salaries 76,057 63,302 Social security costs 25,449 21,832 Post-employment benefits 8,276 5,319 Other employee costs 2,927 2,810 Share-based payments 1,608 891 Total employee benefits expenses 114,317 83,516 Average number of employees was as follows: Year ended Year ended 31.12.12 31.12.11 Production 7,189 6,829 Marketing and distribution 171 170 Administration 1,244 1,156 Other 954 966 Total average number of employees 9,558 9,121 Compensation for key management was as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Wages and salaries 6,299 6,229 Social security costs 604 611 Other employee costs 260 352 Total compensation for key management 7,163 7,192 Share-based payments amounting to US$984 thousand 2011: US$1,379 thousand are included in wages and salaries.
117 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 35: Employee benefits expenses continued The balances above include compensation for Non-executive and Executive Directors as well as for other key management personnel.
The details of compensation relating to Non-executive and Executive Directors are disclosed in the table below: Year-ended Year-ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Salary and fees 2,399 2,276 Bonus 694 925 Benefits 228 289 Pension 53 57 Gains made on exercise of nil cost share options under the LTIP 362 422 Total compensation to Non-executive and Executive Directors 3,736 3,969 Note 36: Commitments, contingencies and legal disputes Operating lease commitments Group as lessee Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December 2012 are as follows: As at As at US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Less than one year 3,078 2,582 Between one and five years 8,249 6,135 More than five years 71,475 52,644 Total minimum rentals payable 82,802 61,361 During the year ended 31 December 2012, US$3,063 thousand was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases 2011: US$2,037 thousand.
The Group leases land and buildings under operating leases.
The leases on land typically run for 48 years and with a lease period of 5 to 10 years on buildings.
Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The Group does not have any commitments from lease agreements acting as lessor.
Finance lease commitments Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: As at 31.12.12 Minimum Present value US$000 payments of payments Less than one year 5,421 3,729 Between one and five years 17,616 13,865 More than five years 5,940 5,604 Total minimum lease payments 28,977 23,198 Less: amounts representing finance charges 5,779 Present value of minimum lease payments 23,198 23,198 As at 31.12.11 Minimum Present value US$000 payments of payments Less than one year 1,924 1,384 Between one and five years 4,906 4,218 More than five years Total minimum lease payments 6,830 5,602 Less: amounts representing finance charges 1,228 Present value of minimum lease payments 5,602 5,602 Other As at As at US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Capital commitments on purchase of property, plant and equipment 162,665 137,029 118 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 36: Commitments, contingencies and legal disputes continued Legal In the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to legal actions and complaints.
Management believes that the ultimate liability, if any, arising from such actions or complaints will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or the results of future operations of theGroup.
The Group is currently involved in a share dispute which commenced in 2005 and which was disclosed and as relevant updated in the Groups 2007 Annual Report and Accounts and subsequent IPO and Eurobond prospectuses, interim as well as annual reports as appropriate since then.
A former shareholder in OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining FPM brought proceedings in the Ukrainian courts against certain nominee companies that were previously ultimately controlled by Kostyantin Zhevago, among other parties, seeking to invalidate the shares sale and purchase agreement pursuant to which a 40% stake in FPM which was subsequently diluted to less than 14% following further share issues by FPM was sold to those nominee companies.
On 11 January 2010, a judgement rejecting the claims of the former shareholder that had previously been made by the Commercial Court of Poltava Region was upheld on appeal by the Kyiv Inter Region Appellate Commercial Court.
Following the appeal proceedings, the former shareholder filed a cassation complaint with the High Commercial Court of Ukraine requesting that it reverse the judgements of the lower courts.
The High Commercial Court of Ukraine granted the cassation complaint of the former shareholder on 21 April 2010 and invalidated the respective shares sale and purchase agreement without ruling on any consequences of such invalidity.
On 6 October 2011, the claimants filed a new claim in Ukraine alleging that as a result of invalidity of the shares sale and purchase agreement with respect to a 40% stake in FPM their rights were infringed by the decisions on the capital increases taken at the general shareholders meeting of FPM which took place on 20 November 2002 and all further decisions of the general shareholders meetings of FPM relating to subsequent changes to FPMs charter capital.
Accordingly, the claimants asked the court to invalidate the decisions taken at the general shareholders meeting of FPM which took place on 20 November 2002, restore their status as shareholders of FPM as of 20 November 2002 having a 40% stake in FPM, cancel all share issues of FPM that took place after 20 November 2002 and register shares in their names.
On 22 November 2011, Ferrexpo AG filed a claim against the claimants at the High Court of Justice in London seeking a confirmation of ownership in FPM shares.
The claim was launched in order to take an active step outside Ukraine to resolve this long-running dispute.
By a judgement dated 3 April 2012, the proceedings in the UK were stayed while the case continued in Ukraine.
On 20 August 2012, the Commercial Court of Poltava Region, which was considering the case as a court in the first instance, upon motion of the claimants ruled that the case be transferred to the Kyiv City Commercial Court, which has exclusive jurisdiction over the case, given that one of the defendants in the case, the National Commission on Securities and Stock Market of Ukraine, has the status of a central executive authority.
FPM challenged the transfer of the case to the Kyiv City Commercial Court: however, both the Kharkiv Appellate Commercial Court and the High Commercial Court of Ukraine upheld the ruling of the Commercial Court of Poltava Region dated 20 August 2012.
The case is currently being heard before the Kyiv City Commercial Court by a panel of three judges and at the latest hearing on 28 February 2013 the decision was made to postpone the consideration of the case till 21 March 2013 in order to prepare for further consideration of the case and for the decision on the various motions submitted by the defendants.
After having taken Ukrainian legal advice, the management of the Group believes the claim has little legal merit primarily since neither the final decision by the High Commercial Court of Ukraine nor any subsequent claims entitles claimants to direct enforcement rights to the shares of FPM.
In addition, the restitution of the status quo ante of the shareholding position as sought by claimants does not have a basis under Ukrainian law for various legal, technical and practical reasons.
It follows that no provision was recorded for this dispute as of 31 December 2012.
At the same time, in light of the risks surrounding the operation and independence of Ukrainian courts, including the risks associated with the Ukrainian legal system in general, the claimants may ultimately prevail in this dispute and the Groups ownership of the relevant interest in FPM may be successfully challenged in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on Ferrexpos business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
Tax and other regulatory compliance Ukrainian legislation and regulations regarding taxation and custom regulations continue to evolve.
Legislation and regulations are not always clearly written and are subject to varying interpretations and inconsistent enforcement by local, regional and national authorities, and other Governmental bodies.
Instances of inconsistent interpretations are not unusual.
The uncertainty of application and the evolution of Ukrainian tax laws, including those affecting cross-border transactions, create a risk of additional tax payments having to be made by the Group, which could have a material effect on the Groups financial position and results of operations.
The Group does not believe that these risks are any more significant than those of similar enterprises in Ukraine.
We are disputing several tax claims by domestic tax authorities following inspections for the fiscal years 2011 and 2012 and continue to dispute in the court system amounts resulting from audits in relation to 2009 and 2010.
Corporate profit tax claims are, among other things, claims related to the deductibility of expenses for tax purposes, adjustments in respect of prices charged on the export of products and payments of additional environmental and other taxes and duties.
The aggregate amount claimed by the Ukrainian tax authorities relating to these matters, together with applicable fines and penalties, is approximately US$16,900 thousand.
As we believe the tax authorities claims are unlikely to be enforced no provision has been made for these claims, although there is no guarantee the tax authorities challenges will not succeed.
119 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 36: Commitments, contingencies and legal disputes continued Recoverable VAT amounting to US$103,208 thousand outstanding at 31 December 2012 is in the process of being considered by the Ukrainian court system in several different cases.
As the VAT is fully recoverable under the relevant Ukrainian legislation, the Group expects to ultimately receive positive court decisions for these ongoing court proceedings.
Consequently, the VAT is recorded at its full amount in the financial statements, net of an estimated discount to reflect the time value of money as disclosed in note 26.
Note 37: Financial instruments The accounting classification of each category of financial instruments, and their carrying amounts, are set out below: As at 31.12.12 Financial At fair value liabilities Available-forthrough measured at Loans and sale financial profit or amortised US$000 Notes receivables assets loss cost Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 27 596,560 596,560 Available-for-sale investments 20 534 534 Trade and other receivables 24 116,553 116,553 Other financial assets 860 860 Total financial assets 713,973 534 714,507 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 30 62,609 62,609 Accrued liabilities 33 25,976 25,976 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 29 1,019,985 1,019,985 Total financial liabilities 1,108,570 1,108,570 As at 31.12.11 Financial At fair value liabilities Available-forthrough measured at Loans and sale financial profit or amortised US$000 Notes receivables assets loss cost Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 27 890,154 890,154 Available-for-sale investments 20 1,290 1,290 Trade and other receivables 24 128,905 128,905 Other financial assets 1,656 1,656 Total financial assets 1,020,715 1,290 1,022,005 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 30 42,648 42,648 Accrued liabilities 33 29,666 29,666 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 29 970,378 970,378 Total financial liabilities 1,042,692 1,042,692 Financial risk management Overview The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: credit risk liquidity risk market risk including currency and commodity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Groups management of capital.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
120 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 37: Financial instruments continued The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit.
Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee and the CFO.
The Group operates a centralised financial risk management structure under the management of the Executive Committee, accountable to the Board.
The Executive Committee delegates certain responsibilities to the CFO.
The CFOs responsibilities include authority for approving all new physical, commercial or financial transactions that create a financial risk for the Group.
Additionally, the CFO controls the management of treasury risks within each of the business units in accordance with a Board approved Treasury Policy.
Financial instrument risk exposure and management Natural hedges that can be identified and their effectiveness quantified are used in preference to financial risk management instruments.
Derivative transactions may be executed for risk mitigation purposes only speculation is not permitted under the approved Treasury Policy and are designed to have the effect of reducing risk on underlying market or credit exposures.
Appropriate operational controls ensure operational risks are not increased disproportionately to the reduction in market or credit risk.
The Group has not used any financial risk management instruments that are derivative in nature, or other hedging instruments, in this or prior periods.
Credit risk Trade and other receivables The Group through its trading operations enters into binding contracts which contain obligations that create exposure to credit, counterparty and country risks.
It is the primary objective of the Group to manage such risks to reduce uncertainty of collection from buyers.
A secondary objective is to minimise the cost of reducing risks within acceptable parameters.
Trade finance is used to balance risk and payment.
These risks include the creditworthiness of the buyer, and the political and economic stability of the buyers country.
Trade finance generally refers to the financing of individual transactions or a series of revolving transactions and are often self-liquidating, whereby the lending bank stipulates that all sales proceeds to be collected are applied to settle the loan, the remainder returned to the Group.
Trade finance transactions are approved by the Group Treasurer.
The primary objective is to ensure that the margins paid and conditions applicable should be the same as, or better than, those which other organisations with similar credit worthiness would achieve, and compared with other financing available to the Group.
Credit risk is the risk associated with the possibility that a buyer will default, by failing to make required payments in a timely manner or to comply with other conditions of an obligation or agreement.
Where appropriate, the Group uses letters of credit to assist in mitigating such risks.
Counterparty risk crystallises when a party to an agreement defaults.
Where letters of credit are used to minimise this risk, the Group uses a confirming bank with a similar or higher credit rating to mitigate country and or credit risk of the issuing bank.
Country risk is the potential volatility of foreign assets, whether receivables or investments, that is due to political and or financial events in a given country.
Group treasury monitors the concentration of all outstanding risks associated with any entity or country, and reports to the Group CFO on a timely basis.
Investment securities The Group limits its cash exposure to credit, counterparty and country risk by only investing in liquid securities and with counterparties that are incorporated in an A or better S&P rated OECD country.
A ratings approach is used to determine maximum exposure to each counterparty.
Cash not required within three months for production, distribution and capital expenditures is invested with counterparties rated by S&P or Moodys at a level of long-term BBB S&P or short-term A3 S&P or better.
Recognising that the principal activities of the Group are predominantly in Ukraine, special consideration is given to investments with Ukrainian counterparties.
Exceptions may be made under the following conditions: the counterparty is resident in Ukraine: and the counterparty is included in the Top 15 financial institutions in Ukraine based on the Groups assessment of the creditworthiness of the financial institution.
121 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 37: Financial instruments continued Cash and deposits are held with the Groups transactional bank in Ukraine, which is a related party financial institution.
This bank is registered with the National Bank of Ukraine for receiving and disbursing payments under Group intercompany loans, and is an approved Ukrainian counterparty.
The Group is therefore exposed to Ukraine country risk in this respect as well as in relation to certain of its other activities.
Guarantees The Groups policy is to provide financial guarantees under limited circumstances only for the benefit of wholly-owned or substantially whollyowned subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2012 Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo Finance plc were jointly and severally liable under a US$420 million loan agreement having an outstanding balance of US$420 million 2011: US$420 million.
Ferrexpo plc, Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo Middle East FZE are guarantors to the US$500 million Eurobond Notes issued by Ferrexpo Finance plc, which is due for repayment on 7 April 2016.
Additionally the Notes benefit from a surety agreement provided by OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining.
Ferrexpo AG acts as a guarantor for several finance facilities provided to Ukrainian subsidiaries amounting to US$150,600 thousand 2011: US$47,900 thousand.
Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: As at As at US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Cash and cash equivalents 596,560 890,154 Trade and other receivables 116,553 128,905 Other financial assets 860 1,656 Total maximum exposure to credit risk 713,973 1,020,715 The total receivables balance relating to the Groups top three customers was US$37,383 thousand 2011: US$53,244 thousand making up 32.2% of the total amounts receivable 2011: 57.1%.
Impairment profile The Groups exposure to credit risk relating to trade and other receivables is disclosed in note 24.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach is to ensure that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation by holding surplus cash or undrawn credit facilities.
The Group prepares detailed rolling cash flow forecasts, which assist it in monitoring cash flow requirements and optimising its cash return on investments.
Typically the Group ensures that it has sufficient cash on demand and or lines of credit to meet expected operational expenses for a period of 30 days, including the servicing of financial obligations: this excludes the potential impact of extreme circumstances that cannot reasonably be predicted, such as natural disasters.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities by interest type: As at 31.12.12 Less than Between Between More than US$000 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Total Interest-bearing Eurobond issued 491,438 491,438 Syndicated loans secured 70,000 350,000 420,000 Other banks secured 13,321 13,300 37,864 11,068 75,553 Obligation under finance lease 3,729 3,870 15,600 23,199 Interest accrued 9,796 9,796 Future interest payable 53,323 52,560 71,559 607 178,049 Non-interest-bearing Trade and other payables 62,609 62,609 Accrued liabilities 25,926 50 25,976 Total financial liabilities 168,704 139,780 966,461 11,675 1,286,620 122 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 37: Financial instruments continued As at 31.12.11 Less than Between Between More than US$000 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Total Interest-bearing Eurobond issued 489,257 489,257 Syndicated loans secured 420,000 420,000 Other banks secured 8,231 8,240 29,716 46,186 Obligation under finance lease 1,384 1,412 2,806 5,602 Interest accrued 9,333 9,333 Future interest payable 51,768 51,511 118,818 222,097 Non-interest-bearing Trade and other payables 42,648 42,648 Accrued liabilities 28,663 1,003 29,666 Total financial liabilities 142,027 62,166 1,060,597 1,264,790 Currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of the Group.
Functional currencies for the Group are primarily the Ukrainian Hryvnia, but also US Dollars, Swiss Francs, Euro and Sterling.
The Groups major lines of borrowings and the majority of its sales are denominated in US Dollars, with costs of local Ukrainian production mainly in Hryvnia.
The value of the Hryvnia is managed by the National Bank of Ukraine NBU.
The Group has gross recoverable VAT balances of US$301,535 thousand UAH2,410 million to be recovered from the Ukraine Government tax authority and is reliant on the normal functioning of this system.
The exact timing of recovery is subject to uncertainties, along with the prevailing exchange rate to the US Dollar at the time of repayment.
A devaluation of the Ukrainian Hryvnia will negatively effect the expected cash flows from the refunds in US Dollars.
A devaluation of the Ukrainian Hryvnia will reduce the operating costs of the production unit in US Dollars terms and the value of Hryvnia payables recorded in the statement of financial position at the year end in US Dollars.
As the majority of sales and receivables are denominated in US Dollars, a devaluation in the local currency will result in operating exchange gains recorded in the income statement.
With a devaluation of the local currency, US Dollar denominated loans held by the Ukrainian subsidiary will result in non-operating exchange losses to the extent these are not matched by US Dollar denominated assets.
Fixed assets are similarly held in local currency amounts and a devaluation in the currency will result in reduced net asset values which are recorded in reserves.
The NBU manages and determines the official exchange rates.
An inter-bank market for exchange of currencies exists in Ukraine and is monitored by the NBU.
The Group, through financial institutions, exchanges currencies at bank offered market rates.
Trade receivables are predominately in US Dollars and are not hedged.
Trade payables denominated in US Dollars are also not hedged on the market, but are matched against US Dollar currency receipts.
This includes the interest expense which is principally payable in US Dollars.
Trade receivables and trade payables in Ukrainian Hryvnia are not hedged as a forward market for the currency is generally not available.
Other Group monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are considered immaterial as the exposure to currency risk mainly relates to corporate costs within Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
123 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 37: Financial instruments continued The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts: As at 31.12.12 Ukrainian US Swiss Other US$000 Hryvnia Dollar Euro Franc currencies Total Financial assets 4 112,515 612 835 1,036 115,002 Financial liabilities Other banks secured 39,066 467 39,533 Obligation under finance lease 2,364 2,364 Interest accrued 425 2 427 Total borrowings 41,855 469 42,324 Trade and other payables 4,219 1,754 384 489 6,846 Accrued liabilities 14 348 362 Total financial liabilities 46,074 2,223 398 837 49,532 Net financial assets liabilities 4 66,441 1,611 437 199 65,470 As at 31.12.11 Ukrainian US Swiss Other US$000 Hryvnia Dollar Euro Franc currencies Total Financial assets 7 73,830 19,392 487 1,027 94,743 Financial liabilities Other banks secured 16,930 2 16,932 Obligation under finance lease 5,577 5,577 Interest accrued 43 4 47 Total borrowings 22,550 4 2 22,556 Trade and other payables 2,298 618 346 1,445 4,707 Accrued liabilities 42 42 Total financial liabilities 24,848 622 346 1,489 27,305 Net financial assets liabilities 7 48,982 18,770 141 462 67,438 124 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 37: Financial instruments continued Interest rate risk The Group predominantly borrows bank funds that are at floating interest rates and is exposed to interest rate movements.
The interest rate exposure to US Dollars remained relatively low during the period, and no interest rate swaps have been entered into in this or prior periods.
Profile At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Groups interest-bearing financial instruments was: As at 31.12.12 Other Floating Fixed non-interestUS$000 interest interest bearing Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 305,475 280,097 10,988 596,560 Available-for-sale investments 534 534 Trade receivables 116,553 116,553 Other financial assets 860 860 Total financial assets 305,475 280,957 128,075 714,507 Weighted average interest rate % 0.0% 0.8% Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 62,609 62,609 Accrued liabilities 25,976 25,976 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 462,464 557,521 1,019,985 Total financial liabilities 462,464 557,521 88,585 1,108,570 Weighted average interest rate % 3.0% 7.6% As at 31.12.11 Other Floating Fixed non-interestUS$000 interest interest bearing Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 635,785 193,099 61,270 890,154 Available-for-sale investments 1,290 1,290 Trade receivables 128,905 128,905 Other financial assets 1,656 1,656 Total financial assets 635,785 194,755 191,465 1,022,005 Weighted average interest rate % 0.4% 0.7% Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 42,648 42,648 Accrued liabilities 29,666 29,666 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 471,475 498,903 970,378 Total financial liabilities 471,475 498,903 72,314 1,042,692 Weighted average interest rate % 2.6% 7.9% The interest rate maturity profile for financial liabilities is shown under the liquidity risk section.
The interest rate maturity profile for financial assets is all current for both years.
Commodity risk The Group is exposed to longer-term movements in the price of iron ore, but does not have a commodity risk exposure to its financial assets and liabilities once the sale has been made.
Trade receivables are based on a fixed contract price, and so do not fluctuate with iron ore market prices.
Similarly finished goods are held at cost, with revaluation to a spot price not applicable for iron ore pellets, there being no tradable exchange in the product to ascertain its market value.
125 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 37: Financial instruments continued Sensitivity analysis A 20% strengthening of the US Dollar against the following currencies at 31 December would have increased decreased income statement and equity by the amounts shown below.
This assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.
Year ended Year ended 31.12.12 31.12.11 Income Income statement statement US$000 Equity Equity Ukrainian Hryvnia 11,074 8,164 Euro 269 3,128 Swiss Franc 73 23 Total 10,878 11,315 A 20% weakening of the US Dollar against the above currencies would have an equal but opposite effect to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all the other variables remain constant.
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, and the Group does not hold any derivatives e. g. interest rate swaps.
Therefore a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect profit or loss.
Cash flow sensitivity for fixed and variable rate instruments An increase of 100 basis points bp in interest rates would have increased decreased equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 Net finance charge 1,619 974 A decrease of 100 bp would increase equity and profit by US$2,215 thousand for the year ended 31 December 2012 2011: US$1,682 thousand.
This is on the basis that all the other variables remain constant.
Set out below are the carrying amounts and fair values of the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the consolidated statement of financial position: Carrying amount Fair value As at As at As at As at US$000 31.12.12 31.12.11 31.12.12 31.12.11 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 596,560 890,154 596,560 890,154 Trade and other receivables 116,553 128,905 116,553 128,905 Available-for-sale financial assets 534 1,290 534 1,290 Other financial assets 860 1,656 860 1,656 Total financial assets 714,507 1,022,005 714,507 1,022,005 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 62,609 42,648 62,609 42,648 Accrued liabilities 25,976 29,666 25,976 29,666 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,019,985 970,378 1,026,084 986,913 Total financial liabilities 1,108,570 1,042,692 1,114,669 1,059,227 The fair values of interest-bearing loans and borrowings are based on the cash flows discounted using market interest rates.
The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables and payables are approximately equal to their carrying amounts due to their short maturity.
126 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 37: Financial instruments continued Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Level 1: fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3: fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
As at 31.12.12 US$000 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 534 534 Total available-for-sale financial assets 534 534 As at 31.12.11 US$000 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 860 430 1,290 Total available-for-sale financial assets 860 430 1,290 There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 in the period.
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets As at 31.12.12 As at 31.12.11  for-sale financial financial US$000 assets assets Opening balance 430 628 Total gains or losses: in profit or loss 430 198 in other comprehensive income Transfer out of level 3 Closing balance 430 Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base.
The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on capital, which the Group defines as total shareholders equity, excluding non-controlling interests, and the level of dividends to Ordinary Shareholders.
Please refer to the Statement of Changes in Equity for details of the capital position of the Group.
The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
The Board continues to support maintaining a sound capital base balanced against these market constraints.
127 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 37: Financial instruments continued The Board maintains a dividend policy consistent with the Groups profile, reflecting the investment activities the Group is making on major projects for future production growth and the cash generated by existing operations, whilst maintaining a prudent level of dividend cover.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is subject to externally imposed capital requirements other than a bank covenant requirement to maintain consolidated equity of the Group of US$500,000 thousand including non-controlling interests and excluding the translation reserve.
Compliance is ensured by balancing dividend payments against the earnings of the Group.
For more information about the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings, see note 29.
Note 38: Share-based payments Long-term incentive plan LTIP The following share awards were granted under the LTIP in the previous financial years, the LTIP vesting period is three years.
000 2012 LTIP 2011 LTIP 2010 LTIP Total Year ended 31.12.12 485 485 Year ended 31.12.11 415 415 Year ended 31.12.10 330 330 The LTIP is subject to a performance condition based on the Total Shareholder Return TSR compared to a comparator group, measured over the vesting period, as described in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The following expenses have been recognised in 2012 and 2011 in respect of the LTIP: US$000 2012 LTIP 2011 LTIP 2010 LTIP 2009 LTIP 2008 LTIP Total Year ended 31.12.12 693 592 323 1,608 Year ended 31.12.11 592 319 198 353 756 The fair value of these awards was assessed at their grant date using a simulation or Monte Carlo model consistent with the mathematics underlying the standard Black-Scholes options pricing model, extended to allow for the performance conditions.
Each simulation of the model projects the Companys and comparators share prices with reinvested dividends over the vesting period, allowing for the volatilities and correlations between the shares as estimated from historical data.
From this projection the proportion of awards vesting, and the value to employees, is calculated.
100,000 simulations were run to calculate the fair values.
The fair value is set as the average value over all the simulations.
000 LTIP Beginning of the year 3.38 3.92 905 905 Awards granted during the year 2.32 4.28 485 415 Forfeited during the year 5.52 64 Lapsed during the year 2.61 10 Vested during the year 1.94 5.52 240 341 Outstanding at 31 December 3.23 3.38 1,150 905 128 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Note 39: Operating profit by function Before Before adjusting Adjusted Year ended adjusting Adjusted Year ended US$000 Notes items items 31.12.12 items items 31.12.11 Revenue 6 1,424,030 1,424,030 1,788,012 1,788,012 Cost of sales 7 694,576 694,576 649,544 649,544 Gross profit 729,454 729,454 1,138,468 1,138,468 Selling and distribution expenses 8 311,964 311,964 317,951 317,951 General and administrative expenses 9 56,329 56,329 51,969 51,969 Other income 10 11,347 11,347 6,943 6,943 Other expenses 11 30,161 4,903 35,064 17,091 523 17,614 Operating foreign exchange gain 12 653 653 1,360 1,360 Operating profit 343,000 4,903 338,097 757,040 523 756,517 Share of profit of associates 14 2,772 2,772 2,012 2,012 Total profit from operations and associates 345,772 4,903 340,869 759,052 523 758,529 Summary of adjusted items: Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.12 31.12.11 Operating adjusting items Write-offs and impairment losses 13 836 478 Losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4,067 45 Total operating adjusting items 4,903 523 Note 40: Business combination Prior year business combination On 1 October 2011, the Group acquired 77.6% of Transcanal S. R. L. Transcanal.
The consideration of US$557 thousand has been transferred in cash to the previous shareholder of the 77.6% stake.
The fair value of assets acquired amounted to US$803 thousand and liabilities assumed to US$158 thousand.
Based on the definitely determined initial accounting for the acquisition of Transcanal, the acquisition resulted in a goodwill of US$56 thousand.
Had this business combination been effected at 1 January 2011, the revenue of the Group would have been US$588 thousand higher, and the profit for the year would have been US$75 thousand higher.
Note 41: Events after the reporting period No material adjusting or non-adjusting events have occurred subsequent to the year end other than the proposed dividend disclosed in note 17.
