Fidessa group plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 0!
0 Fidessa group plc Fidessa or the Company, is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 8th February 2013.
3% # a high level of recurring revenue and a broad spread of customers.
As a consequence of these factors and having.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
0% Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
1 Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis with the exception of financial instruments which are stated in accordance with IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The following standards and interpretations have been adopted for the first time in these financial statements: !
00 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters0$!
00 Income Taxes Deferred taxes: Recovery of Underlying Assets0$!
0 The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results for which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates, assumptions and judgements that are likely to contain the greatest degree of uncertainty are summarised in note 23.
1, Company to all periods presented in these financial statements.
Fidessa group plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 0!
0 continued 2 Significant accounting policies a Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Fidessa group plc and its subsidiaries.
There are no associates or joint ventures.
0 obtain the benefits from its activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
% 0. group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
b Foreign currency i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to Sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the % !
5 are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction ii Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to Sterling at rates approximating the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are.
1, !0 investment in foreign entities are recognised in the translation reserve.
On disposal of a foreign entity the cumulative translation differences are recycled to the income statement and recognised as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
c Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on 3$% $ 0.
0%05 so as to obtain benefits from its activities.. -1% %0%.
!0 recognised amount of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
"Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated 3%0$0$!% 1! """
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
For acquisitions between 1st January 2004 and 31st December 2009, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of -1% %0% 2!.
as part of the cost of the acquisition.
Any contingent consideration payable was recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of contingent consideration were recognised as an adjustment to the carrying value of goodwill.
Fidessa group plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 d Revenue Revenue represents the fair value for consideration received or receivable from customers for software and related !.
there is persuasive evidence that a contract exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection of the resulting receivable is considered probable.
Full allowance is made for all known or expected losses.
Recurring revenue is derived from the provision of software rental, software as a service, connectivity services, market data and support services.
Revenue for these services is recognised monthly over the period that the service is to be, .
"2% % "" implementation, consultancy, reconfiguration support and training services, in all cases being entirely related to Fidessa products."
These services are predominantly chargeable on a time and materials basis and the revenue is recognised when the work is performed.
When implementations are performed on a fixed price basis the revenue is recognised over the period of implementation in accordance with the estimated percentage completed for each contract, based on 0$!
5 identified in contracts and the fair value determined respectively.
Deferred revenue represents amounts invoiced to customers for services not yet supplied.
Accrued revenue represents amounts recognised as revenue to be invoiced in a future period.
% recognised as an employee expense over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value of the incentives granted is measured using a binomial model or a Monte Carlo simulation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the incentives were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share incentives that vest except where forfeiture is only due to the share price not achieving the threshold for vesting.
"Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises, in its % %2% 1 ""% % 0 0!"
f Post employment benefits Certain subsidiaries operate defined contribution pension schemes for their employees.
Pension costs are charged to the income statement as they arise.
The effective interest rate used reflects the anticipated cash flows to be received.
Fidessa group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 0!
0 continued h Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
i Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The cost is the purchase price of the goods received.
Purchased software that is integral to the related equipment is capitalised as part of that equipment.
05, 0 equipment by equal instalments over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: 1.
j Intangible assets Research and development Expenditure on research into areas such as potential new technologies, methodologies and architectures is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Product development relates to the design, programming and testing of new and enhanced % 0!..
0 are capitalised as intangible assets when it is probable that the development will provide economic benefits, considering its commercial and technological feasibility, resources are available for the development, and costs can be measured reliably.
The expenditure capitalised is the direct labour cost and is managed and controlled centrally.
Other development expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Product development costs previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Capitalised product development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.. 1 0 !2!
Fidessa group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Goodwill 3%.
1 0 recognised on acquisition date less any accumulated impairment losses.
Acquisition intangibles Intangible assets acquired from a business combination are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition and amortised over their estimated useful economic life.
Their carrying value is the fair value at acquisition less cumulative amortisation and any impairments.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights.
The estimated useful lives of the intangible assets are as follows: 1 0 !..
The cost is the purchase price of the asset.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on 0.
# 3% brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Software purchased for internal use is amortised over two years.
The recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill relates is estimated and the carrying amount is tested annually for impairment or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
The carrying values of assets other than goodwill are reviewed for impairment only when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
In an impairment test, the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit or asset is estimated to determine the extent of any impairment loss.
"The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and the value in use ""."
1 0 In determining a cash generating units or assets value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present 2 1!1 % #, .
"%""% to the cash generating unit or asset that have not already been included in the estimate of future cash flows."
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
m Investments and financial instruments Investments in subsidiary companies, which are all unquoted equity investments, are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of subsidiaries, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
n Trade receivables Trade receivables are stated at amortised cost, their carrying value being reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
$%#$ 5 %-1% investments with original maturities of three months or less.
p Trade payables Trade payables are stated at amortised cost.
expense over the periods in which the expense is recognised.
r Employee share trusts The trusts and share incentive plan trustees, which purchase and hold ordinary shares of the Company in connection with employee share plans, are included in the Companys financial statements and presented as a deduction from equity.
Any consideration paid or received by them for the purchase or sale of the Companys own shares is shown as a movement in shareholders equity.
1 0 of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
when it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle an obligation or the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability and instead a contingent liability is disclosed.
Fidessa group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3 Recent accounting developments At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards, interpretations and amendments were % 1!
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement.
Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS27 Separate Financial Statements.
Joint Arrangements and IAS28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
Disclosure of Interests in Other Entries.
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine.
00 Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
00 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
00 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
00 Presentation of Financial Statements Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income.
00 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Government Loans.
00 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS11 Joint Arrangements and IFRS12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Transition guidance.
00 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS11 Joint Arrangements and IFRS12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Investment Entities.
Improvements to IFRS1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements, IAS16 Property, Plant and Equipment, IAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS34 Interim Financial Reporting.
It is considered that the above standards, amendments and interpretations will not have a significant effect on the.
5.. 1, 4 Segment reporting The Market Review accompanying these annual financial statements reports on the marketplace that Fidessa addresses 0$!.
0 reporting reflects the structure of the business operations which are focused on the method of delivery to the marketplace.
1 $ as core product development, office costs and overhead functions, are controlled and monitored centrally.
The primary management and performance monitoring is undertaken by the Operating Board which comprises the heads of the business units and global functional heads.
#% # integrating Fidessa products, services and consultancy and working with customers to deliver a complete solution.
"The Hosted business unit is focused on the software as a service delivery model allowing rapid deployment of complex 3. '"""
'% #3%0$ customers to deliver a complete solution.
All segments leverage Fidessa products in the areas of connectivity and.
provision of market data services.
In prior years the Hosted business unit had responsibility for the provision of !
connectivity and market data services and the provision of components of the hosted service for implementation to enterprise customers.
Revenue and direct costs are reported by business unit to present a profit contribution for each unit, such revenue and costs being measured and reported to the Operating Board.
The Operating Board monitors overall operating profit excluding amortisation of acquisition intangibles and product development capitalisation and amortisation, which is not an IFRS measure.
Finance income, assets and liabilities are not reported by business unit.
the consultancy fees for implementation, configuration and ongoing support activity.
Fidessa group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 A reconciliation of business unit profit contribution to profit before income tax is provided as follows: 2012 000 1 % !
0 continued Individual countries within Asia do not meet the disclosure requirements of IFRS8 Operating Segments but in aggregate their revenues are sufficiently material that disclosure has been made.
Revenue is attributed to a country based on the ownership of the customer contract and where the work is being performed.
"!0 Fidessa group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5 Operating expenses 2012 000 0 """" 0."
237,147 Other operating income represents income from sublet office space.
"0 ""3$% $ includes the amount capitalised above."
0 including recruitment, training and infrastructure costs.
The grants are deducted from the related expense in the period that th!
% Fidessa group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 0!
279 Fidessa group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 Income tax expense 2012 000 1.. !
% 2013 and this reduction has been reflected in the measurement of deferred tax balances.
5 enacted at the balance sheet date and its effect is not included in these financial statements.
450 Fidessa group plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 0!
0 continued 10 Earnings per share Earnings per share have been calculated by dividing profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, details of which are below.
The diluted earnings per share have been 1 0!
0 82.4p 82.4p Basic and diluted earnings per share have been adjusted to exclude the amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Management consider that earnings per share after this adjustment provide a better year to year comparison of performance.
5 Fidessa group plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 0!
used to determine the recoverable amount of cash generating units.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are the discount rate applied, future growth rate of the revenue and operating margin.
These take into account the existing customer base and revenue commitments from it, anticipated additional sales to existing and new customers, planned expansion of the product offerings and the specific market trends that are currently seen or expected in the future.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of LatentZero resulted from the value of the assembled workforce, the synergistic 01. !
which has been extended for the following four years based on the estimated growth rate which management consider reflects a reasonable future rate for the cash generating unit after considering recent growth rates, the increasing amount of recurring revenue, assessing the market opportunities and threats and the potential to expand the addressable market.
The cash flow forecast is discounted by the discount rate which has been calculated after assessing the specific risk premium for the cash generating unit, current gilt rates and the businesss beta factor.
Fidessa group plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 !
applied to the cash flow forecast.
The value in use calculation results in a recoverable amount that exceeds the carrying 2 1!
0 Cost Cumulative cost at 1st January 2011 Fully expensed 1 1 0%2!
5 At 1st January 2011 Fidessa group plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 0!
0 continued Product development capitalised and software purchased for internal use.
1 0 development is a continual process without defined end dates.
Fidessa group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 14 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: !0 % % %0%!
0 settle the balances on a net basis.
Fidessa group plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 0!
0 continued 15 Trade and other receivables 2012 000.
37,147,858 3,715 3,698 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
All shares rank equally with regard to the Companys residual assets.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents the excess of the fair value over the nominal value of shares issued by the Company to -1%.
0 in an acquiree company under an arrangement which provides for the allotment of equity shares by the purchaser in return for the equity interest in the acquiree must apply Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
When applicable, the section requires that the premium on the issue of equity shares by the purchaser company be disregarded.
Accordingly, the Company did not record a premium on the shares it issued but recognised a merger reserve in the consolidated balance sheet.
The merger reserve arises from the acquisition of LatentZero Limited in 2007.
Cumulative translation adjustment The cumulative translation adjustment comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations.
Employee share trusts The holdings of the employee share trusts utilised to satisfy share incentive awards are as follows: As at 31st As at 31st 0 0 0 0 December December !
18,866 0.1% Fidessa group plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 Trade and other payables 2012 1.. !
0 '% #% 0 1 0 5 1 tenant arrangements, plus dilapidation provisions for properties currently in use.
Other provisions include a number of employee and legal related amounts.
Both property and other provisions are expected to be utilised in one to five years.
Fidessa group plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 0!
0 All share incentives are over ordinary shares of the Company.
The fair value of incentives is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The employee expense is recognised equally over the time from grant 1 0% 2!
!% 3 Up to and including 2010 the Company granted share incentives to employees under the Company Share Option Plan 0$!
Meeting in May 2011 the Performance Share Plan PSP, Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP and Monthly Share Purchase Plan MSPP were approved.
The first grant from the DABP and grants of matching shares from the MSPP occurred in 2012.
In addition, the Company started awarding matching shares to participants in the Share Incentive Plan #.
% # For share incentives under the CSOP and SBP the fair value has been measured using a binomial model.
The expected volatility was based on the historic volatility adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility.
The inputs to and output from the model are listed below:.
"1 Fidessa group plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 $!"""
volatility was based on the historic volatility adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility.
The inputs to and output from this model are listed below:.
expected volatility was based on the historic volatility adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility.
1 Awards under the CSOP subsisting at 31st December 2012 were:, 0% !
Fidessa group plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 0!
0 continued Awards under the SBP subsisting at 31st December 2012 were: 10 0 % # !
at the time of exercise was 1700p.
Awards under the DABP subsisting at 31st December 2012 were: 10 0 % # !
Awards under the MSPP for matching shares subsisting at 31st December 2012 were: 10 0 % # !
Fidessa group plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Awards under the SIP for matching shares subsisting at 31st December 2012 were: 10 0 % # !
For all SIP awards exercised in 2012 the weighted average share price at the time of exercise was 1448p 2011: no options exercised.
1, The remuneration of individual directors is disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The remuneration of directors and other members of key management during the year was as follows: 2012 000 $.
0 5,553 21 Financial risk management The use of financial instruments is managed under policies and procedures approved by the Board.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset.
At the balance sheet date, there were no significant concentrations of customer credit risk.
The largest customer accounts for !
Cash equivalents are deposited only with major financial institutions that satisfy certain credit criteria as specified in 0$!.
Fidessa group plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 0!
%00 customers in the normal course of business and the amount that appears in the balance sheet is net of an allowance for specific doubtful receivables, the allowance generally being due to concerns regarding a customers solvency or the age of a receivable.
In most situations where a receivable is aged but no specific allowance has been made for it, no revenue $ !!
!% not covered by a related amount in deferred revenue.
The uncertain economic conditions and the higher than normal occurrence of insolvencies, consolidation and cost cutting in the customer base have led to the new allowances in the year.
The movement in the allowance for doubtful receivables is in the table below.
2,690 3,399 Liquidity risk The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities..
7,367 7,174 30,470 It is expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis will not arise materially earlier or at significantly different values.
Fidessa group plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Interest receivable and payable $!.
1, overall objective with respect to these deposits is to maintain a balance between security of the funds, accessibility of funds and competitive rates of return.
In practice, this means that deposits are unlikely to be made with a maturity date greater than three months.
All deposits are at current market rates.
5 other than the functional currency and on the translation of the balance sheet and income statement of foreign, !.
0. currency exposure is consistent with the split of revenue by currency.
Over the longer term, permanent changes in foreign exchange would have an impact on consolidation of foreign subsidiaries earnings.
It is estimated that a general increase of one percentage point in the value of Sterling against 0$!.
Capital management The Board monitors the total equity, distributable reserves and the cash and cash equivalents balance in considering its.
1, % 0 % strong capital base so as to maintain employee, customer, market, investor and creditor confidence in the business and to ensure that it continues to operate as a going concern.
The annual dividends have increased at a similar rate to the growth in earnings per share.
The level of annual dividend provides a regular return to shareholders whilst also providing growth in the cash resources available to fund acquisitions or other investment activity.
Special dividends have been used to return additional funds to shareholders.
"Fair values Unless otherwise disclosed, there is no significant difference between the carrying values shown in the balance sheet 0$!"""
3%0$ remaining life of less than one year, the amortised cost is deemed to reflect the fair value.
Fidessa group plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 0!
three years to 20 years, longer term leases normally having options to break the commitment before the end of the term.
Lease terms of greater than five years are often subject to a rent review during the term.
Part of the office space was sublet to an entity outside of the Fidessa group.
The sublease expired in July 2012.
23 Accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates, assumptions and judgements that are likely to contain the greatest degree of uncertainty are summarised below.
This summary is not a list of all risks, estimates and judgements encountered by 0$!.
The assessment as to whether material elements of this expenditure will be technically feasible, generate future economic benefit or the period over which to amortise the expenditure is a matter of judgement.
The carrying value of product development capitalised and the amounts capitalised and amortised in the year are detailed in note 13. b Income taxes In recognising income tax assets and liabilities estimates have to be made of the likely outcome of decisions by tax authorities on transactions and events whose treatment for tax purposes is uncertain and on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
c Revenue The revenue for fixed price implementations is recognised on a percentage of completion basis for each contract.
Management also makes estimates in determining the fair value of the elements of service provided in a contract and the value of discounts given.
Estimates are continually revised based on changes in the facts relating to each contract.
Fidessa group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 d Fair values IFRSs require many assets, liabilities and expenses to be recognised at fair value.
This includes the intangible assets 0!
e Impairment of goodwill The determination of whether or not goodwill has been impaired requires an estimate to be made of the value in use of the cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated.
"The value in use calculation includes estimates about 0$!""101."
% are materially adverse to the estimates used for the impairment testing an impairment charge may be triggered.
f Expected useful lives The carrying value of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets and the respective depreciation and amortisation of these assets is affected by the assumptions made in determining the expected useful lives of the assets.
Management makes estimates of the useful lives.
