Shareholder information The Annual Report and Accounts, shareprice information, Company presentations, contact details andothershareholder information areavailable on the website at www.
com Contact information FirstGroup plc offices Unsolicited mail Registered office London office As the Companys share register is, by law, open to public inspection, FirstGroup plc FirstGroup plc shareholders may receive unsolicited mail from organisations that use it 395 King Street 50 Eastbourne Terrace as a mailing list.
To limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive, Aberdeen AB24 5RP London W2 6LG write to the Mailing Preference Service, DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, Tel.
44 0 20 7291 0505 London W1W 8SS or register online at www.
44 0 20 7436 3337 Direct dividend payments Shareholder enquiries If you would like your dividend to be paid directly into your bank The Companys share register is maintained on our behalf by Equiniti, or building society account, you should contact the Registrar or who are responsible for making dividend payments and updating the complete the dividend mandate attached to your dividend cheque.
register, including details of changes to shareholders addresses and Mandating your dividends has a number of advantages: purchases and sales of the Companys shares.
The dividend will go into your account on the payment date there If you have any questions about your shareholding in the Company or is no chance of it being delayed in the post and you do not have to need to notify any changes to your personal details you should contact: wait for a cheque to clear.
The payment method is more secure than receiving a cheque Equiniti through the post.
You still receive tax information about the dividend, which is sent Lancing directly to you at your registered address.
0871 384 2046 Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP or from overseas on Tel.
44 0 121 415 7050 The Company offers shareholders the option to participate in a DRIP.
This enables shareholders to reinvest their cash dividends in Employee share schemes FirstGroup plc shares.
For more information please contact: Employees with queries about shares held in the Companys The Share Dividend Team employee share schemes should contact: Equiniti Yorkshire Building Society Aspect House Yorkshire Building Society Share Plans Spencer Road 1 Filey Street Lancing Bradford BD1 5AT West Sussex BN99 6DA Tel.
44 0 121 415 7173 Duplicate shareholder accounts Online information If you receive more than one copy of Company mailings this may The Registrar also provides an online service enabling you to access indicate that more than one account is held in your name on the details of your shareholding.
To view your details, complete certain Register.
This happens when the registration details of separate amendments instantly and access a range of general information about transactions differ slightly.
If you believe more than one account holding shares, visit www.
exists in your name you may contact the Registrar to request that Calls to these numbers are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline: other telephone the accounts are combined.
There is no charge for this service.
Telephone lines are open from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
124 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012
