224 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Shareholder information Financial calendar Share fraud warning Preliminary Statement: 12 March 2013 Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an inated price for shares they own.
First Interim Management Statement: 18 April 2013 Thesecalls come from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms, mostly based abroad.
Whilehigh profits are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose Annual General Meeting: 2 May 2013 theirmoney.
Mostvictims are experienced investors, losing on average 20,000.
Interim Statement: 6 August 2013 Protect yourself Second Interim Management Statement: 17 October 2013 If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, inated prices for Dividend payment schedule sharesyou own, or free company or research reports, take these steps before handing 2012 Final Dividend Record Date: 19 April 2013 overany money: 2012 Final Dividend Payment Date: 8 May 2013 1.
Get the name of the person and organisation.
Check the FSA Register at www.
uk fsaregister to ensure they are authorised.
2013 Interim Dividend Record Date: 16 August 2013 3.
Use the details on the FSA Register to contact the rm.
2013 Interim Dividend Payment Date: 10 September 2013 4.
Call the FSA Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234 if there are no contact details ontheRegister or you are told they are out of date.
Search the list of unauthorised rms and individuals to avoid doing business with.
REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
Equiniti Ltd If you use an unauthorised rm to buy or sell shares, you will not have access to the Financial Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
West Sussex BN99 6DA Report a scam United Kingdom If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FSA using the form at ww.
uk scams where you can also review the latest scams or call the Registered ofce ConsumerHelpline on 0845 606 1234.
28 Grosvenor Street If you have already paid money to share fraudsters then contact Action Fraud London W1K 4QR on 0300 123 2040 United Kingdom For further information, please visit our website: www.
com or contact: Corporate headquarters Fresnillo plc Moliere No.
222 Tel: 44 0 20 7399 2470 Col. Polanco Gabriela Mayor, Head of Investor Relations 11540 Mexico, D. F. Forward looking statements Mexico This document includes statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking Sponsor statements.
These forward-looking statements can be identied by the use of forwardJPMorgan Cazenove Limited looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, plans, projects, 20 Moorgate anticipates, expects, intends, may, will, or should or, in each case, their negative or London EC2R 6DA other variations or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans, objectives, United Kingdom goals, future events or intentions.
These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this document and Joint Corporate Broker include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Groups intentions, beliefs or current JPMorgan Cazenove Limited expectations concerning, among other things, the Groups results of operations, financial 20 Moorgate position, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the silver and gold industries.
By their London EC2R 6DA nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future United Kingdom events and circumstances.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the actual results Merrill Lynch International of the Groups operations, financial position and liquidity, and the development of the markets 2 King Edward Street and the industry in which the Group operates, may differ materially from those described in, London EC1A 1HQ or suggested by, the forward-looking statements contained in this document.
In addition, United Kingdom even if the results of operations, financial position and liquidity, and the development of the Auditor markets and the industry in which the Group operates are consistent with the forwardlooking statements contained in this document, those results or developments may not be Ernst & Young LLP indicative of results or developments in subsequent periods.
A number of factors could 1 More London Place cause results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the London SE1 2AF forward-looking statements including, without limitation, general economic and business United Kingdom conditions, industry trends, competition, commodity prices, changes in regulation, currency Solicitor uctuations including the US dollar and Mexican peso exchange rates, the Groups ability to recover its reserves or develop new reserves, including its ability to convert its resources into Linklaters LLP reserves and its mineral potential into resources or reserves, changes in its business strategy, One Silk Street political and economic uncertainty.
London EC2Y 8HQ United Kingdom Forward-looking statements may, and often do, differ materially from actual results.
Any forward-looking statements in this document speak only as of the date of this document, reect the Groups current view with respect to future events and are subject to risks relating to future events and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the Groups operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity.
Investors should specically consider the factors identied in this document which could cause actual results to differ before making an investment decision.
Subject to the requirements of the Prospectus Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules or applicable law, the Group explicitly disclaims any obligation or undertaking publicly to release the result of any revisions to any forward-looking statements in this document that may occur due to any change in the Groups expectations or to reect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Design and production: Radley Yeldar | www.
com This report has been printed on revive 100 white silk and revive 100 premium white uncoated, a paper which is certied by theForest Stewardship Council.
The paper ismade in a mill registered to EMAS, the EcoManagement Audit Scheme, and with ISO14001 environmental management systemaccreditation.
Printed digitally by Pureprint Group without theuse of lm separations, plates and associated processing chemicals.
99% of alldry waste associated with this production has been recycled.
Pureprint Group is certicated to ISO 14001 environmental management system, is registered to EMAS the Eco Management Audit Scheme, is a CarbonNeutral Company and has been awarded The Queens Award forEnterprise: Sustainable Development.
Registered ofce 28 Grosvenor Street London W1K 4QR United Kingdom
