222 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Glossary Adit Entrance to an underground mine which is horizontal or nearly horizontal by which the mine can be accessed, drained of water and ventilated Backll A mining method used to ll previously mined-out stopes often mine waste tailings blended with cementitious binders in order to provide regional rock support beneficiation plant Facility where extracted ore is reduced to particles that can be separated into mineral that is suitable for further processing or direct use Capex Capital expenditures: expenditures not classied as operating costs Company see also Fresnillo plc, a company incorporated under the UK Companies Act 1985 and registered in England and Wales with Fresnilloplc registered number 6344120 Concentrate A metal-rich product resulting from a mineral enrichment process such as gravity concentration or otation, in which most of the desired mineral has been separated from the waste material in the ore Diamond drilling A drilling method where the rock is cut with a diamond bit attached to hollow rods: it cuts a core of rock, recovered in cylindrical sections for geological analysis Dilution Waste, which is unavoidably mined with ore Disseminated deposit or A disseminated deposit is that in which the metal is evenly distributed in generally low concentrations throughout large orebody masses of rock.
Dor An impure alloy of gold and silver, generally the final product of mining and processing: the dor bullion will be rened into high purity metal Ejido s In Mexico, the communal farmland of a village, usually assigned in small parcels to villagers to be farmed under a federally supported system of communal land tenure Exploraciones Minera A wholly-owned Fresnillo plc company that controls a number of exploration prospects Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. Flotation A recovery process by which valuable minerals are separated from waste to produce a concentrate: selected minerals are induced to become attached to air bubbles and oat Fresnillo Group see also Fresnillo plc and its subsidiary undertakings Group Fresnillo plc see also A company incorporated under the UK Companies Act 1985 and registered in England and Wales with registered Company number 6344120 g t Grammes per tonne GHG Greenhouse gases GJ Gigajoules Grade The measure of concentration of metal within mineralised rock Group see also Fresnillo plc and its subsidiary undertakings FresnilloGroup Haulage A horizontal underground excavation which is used to transport mined ore Hectare A unit of area equal to 10,000 square metres, or 2.47 acres Hoist Equipment used in underground mining to raise and lower conveyances within the mine shaft International Cyanide Voluntary industry and audit-based program for the gold mining industry to promote responsible management of Management Code cyanide used in gold mining koz Thousand troy ounces KPI Key Performance Indicator Leaching, heap leaching or A process to extract metals from ore in which the mined ore is crushed and heaped onto an impervious pad and dynamic leaching irrigated with a leaching agent that percolates through the heap and leaches out the metals.
In dynamic leaching, the piles are continuously reclaimed after leaching has been completed and subsequently rebuilt with fresh ore Met-Mex Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. the operator of a rening and smelting facility in Torron a 100% subsidiary of Peoles Milling or milled ore A general term used to describe the process in which the ore is crushed and ground and subjected to physical or chemical treatment to extract the valuable metals to a concentrate or nished product Minera Juanicipio, S. A. fide C. V. A company jointly held by Fresnillo plc 56% interest and MAG Silver Corporation 44% interest Minera Penmont S. fide R. L. A company jointly held by Fresnillo plc 56% interest and Newmont USA Limited 44% interest deC. V. Mineralisation Any mass of host rock in which minerals of potential commercial value occur mt Million tonnes Ore Material that contains one or more minerals, at least one of which can be mined and treated profitably under economic conditions deemed to be reasonable Ore body A continuous well-dened mass of material of sufficient mineral content to make extraction economically feasible Ore grade The classication or value of ore Ounce Troy ounce oz Troy ounce Payable Silver The amount of silver in ounces contained in concentrates from Peoles Sabinas mine Peoles Industrias Peoles, S. A.
B. fide C. V. Peoles Group Peoles and its subsidiary undertakings Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 223 Pre-feasibility study A preliminary study undertaken to determine if it would be worthwhile to proceed to the feasibility study stage, whichdenes the technical and economic viability of a project to support the search for project nancing Primary silver producer A company generating over 50% of its revenue from silver production Prospect A mineral deposit with insufficient data available on the mineralisation to determine if it is economically recoverable, butwarranting further investigation Reserves The economically mineable portions of mineral resources, which are sub-divided into two categories of increasing confidence: probable reserves relate to indicated mineral resources: and proven reserves relate to measured mineralresources Resources A concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, quality and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction: mineral resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into inferred, indicated and measured categories Scoping study A preliminary assessment based on measured, indicated, or inferred mineral resources, or a combination of any of these: includes disclosure of forecasted mine production rates that may contain capital costs required to develop and sustain the mining operation, as well as operating costs and projected cash ows Shaft An opening cut downwards from the surface for transporting personnel, equipment, supplies, ore and waste Shotcrete Concrete or mortar conveyed through a hose and pneumatically projected at high velocity onto any type or shape of surface, including vertical or overhead areas: shotcrete undergoes placement and compaction at the same time due to the force with which it is projected from the nozzle Silverstream Contract A series of the 12 agreements between Comercializadora fide Metales Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. and Peoles pursuant to which the Fresnillo Group has the right to receive all proceeds for the Payable Silver from the Peoles-owned Sabinas polymetallic mine in Zacatecas, Mexico.
Smelting A high temperature pyrometallurgical operation conducted in a furnace, in which the valuable metal is collected to a molten matte or dor phase and separated from the gangue components that accumulate in a less dense molten slagphase Stope Underground void created by mining STPS Secretara del Trabajo y Previsin Social, Secretariat of Labour and Social Welfare Strike Direction of line formed by the intersection of strata surfaces with the horizontal plane, always perpendicular to the dipdirection Tailings dam A dammed reservoir to which the slurry is transported, where the solids settle and the supernatant liquid may bewithdrawn Tonne or t Metric tonne 1,000 kilograms tpd Tonnes per day tpy Tonnes per year Treatment charges Fees payable by mines to smelters for processing concentrates
