1AB Shareholder information Financial calendar 2013 American Depositary Receipts Ordinary shares quoted ex-dividend 10 April 2013 GKN has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR facility 2012 final dividend record date 12 April 2013 in the US, with each ADR representing one GKN ordinary share.
GKNs Final date for receipt of DRIP mandates 26 April 2013 ADRs are traded on the US over-the-counter OTC market under the Annual General Meeting 2 May 2013 symbol GKNLY.
The ADR facility is managed by The Bank of New York 2012 final dividend payable 20 May 2013 Mellon.
Dividend payments are generally taxable and will be distributed to ADR Annual General Meeting holders in US dollars by The Bank of New York Mellon.
The Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday, 2 May 2013 at the Cavendish Conference Centre, 22 Duchess Mews, London W1G 9DT, Any queries relating to GKNs ADR facility should be directed to: commencing at 2.00 pm.
The notice of meeting, together with an The Bank of New York Mellon explanation of the resolutions to be considered at the meeting, is PO Box 358516 contained within the AGM circular.
Pittsburgh GKN website and share price information PA 15252-8516 Information on GKN, including this and prior years annual reports, half USA year reports, results announcements and presentations together with Tel: 1 201 680 6825 the GKN share price, is available on our website at www.
From the US, toll free: 1 888 BNY ADRS Shareholding enquiries and information GKNs register of members is maintained by Equiniti who act as our Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
If you have any questions about your shareholding or you Electronic communications require any other guidance you can contact Equiniti as follows: As an alternative to receiving documents in hard copy, shareholders can Equiniti elect to be notified by email as soon as shareholder documents such as Aspect House our annual report and notice of meeting are published.
This notification Spencer Road includes details of where you can view or download the documents on Lancing our website.
Shareholders who wish to register for email notification West Sussex can do so via Equinitis website www.
BN99 6DA Capital gains tax Tel: 0871 384 2962 A capital gains tax CGT liability may arise when you dispose of an asset 44 121 415 7039 from outside the UK e. g. shares which is worth more when you sell it than when you acquired it.
Correspondence should refer to GKN and include your full name, address and, if available, the 8 or 11 digit reference number which can be found on Over the years the capital structure of GKN plc has changed.
Events that your GKN share certificate, dividend stationery or proxy card.
may need to be considered when calculating any CGT liability in relation to our shares are set out in the following paragraphs.
A range of shareholder information is available online at Equinitis website www.
Here you can also view information on 2001 demerger of the industrial services businesses your shareholding and obtain forms that you may need to manage your The market values of a GKN ordinary share and a Brambles Industries plc shareholding, such as a change of address form or a stock transfer form.
Brambles ordinary share on 7 August 2001 the first day of trading of Brambles shares to be used to allocate the base cost of GKN ordinary Share dealing service shares acquired since 31 March 1982 are: GKN ordinary shares 282.5p GKN shares can be traded via the internet or by phone through 43.943224% and Brambles ordinary shares 360.375p 56.056776%.
Shareview Dealing, a service provided by Equiniti Financial Services Ltd. For further details, visit www.
co. uk dealing or call Equiniti 2000 B share issue on 08456 037 037.
Equiniti Financial Services Ltd is authorised and The market values of a GKN ordinary share and a GKN B share on 30 regulated by the UK Financial Services Authority.
The registered details May 2000 the first day of trading of B shares to be used to allocate of the provider are available from the above number.
the base cost of GKN ordinary shares acquired since 31 March 1982 are: GKN ordinary shares 914.5p 98.736774% and GKN B shares 11.7p A telephone dealing service is also available through Stocktrade.
further details telephone 0845 601 0995 44 131 240 0414 from outside the UK and quote reference Low Co139.
1GF 2 base values The adjusted 31 March 1982 base value of one GKN ordinary share held GKN does not endorse or recommend any particular share dealing immediately before the 2009 capital reorganisation and rights issue service.
The value of shares can fall and you may get back less than you was 45.501p.
The adjusted base value immediately after the capital invest: if you are unsure as to the suitability of an investment you reorganisation and rights issue was 47.955p.
This information is provided primarily for the purpose of individual Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP shareholders resident in the UK when calculating their personal tax GKN offers a DRIP which enables shareholders to reinvest their cash liability.
Shareholders who are in any doubt as to their tax position or dividends to buy additional GKN shares.
If you would like more who may be subject to tax in a jurisdiction other than the UK should information about the DRIP or would like to apply online, please go to seek professional advice.
Neither GKN plc nor our registrar can advise Equiniti's website www.
co. uk or call the shareholder helpline on CGT matters.
Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday, excluding UK bank holidays.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
uk Pages Doing Regulated Law Alerts form.
shtml: unsolicited telephone calls concerning their investment in GKN.
These and calls are from overseas based organisations who offer to buy GKN shares for considerably more than the current market price.
In some if the calls persist, hang up.
cases the caller has suggested that there is currently a takeover offer for GKN.
There is no such offer and we suspect that the calls are bogus.
To reduce the risk of becoming a victim of fraud you should: Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited investment Ensure all your certificates are stored in a safe place, or hold your advice, offers to buy shares or offers of free company reports.
shares electronically in CREST electronic settlement system for UK Operations, commonly known as boiler rooms, are targeting UK and Irish securities via a nominee.
shareholders and callers can be very persistent and extremely Reduce the number of cold calls you receive by registering with the persuasive.
We are aware that they attempt to persuade individuals to Telephone Preference Service on 0845 070 0707 or by visiting provide email addresses or other personal information: shareholders www.
Alternatively you can also register by writing are strongly advised not to provide any such details.
to Telephone Preference Service, DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, The Financial Services Authority FSA provides the following guidance London, W1W 8SS.
should you be contacted in this manner: Keep all correspondence containing your shareholder reference obtain the name of the person calling and the organisation they number in a safe place.
represent: Shred all unwanted correspondence.
check that they are properly authorised by the Financial Services Inform Equiniti as soon as possible if you change your address.
If Authority by checking the FSA register of regulated firms at you receive a letter from Equiniti regarding a change of address and www.
do: have not recently moved house, please contact them immediately.
call the organisation back to verify their identity using the You may be a victim of identity theft.
telephone number listed for them on the FSA register: Know when dividends will be paid.
You can request that dividends search the FSA list of unauthorised firms and individuals be paid direct to your bank, reducing the risk of cheques being to avoid doing business with at intercepted or lost in the post.
If you change your bank account, www.
uk pages Doing Regulated Law Alerts overseas.
inform Equiniti of the details of your new account.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm you will not be eligible to Consider getting independent professional advice before making receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation any investment decision, particularly if the type of investment is Scheme: unfamiliar to you.
