GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts !
Independent auditors report to the.
members of GKN plc We have audited the Company financial statements of GKN plc for the Matters on which we are required to report by exception year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Balance Sheet and We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from Practice.
branches not visited by us: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the set out on page 76, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of accounting records and returns: or the Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are on the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law not made: or and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those we have not received all the information and explanations we standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards require for our audit.
Other matter This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of GKN the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 plc for the year ended 31 December 2012. of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that for and on behalf of  LLP the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the Birmingham accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances 25 February 2013 and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors report for the financial year Notes a The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the responsibility of the for which the Company financial statements are prepared is Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of consistent with the Company financial statements.
these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
