244 GSK Annual Report 2012 Shareholder information US shareholders Information reporting and backup withholding This summary only applies to a shareholder who is a citizen or Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or ADR, resident of the USA or a domestic corporation or a person that is paid within the USA or through certain US-related financial otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis in intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be respect of the shares or ADR that holds shares or ADR as capital subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a corporation assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer identication hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that number and certies that no loss of exemption has occurred.
is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
Non-US holders generally are not subject to information reporting or backup withholding, but may be required to provide a certication The summary also does not address the tax treatment of holders of their non-US status in connection with payments received.
Any that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt amounts withheld will be allowed as a refund or credit against a entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, holders US federal income tax liability provided the required persons that hold shares or ADR as part of an integrated investment information is furnished to the IRS.
including a straddle comprised of a share or ADR and one or more other positions, and persons that own directly or indirectly Estate and gift taxes 10% or more of the voting stock of the company.
Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not Taxation of dividends generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign source Stamp duty dividend income for US tax purposes.
It is not eligible for the UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, dividend received deduction allowed to US corporations.
Dividends be payable on any transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or on ADR are payable in US dollars: dividends on shares are payable in depository at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration pounds Sterling.
Dividends paid in pounds Sterling will be included provided if transferred on sale, or their value if transferred for in income in the US dollar amount calculated by reference to the no consideration.
exchange rate on the day the dividends are received by the holder.
Subject to certain exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to an individual eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a transfer an ADR.
No UK stamp duty should be payable on the maximum rate of 23.8% in respect of qualied dividends.
transfer of an ADR provided that any instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all times outside the UK.
Any stamp duty Taxation of capital gains on the transfer of an ADR would be payable at a rate of 0.5% of Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, but the consideration for the transfer.
Any sale of the underlying shares will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or other would, subject to certain exceptions, result in liability to UK stamp disposal of shares or ADR.
Such gains will be long-term capital gains duty or, as the case may be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%.
subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual holders if the shares or ADR were held for more than one year.
At 28 February 2013, BNY Nominees Limited held 816,909,301 Ordinary Shares representing 16.65% of the issued share capital excluding Treasury shares held at that date.
At 28 February 2013, the number of holders of shares in the USA was 1,075 with holdings of 1,191,611 shares, and the number of registered holders of ADS was 28,804 with holdings of 408,454,650 ADS.
Certain of these shares and ADS were held by brokers or other nominees.
As a result, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the USA is not representative of the number of beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial holders.
