2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 243 s they have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of Tax information for shareholders internal control over financial reporting, to the external auditors and the ARC, all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax in the design or operation of internal controls over financial consequences for holders of shares and ADR who are citizens of the reporting which are reasonably likely to affect adversely the UK or the USA is set out below.
It is not a complete analysis of all companys ability to record, process, summarise and report the possible tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale financial information, and any fraud regardless of materiality of these securities.
It is intended only as a general guide.
Holders involving persons that have a significant role in the companys are advised to consult their advisers with respect to the tax internal control over financial reporting.
consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of their shares or ADR and the consequences under state and local tax laws in the The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision and USA and the implications of the current UK US tax conventions.
with the participation of its management, including the CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups US holders of ADR generally will be treated as the owners of the disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2012. underlying shares for the purposes of the current USA UK double taxation conventions relating to income and gains Income Tax There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system Convention, estate and gift taxes Estate and Gift Tax Convention, of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of and for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls amended the Code.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of UK shareholders achieving their control objectives.
This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that holds The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certications and shares as capital assets.
report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures in March 2013, following which the certicates Taxation of dividends will be led with the SEC as part of the Groups Form 20-F. UK resident shareholders will generally be subject to UK income tax on the full amount of dividends paid, grossed up for the amount of Section 404: Managements annual report on internal a tax credit.
The tax credit may be set against the individuals income control over financial reporting tax liability in respect of the gross dividend, but is not repayable to In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbanesshareholders with a tax liability of less than the associated tax credit.
Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect For the tax year 2010-11 and subsequent tax years, an additional of the companys internal control over financial reporting as rate of income tax on dividends was imposed for taxpayers whose dened in Rules 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the US Securities income is above 150,000.
UK resident shareholders that are Exchange Act of 1934 : corporation taxpayers should note that dividends are generally entitled to exemption from corporation tax.
s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
Taxation of capital gains Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal reporting and the preparation of financial statements for of shares or ADR.
For disposals by individuals and subject to the external purposes in accordance with IFRS availability of any exemption or relief such as the annual exempt amount, a taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or s management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of ADR will be taxed at 28% if, after all allowable deductions, such internal control over financial reporting based on the framework, shareholders taxable income for the tax year exceeds the basic rate Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee income tax limit.
In other cases, a taxable capital gain accruing on of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission a disposal of shares or ADR may be taxed at 18% or 28% or at a s there have been no changes in the Groups internal control over combination of both rates.
Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to financial reporting during 2012 that have materially affected, or an indexation allowance which applies to reduce capital gains to the are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Groups internal extent that such gains arise due to ination.
Indexation allowance control over financial reporting may reduce a chargeable gain but will not create an allowable loss.
s management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control Inheritance tax over financial reporting as at 31 December 2012 and its conclusion will be led as part of the Groups Form 20-F, and Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the transfer of shares or ADR.
Tax may be charged on the amount by  LLP, which has audited the consolidated which the value of the shareholders estate is reduced as a result financial statements of the Group for the year ended of any transfer by way of gift or other disposal at less than full 31 December 2012, has also assessed the effectiveness of the market value.
If such a gift or other disposal were subject to both Groups internal control over financial reporting under Auditing UK inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax, the Estate and Gift Standard No.
5 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Tax Convention would generally provide for tax paid in the USA Board United States.
Their audit report will be led with the to be credited against tax payable in the UK.
Stamp duty UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of shares at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer.
