2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 241 If an actual conict arises post-authorisation, the Board may choose Directors to exclude the Director from receipt of the relevant information and Our Directors powers are determined by UK legislation and our participation in the debate, or suspend the Director from the Board, Articles of Association, which are available on our website.
The or, as a last resort, require the Director to resign.
Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the members.
The Nominations Committee reviewed the register of potential The Directors may exercise all the companys powers provided that conict authorisations in October 2012 and reported to the Board the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate that any such that the conicts had been appropriately authorised and that the powers must be exercised by the members.
process for authorisation continues to operate effectively.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors Independent advice are contained in our Articles.
They provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or resolution of the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal a Director appointed in this way retires at the first AGM following and or financial advice at the companys expense.
There is an agreed his or her appointment.
procedure, which is set out on our website, to enable them to do so.
Our Articles also provide that Directors should normally be subject indemnification of Directors to re-election at the AGM at intervals of three years or annually if they have held ofce for a continuous period of nine years or more.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as dened in the However, the Board agreed in 2011 that all Directors, who wish to Companies Act 2006 are in force for the benefit of Directors and continue as members of the Board, should seek re-election annually former Directors who held ofce during 2012 and up to the signing in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Members of the Annual Report.
may remove a Director by passing an ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given, or by passing a special resolution.
Change of control and essential contracts A Director may automatically cease to be a Director if: We do not have contracts or other arrangements which individually s he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her are fundamental to the ability of the business to operate effectively, creditors generally nor is the company party to any material agreements that would take effect, be altered, or terminate upon a change of control s he or she ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies following a takeover bid.
Act or the Articles We do not have agreements with any Director that would provide s he or she is suffering from mental or physical ill health compensation for loss of ofce or employment resulting from a s he or she has missed Directors meetings for a continuous takeover, except that provisions of the companys share plans may period of six months without permission and the Board cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a resolves that he or she shall cease to be a Director takeover.
Details of the termination provisions in the companys framework for contracts for Executive Directors are given on s he or she is prohibited from being a Director by law page 125. s he or she resigns Annual General Meeting 2013 s he or she offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer Wednesday, 1 May 2013 s all other Directors being at least three in number require him or her to resign.
The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE Directors conicts of interest The AGM is the companys principal forum for communication All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid with private shareholders.
In addition to the formal business, there a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect will be a presentation by the CEO on the performance of the conict of interest or possible conict with the company.
The duty Group and its future development.
There will be an opportunity applies, in particular, to the exploitation of any property, information for questions to be asked to the Board.
Chairmen of the Boards or opportunity whether or not the company could take advantage Committees will take questions relating to those Committees.
Our Articles provide a general power for the Board to authorise such conicts.
Investors holding shares through a nominee service should arrange with that nominee service to be appointed as a proxy in respect of The Nominations Committee has been authorised by the Board their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
to grant and periodically, but in any event annually, to review any potential or actual conict authorisations.
Directors are not ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy counted in the quorum for the authorisation of their own actual from BNY Mellon Depositary Receipts.
This will enable them to or potential conicts.
Authorisations granted are recorded by attend and vote on the business to be transacted.
ADR holders the Company Secretary in a register and are noted by the Board may instruct BNY Mellon Depositary Receipts as to the way in at its next meeting.
which the shares represented by their ADR should be voted by completing and returning the voting card provided by the bank.
On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing the Company Secretary of any new actual or potential conicts that Documents on display may arise or if there are any changes in circumstances that may affect an authorisation previously given.
Even when provided with The Articles of Association of the company and other documents authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her statutory referred to in this Annual Report are available for inspection at the duty to promote the success of the company.
companys registered ofce and on our website and will be made available for inspection at the AGM.
