242 GSK Annual Report 2012 Shareholder information Donations to political organisations and political Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 expenditure Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the USA, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
SarbanesWith effect from 1 January 2009, to ensure a consistent approach Oxley is a wide-ranging piece of legislation concerned largely with to political contributions across the Group, we introduced a global financial reporting and corporate governance.
policy to stop voluntarily all corporate political contributions.
As recommended by the SEC, the company has established a In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2012, the Group Disclosure Committee.
The Committee reports to the CEO, the CFO did not make any political donations to EU or non-EU organisations.
and to the Audit & Risk Committee.
It is chaired by the Company Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance Secretary and the members consist of senior managers from finance, with the Federal Election Campaign Act in the USA, we continue legal, corporate communications and investor relations.
to support an employee-operated Political Action Committee External legal counsel, the external auditors and internal experts PAC that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible are invited to attend its meetings periodically.
It has responsibility GSK employees.
for considering the materiality of information and, on a timely basis, The PAC is not controlled by GSK.
Decisions on the amounts and determining the disclosure of that information.
It has responsibility recipients of contributions are made by participating employees for the timely ling of reports with the SEC and the formal review exercising their legal right to pool their resources and make political of the Annual Report and Form 20-F.
In 2012, the Committee met contributions, which are subject to strict limitations.
of US$565,630 US$612,500 in 2011 was donated to political Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a organisations by the GSK employee PAC.
statement as to whether a member of our Audit & Risk Committee At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the company ARC is an audit committee financial expert as dened by Sarbanesto make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU Oxley.
Such a statement for each of the relevant members of the political expenditure, under the provisions of the Political Parties, ARC Stacey Cartwright, Judy Lewent and Tom fide Swaan is Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to 100,000 each year.
included in each of their biographies on pages 90 and 91.
Additional This authority has since been renewed annually.
The Companies Act disclosure requirements arise under section 302 and section 404 2006 requires companies to continue to obtain shareholder approval of Sarbanes-Oxley in respect of disclosure controls and procedures before they can make donations to EU political organisations or and internal control over financial reporting.
Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial However, we do not make and do not intend to make donations reports to political parties or independent election candidates, nor do we make any donations to EU political organisations or incur EU Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and the political expenditure.
CFO to complete formal certications, conrming that: The denitions of political donations, political expenditure and s they have each reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F political organisations used in the legislation are very wide.
In s based on their knowledge, the Annual Report and Form 20-F particular, the denition of EU political organisations may extend contains no material misstatements or omissions to bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law reform, the representation of the business community and special interest s based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other groups such as those concerned with the environment, which the financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the company and its subsidiaries might wish to support.
As a result, financial condition, results of operations and cash ows as of the the denitions may cover legitimate business activities not in the dates, and for the periods, presented in the Annual Report and ordinary sense considered to be political donations or political Form 20-F expenditure.
s they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure Such activities are not designed to support any political party or controls and procedures that ensure that material information is independent election candidate.
The authority which the Board made known to them, and have evaluated the effectiveness of has sought annually is a precautionary measure to ensure that these controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results of the company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently breach the such evaluation being contained in the Annual Report and legislation.
Form 20-F s they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal US law and regulation control over financial reporting that provides reasonable A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to the assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the company because our shares are quoted on the New York Stock preparation of financial statements for external purposes in Exchange NYSE in the form of ADS.
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles s they have disclosed in the Annual Report and Form 20-F any NYSE rules changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK period covered by the Annual Report and Form 20-F that have corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the USA, materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, provided that we explain any significant variations.
This explanation the companys internal control over financial reporting, and is contained in our Form 20-F ling, which can be accessed from the Securities and Exchange Commissions SEC EDGAR database or via our website.
NYSE rules that came into effect in 2005 require us to le annual and interim written afrmations concerning the Audit & Risk Committee and our statement on significant differences in corporate governance.
