Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN notes to tHe finAnCiAl stAtements 1.
ACCoUntinG poliCies corporate information Statement of compliance The Glencore Group Glencore is a leading integrated marketer The accounting policies adopted are in accordance with: and producer of natural resources, with worldwide activities International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interin the marketing of metals and minerals, energy products and pretations as adopted by the European Union EU effective agricultural products and the production, refinement, processas of 31December 2012: and ing, storage and transport of these products.
Glencore operates IFRS and interpretations as issued by the International on a global scale, marketing and distributing physical commodAccounting Standards Board IASB effective as of 31Decemities sourced from third party producers and own production ber 2012. to industrial consumers, such as those in the automotive, steel, power generation, oil and food processing industries.
Glencore Basis of preparation also provides financing, logistics and other services to produThe financial statements are prepared under the historical cost cers and consumers of commodities.
Glencores long expericonvention except for the revaluation to fair value of certain ence as a commodity merchant has allowed it to develop and financial assets, liabilities and marketing inventories and have build upon its expertise in the commodities which it markets been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors have and cultivate long-term relationships with a broad supplier and made this assessment after consideration of the Groups budgcustomer base across diverse industries and in multiple geoeted cash flows and related assumptions, which incorporate graphic regions.
Glencores marketing activities are supported the acquired operations of Viterra Inc. see note24, including by investments in industrial assets operating in Glencores core appropriate stress testing thereof, key risks and uncertaincommodities.
ties, undrawn debt facilities, debt maturity review, the likely impact on the Group of the proposed merger with Xstrata These consolidated financial statements were authorised for plc see Note 28 and in accordance with the Going Conissue in accordance with a Directors resolution on 22March2013.
cern and Liquidity Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 published by the Financial Reporting Council.
Further listing Restructuring of the Group information on Glencores business activities, cash flows, liquidOn 24May 2011, Glencore International plc the Company ity and performance are set out in the Business review and its was admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital and commenced trading on the London Stock Exchanges premium financial risks are detailed in note25.
listed market and on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on 25May 2011 via a secondary listing the Listing.
The Company is All amounts are expressed in millions of United States Dollars, incorporated in Jersey, domiciled in Switzerland, and is the unless other wise stated, consistent with the predominant funcultimate parent company of Glencore and owner of 100% of tional currency of Glencores operations.
the issued share capital of Glencore International AG, following a restructuring of the ownership interests in Glencore InternaUnder Article 105 11 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 the tional AG immediately prior to admission the Restructuring directors of a holding company need not prepare separate acsee note15.
The Companys registered office is at Queensway counts i. e. company only accounts if consolidated accounts House, Hilgrove Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 1ES.
for the company are prepared, unless required to do so by the members of the company by ordinary resolution.
The members The following accounting treatment was applied to account for of the Company have not passed a resolution requiring separate the Restructuring in 2011: accounts and, in the Directors opinion, the Company meets the definition of a holding company.
As permitted by the law, the the consolidated assets and liabilities of the subsidiary Directors have elected not to prepare separate accounts.
Glencore International AG were recognised and measured at the pre-Restructuring carrying amounts, without restatement changes in accounting policies and comparability to fair value: and The following relevant amendments to the existing standards the retained earnings and other equity balances recognised and interpretations were adopted as of 1January 2012: in the consolidated statement of financial position reflect the Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: consolidated retained earnings and other equity balances of Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of UnderlyGlencore International AG, as at 24May 2011, immediately ing Assets.
prior to the Restructuring, and the results of the period from 1 January 2011 to 24 May 2011, the date of the RestructurThe adoption of these revised standards and interpretations ing, are those of Glencore International AG as the Company did not have a material impact on the recognition, measurewas not active prior to the Restructuring.
Subsequent to the ment or disclosure of reported amounts.
Restructuring, the equity structure reflects the applicable movements in equity of Glencore International plc, including the equity instruments issued to effect the Restructuring and the Listing.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 115 115 Financial StatementS At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Amendments to IAS 1 following standards and interpretations applicable to Glencore Glencore will adopt the amendments to IAS 1 on 1Januwere issued but not yet effective: ary2013 with retrospective application.
The amendments to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IAS 1 will not impact Glencores financial statement balances IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements however they will impact the presentation within the Statement IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements of Comprehensive Income as Glencore will classify components IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities of other comprehensive income based on whether they may IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement eventually be recycled into income e. g. currency translation IAS 19 Employee Benefits 2011 adjustments versus those items that will never be recycled into IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 2011 income e. g. actuarial gains and losses on pension plans.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other ComIFRIC 20 prehensive Income Glencore will adopt IFRIC 20 on 1January 2013 with retrospecAmendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and tive application.
IFRIC 20 provides a model for accounting for Financial Liabilities costs associated with the removal of waste during the producAmendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting Financial tion phase of a surface mine, including guidance on the apporAssets and Financial Liabilities tionment of the costs incurred for obtaining a current and future IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface benefit and how capitalised costs are depreciated.
Mine Principles of consolidation The Directors are currently evaluating the impact these new The consolidated financial statements of Glencore include the standards and interpretations will have on the financial stateaccounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
A subsidiary is ments of Glencore.
An outline of the significant impacts identian entity that is ultimately controlled by the Company.
Control fied to date is set out below.
is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Control is IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 the Consolidation Standards usually assumed where Glencore ultimately owns or controls Glencore will adopt the Consolidation Standards on 1Janumore than 50% of the voting rights, unless evidence exists to ary2013 with retrospective application.
IFRS 10 provides a single the contrary.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed basis for consolidation with a new definition of control based on of during the year are consolidated from the effective date of having the power to direct the relevant activities of the investee.
acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as approIFRS 11 impacts the accounting for joint arrangements, defined priate.
All intercompany balances, transactions and unrealised as investments or arrangements which are subject to joint conprofits are eliminated.
trol through contractual agreed sharing of control between two or more parties.
A joint arrangement is classified as either a joint Non controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified sepaoperation or a joint venture, and the option to proportionately rately from Glencores equity and are initially measured either consolidate joint ventures has been removed, consistent with at fair value or at the non controlling interests proportionate current Group policy under which joint ventures are accounted share of the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
for using the equity method.
IFRS 12 combines the disclosure Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non controlrequirements previously covered by existing standards and ling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recogincludes additional disclosure requirements.
To date, Glencore nition plus the non controlling interests share of subsequent has not identified any material changes in the accounting that changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to is currently being applied to the Groups subsidiaries, investnon controlling interests even if this results in the non controlling ments or joint arrangements as a result of the Consolidation interests having a deficit balance.
Changes in Glencores interests in subsidiaries that do not result IAS 19 2011 in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions with Glencore will adopt the amendments to IAS 19 on 1January2013 any difference between the amount by which the non controlwith modified retrospective application.
The amendments ling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the considerarequire all actuarial gains and losses to be recognised immetion paid or received being recognised directly in equity and diately in other comprehensive income which differs from attributed to equity holders of Glencore.
Glencores current policy which applies the corridor method and require the expected return on plan assets recognised in investments in associates, jointly controlled entities and joint the statement of income to be calculated based on the rate venture operations used to discount the defined benefit obligation.
Upon adopAssociates and jointly controlled entities together Associates tion, Glencore will recognise $164million of unrecognised actuin which Glencore exercises significant influence or joint control arial losses as at 1January 2012, increasing the post retirement are accounted for using the equity method.
Significant influbenefits provision Note 21 with a corresponding adjustment to ence is the power to participate in the financial and operating shareholders equity and associated deferred tax impact.
policy decisions of the investee but is not control over those policies.
Significant influence is presumed if Glencore holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights, unless evidence exists to the contrary.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing 116 | 116 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN of control over an economic entity where strategic and or key non current assets held for sale and disposal groups operating decisions require unanimous decision making.
Non current assets and assets and liabilities included in disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount Equity accounting involves Glencore recording its share of the will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather Associates net income and equity.
Glencores interest in an than through continuing use, they are available for immediate Associate is initially recorded at cost and is subsequently disposal and the sale is highly probable.
Non current assets adjusted for Glencores share of changes in net assets of the held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount Associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investor fair value less costs to sell.
Where Glencore transacts with an Associate, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencores Revenue recognition interest in that Associate.
Revenue is recognised when the seller has transferred to the buyer all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the Changes in Glencores interests in Associates are accounted for assets sold.
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes and as a gain or loss on disposal with any difference between the is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or amount by which the carrying value of the Associate is adjusted receivable to the extent that it is probable that economic benand the fair value of the consideration received being recogefits will flow to Glencore and the revenues and costs can be nised directly in the statement of income.
In most instances sales revenue is recognised when the product is delivered to the destination specified by the Where Glencore undertakes activities under joint venture opcustomer, which is typically the vessel on which it is shipped, the eration or asset arrangements, Glencore reports such interests destination port or the customers premises.
using the proportionate consolidation method.
Glencores share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenses and cash flows For certain commodities, the sales price is determined on a of jointly controlled operations or asset arrangements are conprovisional basis at the date of sale as the final selling price is solidated with the equivalent items in the consolidated financial subject to movements in market prices up to the date of final statements on a line by line basis.
pricing, normally ranging from 30 to 90 days after initial booking.
Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised based Business combinations on the estimated fair value of the total consideration receivable.
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for The revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within proviusing the acquisition method of accounting, whereby the idensionally priced sales arrangements has the character of a comtifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable modity derivative.
Accordingly, the fair value of the final sales net assets are measured on the basis of fair value at the date price adjustment is re-estimated continuously and changes in of acquisition.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in the fair value are recognised as an adjustment to revenue.
In all casstatement of income as incurred.
es, fair value is estimated by reference to forward market prices.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, Glencores Interest and dividend income is recognised when the right to previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured receive payment has been established, it is probable that the to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date Glencore economic benefits will flow to Glencore and the amount of attains control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recogincome can be measured reliably.
Interest income is accrued on nised in the statement of income.
a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the applicable effective interest rate.
Where the fair value of consideration transferred for a business combination exceeds the fair values attributable to Glencores Foreign currency translation share of the identifiable net assets, the difference is treated Glencores reporting currency and the functional currency of as purchased goodwill, which is not amortised but is reviewed the majority of its operations is the U. S. Dollar as this is assessed annually for impairment and when there is an indication of to be the principal currency of the economic environment in impairment.
Any impairment identified is immediately recogwhich they operate.
nised in the statement of income.
If the fair value attributable to Glencores share of the identifiable net assets exceeds the Foreign currency transactions consideration transferred, the difference is immediately recogTransactions in foreign currencies are converted into the funcnised in the statement of income.
tional currency of each entity using the exchange rate prevailing at the transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases outstanding at year end are converted at year end rates.
The of interests in Associates.
Any goodwill arising from such purresulting exchange differences are recorded in the consolidatchases is included within the carrying amount of the invested statement of income.
ment in Associates, but not amortised thereafter.
Any excess of Glencores share of the net fair value of the Associates identifiable net assets over the cost of the investment is included in the statement of income in the period of the purchase.
The main operating and finance subsidiaries and investments of Glencore are listed in note32.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 117 117 Financial StatementS Translation of financial statements Cash-settled share-based payments For the purposes of consolidation, assets and liabilities of group For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is initially reccompanies whose functional currency is in a currency other than ognised at fair value based on the estimated number of awards the U. S. Dollar are translated into U. S. Dollars using year end that are expected to vest, adjusting for market and non market exchange rates, while their statements of income are translatbased performance conditions.
Subsequently, at each reported using average rates of exchange for the year.
Goodwill and ing period until the liability is settled, the liability is remeasured fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of a foreign to fair value with any changes in fair value recognised in the operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign statement of income.
operation and are translated at the closing rate.
Translation adjustments are included as a separate component of shareincome taxes holders equity and have no statement of income impact to the Income taxes consist of current and deferred income taxes.
extent that no disposal of the foreign operation has occurred.
Current taxes represent income taxes expected to be payable based on enacted or substantively enacted tax rates at the Borrowing costs period end and expected current taxable income, and any Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred except where they adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred relate to the financing of construction or development of qualitaxes are recognised for temporary differences between the fying assets in which case they are capitalised up to the date carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statewhen the qualifying asset is ready for its intended use.
ments and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable income, using enacted or substantively enacted Retirement benefits income tax rates which will be effective at the time of reversal Glencore operates various pension schemes in accordance of the underlying temporary difference.
Deferred tax assets and with local requirements and practices of the respective coununused tax losses are only recognised to the extent that their tries.
The annual costs for defined contribution plans that are recoverability is probable.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at funded by payments to separate trustee administered funds or reporting period end and amended to the extent that it is no insurance companies equal the contributions that are required longer probable that the related benefit will be realised.
To the under the plans and are accounted for as an expense.
Glencore extent that a deferred tax asset not previously recognised fulfils uses the projected unit credit actuarial method to determine the criteria for recognition, an asset is recognised.
the present value of its defined benefit obligations and the related current service cost and, where applicable, past service Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate cost.
to income taxes levied by the same authority and Glencore has both the right and the intention to settle its current tax assets Actuarial gains and losses are accounted for using the corridor and liabilities on a net or simultaneous basis.
Under this method, to the extent that any cumulative certain temporary differences is not recognised principally with unrecognised actuarial gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater respect to the initial recognition of an asset or liability other of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the than those arising in a business combination or in a manner fair value of plan assets, that excess is recognised in income that initially impacted accounting or taxable profit and temover the expected average remaining working lives of the porary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and employees participating in the plan.
Past service cost is recogassociates to the extent that Glencore can control the timing of nised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable the vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight line basis over temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
the average period until the benefits become vested.
Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such Share-based payments as extraction rights that, in general, are not eligible for income Equity-settled share-based payments tax allowances.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value of the awards based on the market value of the shares at Royalties, extraction taxes and other levies taxes are treated the grant date.
Fair value excludes the effect of non marketas taxation arrangements when they have the characteristics based vesting conditions.
The fair value is charged to the stateof an income tax including being imposed and determined ment of income and credited to retained earnings on a straightin accordance with regulations established by the respective line basis over the period the estimated number of awards are governments taxation authority.
Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or At each balance sheet date, Glencore revises its estimate of the income in the statement of income, except when they relate number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of to items that are recognised outside the statement of income the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
The impact whether in other comprehensive income or directly in equity of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised or where they arise from the initial accounting for a business in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the combination.
revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to retained earnings.
118 | 118 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN exploration and evaluation expenditure The major categories of property, plant and equipment and Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs inintangible assets are depreciated amortised on a UOP and or curred on the exploration and evaluation of potential mineral straight-line basis as follows: and petroleum resources and includes costs such as researching and analysing historical exploration data, exploratory drillBuildings 10 45 years ing, trenching, sampling and the costs of pre-feasibility studies.
Land not depreciated Exploration and evaluation expenditure for each area of interPlant and equipment 3 30 years UOP est, other than that acquired from the purchase of another comMineral rights and development costs UOP pany, is charged to the statement of income as incurred except Deferred mining costs UOP when the expenditure is expected to be recouped from future Port allocation rights 25 40 years exploitation or sale of the area of interest and it is planned to continue with active and significant operations in relation to the area, or at the reporting period end, the activity has not Assets under finance leases, where substantially all the risks reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the and rewards of ownership transfer to the Group as lessee, are existence of commercially recoverable reserves, in which case capitalised and amortised over their expected useful lives on the expenditure is capitalised.
Purchased exploration and evalthe same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of uation assets are recognised at their fair value at acquisition.
All other leases are classified as operating leases, the expenditures for which, are charged against income Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is recorded over the accounting periods covered by the lease term.
as a component of mineral and petroleum rights in property, plant and equipment.
Biological assets Biological assets are carried at their fair value less estimated All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is moniselling costs.
Any changes in fair value less estimated selling tored for indications of impairment.
Where a potential impaircosts are included in the statement of income in the period in ment is indicated, an assessment is performed for each area of which they arise.
interest or at the cash generating unit level.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is not expected to be recovered it is Deferred stripping costs charged to the statement of income.
Stripping costs incurred in the development of a mine or pit before production commences are capitalised as part of the Development expenditure cost of constructing the mine or pit and subsequently amorWhen commercially recoverable reserves are determined and tised over the life of the mine or pit on a unit of production such development receives the appropriate approvals, capitalbasis.
Production stripping costs are deferred when the actual ised exploration and evaluation expenditure is transferred to stripping ratio incurred significantly exceeds the expected long construction in progress.
Upon completion of development term average stripping ratio and are subsequently amortised and commencement of production, capitalised development when the actual stripping ratio falls below the long term avercosts are transferred as required to either mineral and petroage stripping ratio.
Where the ore is expected to be evenly disleum rights or deferred mining costs and depreciated using the tributed, waste removal is expensed as incurred.
unit of production method UOP.
mineral and petroleum rights Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Mineral and petroleum reserves, resources and rights together Property, plant and equipment, port allocation rights and Mineral Rights which can be reasonably valued, are recognised intangible assets are stated at cost, being the fair value of the in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Mineral Rights consideration given to acquire or construct the asset, includfor which values cannot be reasonably determined are not recing directly attributable costs required to bring the asset to the ognised.
Exploitable Mineral Rights are amortised using the location or to a condition necessary for operation and the direct UOP over the commercially recoverable reserves and, in cercost of dismantling and removing the asset, less accumulated tain circumstances, other mineral resources.
Mineral resources depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Intangiare included in amortisation calculations where there is a high ble assets include goodwill, future warehousing fees and tradedegree of confidence that they will be extracted in an economic marks.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their estimatRestoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning ed residual value over the estimated useful life of the specific Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs arising asset concerned, or the estimated remaining life of the associfrom the installation of plant and other site preparation work, ated mine, field or lease.
Depreciation commences when the discounted to their net present value, are provided for and asset is available for use.
Identifiable intangible assets with a capitalised at the time such an obligation arises.
The costs are finite life are amortised on a straight-line basis and or UOP bacharged to the statement of income over the life of the operasis over their expected useful life.
tion through depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the discount on the provision.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 119 119 Financial StatementS Costs for restoration of subsequent site disturbance, which is Production inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realcreated on an ongoing basis during production, are provided isable value.
Cost is determined using the first in first out FIFO for at their net present values and charged to the statement of or the weighted average method and comprises material costs, income as extraction progresses.
labour costs and allocated production related overhead costs.
Financing and storage costs related to inventory are expensed Other investments as incurred.
Equity investments, other than investments in Associates, are recorded at fair value unless such fair value is not reliably fidecash and cash equivalents terminable in which case they are carried at cost.
Changes in Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held at bank, cash fair value are recorded in the statement of income unless they in hand and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity are classified as available for sale, in which case fair value moveof three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets ments are recognised in other comprehensive income and are approximates their fair value.
subsequently recognised in the statement of income when realised by sale or redemption, or when a reduction in fair value is Financial instruments judged to be a significant or prolonged decline.
Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-toimpairment maturity investments or available for sale financial assets Glencore conducts, at least annually, an internal review of asdepending upon the purpose for which the financial assets set values which is used as a source of information to assess were acquired.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair for any indications of impairment.
Formal impairment tests are value on the trade date, including, in the case of instruments carried out, at least annually, for cash generating units containnot recorded at fair value through profit or loss, directly attribing goodwill and for all other non current assets when events or utable transaction costs.
Subsequently, financial assets are carchanges in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not ried at fair value other investments, derivatives and marketable be recoverable.
secur ities or amortised cost less impairment accounts receivable and advances and loans.
Financial liabilities other than A formal impairment test involves determining whether the carderivatives are initially recognised at fair value of consideration rying amounts are in excess of their recoverable amounts.
An received net of transaction costs as appropriate and subseassets recoverable amount is determined as the higher of its quently carried at amortised cost.
fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Such reviews are undertaken on an asset-by-asset basis, except where assets do convertible bonds not generate cash flows independent of other assets, in which At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component case the review is undertaken at the cash generating unit level.
is determined by discounting the contractual future cash flows using a market rate for a similar non convertible instrument.
The If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable liability component is recorded as a liability on an amortised amount, an impairment loss is recorded in the income statement cost basis using the effective interest method.
The equity comto reflect the asset at the lower amount.
ponent is recognised as the difference between the fair value of the proceeds as a whole and the fair value of the liability comAn impairment loss is reversed in the statement of income if ponent and it is not subsequently remeasured.
On conversion, there is a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverthe liability is reclassified to equity and no gain or loss is recogable amount since the prior impairment loss was recognised.
The nised in the statement of income and upon expiry of the convercarrying amount is increased to the recoverable amount but not sion rights, any remaining equity portion will be transferred to beyond the carrying amount net of depreciation or amortisation retained earnings.
which would have arisen if the prior impairment loss had not been recognised.
Goodwill impairments and impairments of available Derivatives and hedging activities for sale equity investments are not subsequently reversed.
Derivative instruments, which include physical contracts to sell or purchase commodities that do not meet the own use exempProvisions tion, are initially recognised at fair value when Glencore beProvisions are recognised when Glencore has a present obligacomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument tion, as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at the end of of resources embodying economic benefits that can be reliably each reporting period.
Fair values are determined using quoted estimated will be required to settle the liability.
market prices, dealer price quotations or using models and other valuation techniques, the key inputs for which include current inventories market and contractual prices for the underlying instrument, The majority of marketing inventories are valued at fair value time to expiry, yield curves, volatility of the underlying instruless costs to sell with the remainder valued at the lower of cost ment and counterparty risk.
Unrealised gains and losses from changes in fair value are reported in cost of goods sold.
Gains and losses on derivative instruments for which hedge accounting is not applied, other than the revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales, are recognised in cost of goods sold.
120 | 120 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Those derivatives qualifying and designated as hedges are Valuation of derivative instruments Note 26 either i a Fair Value Hedge of the change in fair value of a Derivative instruments are carried at fair value and Glencore recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitevaluates the quality and reliability of the assumptions and data ment, or ii a Cash Flow Hedge of the change in cashflows to used to measure fair value in the three hierarchy levels, Level 1, be received or paid relating to a recognised asset or liability or 2 and 3, as prescribed by IFRS 7.
Fair values are determined in a highly probable transaction.
the following ways: externally verified via comparison to quoted market prices in active markets Level 1 : by using models with A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Fair externally verifiable inputs Level 2 : or by using alternative proValue Hedge is reflected together with the change in the fair cedures such as comparison to comparable instruments and value of the hedged item in the statement of income.
or using models with unobservable market inputs requiring Glencore to make market based assumptions Level 3.
A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Cash Flow Hedge is initially recognised as a cash flow hedge reserve Depreciation and amortisation of mineral and petroleum rights, in shareholders equity.
The deferred amount is then released project development costs and plant and equipment Note 7 to the statement of income in the same periods during which Mineral and petroleum rights, project development costs and the hedged transaction affects the statement of income.
certain plant and equipment are depreciated amortised using Hedge ineffectiveness is recorded in the statement of income UOP.
The calculation of the UOP rate of depreciation amortisawhen it occurs.
tion, and therefore the annual charge to operations, can fluctuate from initial estimates.
This could generally result when there When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge are significant changes in any of the factors or assumptions used no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulain estimating mineral or petroleum reserves, notably changes in tive gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in sharethe geology of the reserves and assumptions used in determinholders equity and is recognised in the statement of income ing the economic feasibility of the reserves.
Such changes in when the committed or forecast transaction is ultimately recreserves could similarly impact the useful lives of assets depreognised in the statement of income.
However, if a forecast or ciated on a straight line basis, where those lives are limited to committed transaction is no longer expected to occur, the the life of the project, which in turn is limited to the life of the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is immediproven and probable mineral or petroleum reserves.
Estimates ately transferred to the statement of income.
of proven and probable reserves are prepared by experts in extraction, geology and reserve determination.
Assessments of A derivative may be embedded in a host contract.
Such comUOP rates against the estimated reserve and resource base and binations are known as hybrid instruments and at the date of the operating and development plan are performed regularly.
issuance, the embedded derivative is separated from the host contract and accounted for as a stand alone derivative if the Impairments Notes 5, 7, 8 and 9 criteria for separation are met.
The host contract is accounted Investments in Associates and other investments, advances and for in accordance with its relevant accounting policy.
loans and property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in critical accounting policies, key judgments and estimates circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be fully The preparation of the consolidated financial statements rerecoverable or at least annually for goodwill and other indefiquires management to make estimates and assumptions that nite life intangible assets.
If an assets recoverable amount is affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as well as less than the assets carrying amount, an impairment loss is recthe disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of ognised.
Future cash flow estimates which are used to calculate the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues the assets fair value are based on expectations about future and expenses during the reporting period.
operations primarily comprising estimates about production and sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves and resourcThe estimates and associated assumptions are based on hises, operating, rehabilitation and restoration costs and capital torical experience and other factors that are considered to be expenditures.
Changes in such estimates could impact recoverrelevant.
Actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
able values of these assets.
Estimates are reviewed regularly by management.
Glencore has identified the following areas as being critical to understanding Glencores financial position as they require Provisions Note 21 management to make complex and or subjective judgments The amount recognised as a provision, including tax, legal, resand estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain: toration and rehabilitation, contractual and other exposures or obligations, is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the related liability, including any related interest charges, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
The Group assesses its liabilities and contingencies based upon the best information available, relevant tax laws and other appropriate requirements.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 121 121 Financial StatementS Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs Note 21 A provision for future restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs requires estimates and assumptions to be made around the relevant regulatory framework, the magnitude of the possible disturbance and the timing, extent and costs of the required closure and rehabilitation activities.
To the extent that the actual future costs differ from these estimates, adjustments will be recorded and the statement of income could be impacted.
The provisions including the estimates and assumptions contained therein are reviewed regularly by management.
Recognition of deferred tax assets Note 6 Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is considered probable that those assets will be recoverable.
This involves an assessment of when those deferred tax assets are likely to reverse, and a judgement as to whether or not there will be sufficient taxable income available to offset the tax assets when they do reverse.
These judgements are subject to risk and uncertainty and hence, to the extent assumptions regarding future profitability change, there can be an increase or decrease in the amounts recognised in income in the period in which the change occurs.
The recoverability of deferred tax assets including the estimates and assumptions contained therein are reviewed regularly by management.
Fair value measurements Notes 9, 11, 18, 24, 25 and 26 In addition to recognising derivative instruments at fair value, as discussed above, an assessment of fair value of assets and liabilities is also required in accounting for other transactions, most notably, business combinations and disclosures related to fair values of marketing inventories, financial assets and liabilities.
In such instances, fair value measurements are estimated based on the amounts for which the assets and liabilities could be exchanged at the relevant transaction date or reporting period end, and are therefore not necessarily reflective of the likely cashflow upon actual settlements.
Where fair value measurements cannot be derived from publicly available information, they are estimated using models and other valuation methods.
To the extent possible, the a ssumptions and inputs used take into account externally verifiable inputs.
However, such information is by nature subject to uncertainty, particularly where comparable market based transactions rarely exist.
122 | 122 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 2. seGment infoRmAtion Glencore is organised and operates on a worldwide basis in three core business segments metals and minerals, energy products and agricultural products, with each business segment responsible for the marketing, sourcing, hedging, logistics and industrial investment activities of their respective products and reflecting the structure used by Glencores management to assess the performance of Glencore.
The business segments contributions to the Group are primarily derived from the net margin or premium earned from physical marketing activities net sale and purchase of physical commodities, provision of marketing and related value-add services and the margin earned from industrial asset activities net resulting from the sale of physical commodities over the cost of production and or cost of sales and comprise the following underlying key commodities: Metals and minerals: Zinc, copper, lead, alumina, aluminium, ferro alloys, nickel, cobalt and iron ore, including smelting, refining, mining, processing and storage related operations of the relevant commodities: Energy products: Crude oil, oil products, steam coal and metallurgical coal supported by investments in coal mining and oil production operations, ports, vessels and storage facilities: Agriculture products: Wheat, corn, canola, barley, rice, oil seeds, meals, edible oils, biofuels, cotton and sugar supported by investments in farming, storage, handling, processing and port facilities.
Corporate and other: statement of income amounts represent Glencores share of income related to Xstrata and other unallocated Group related expenses including variable pool bonus accrual.
Statement of financial position amounts represent Group related balances.
The financial performance of the segments is principally evaluated with reference to Adjusted EBIT EBITDA which is the net result of revenue less cost of goods sold and selling and administrative expenses plus share of income from associates and jointly controlled entities and dividend income as disclosed on the face of the consolidated statement of income.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies.
Glencore accounts for inter-segment sales and transfers where applicable as if the sales or transfers were to third parties, i. e. at arms length commercial terms.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 123 123 Financial StatementS 2012 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total Revenue from third parties 56674 136937 20825 0 214436 marketing activities Adjusted EBIT 1363 435 371 39 2130 Depreciation and amortisation 16 59 23 0 98 adjusted eBitDa 1379 494 394 39 2228 industrial activities Adjusted EBIT 708 594 10 1048 2340 Depreciation and amortisation 917 389 69 0 1375 adjusted eBitDa 1625 983 59 1048 3715 total adjusted eBitDa 3004 1477 453 1009 5943 Depreciation and amortisation 933 448 92 0 1473 total adjusted eBit 2071 1029 361 1009 4470 Significant items Other expense net 1214 Share of Associates exceptional items 875 4 Mark to market loss on certain natural gas contracts 123 5 Unrealised intergroup profit elimination adjustments 84 Interest expense net 970 Loss on sale of investments 128 Income tax credit 76 income for the year 1152 Significant items of income and expense which, due to their financial impacts, nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, have been separated for internal reporting and analysis of Glencores results.
Share of Associates exceptional items comprise Glencores share of exceptional charges booked directly by Xstrata relating mainly to various impairment charges including that associated with its platinum investments and operations in South Africa and nickel operations in Australia which were impacted by the challenging market environments and costs incurred by Xstrata in connection with the proposed merger with Glencore see note28.
4 Represents movements in fair value of certain fixed price forward natural gas purchase contracts entered into to hedge the price risk of this cost exposure in our alumina production activities.
These contracts were initially concluded in 2008 with mark to market movements accounted for in equity cash flow hedge reserves.
Consistent with Glencores current policy not to hedge future operating expenditures there are no such contracts covering periods beyond 2012.
5 Represents the required adjustment to eliminate unrealised profit or losses arising on intergroup transactions.
For Glencore, such adjustments arise on the sale of product, in the ordinary course of business, from its Industrial operations to its Marketing arm and management assesses segment performance prior to any such adjustments, as if the sales were to third parties.
124 | 124 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 2012 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total Current assets 20024 18256 9520 649 48449 Current liabilities 9500 13941 3746 137 27324 allocatable current capital employed 10524 4315 5774 512 21125 Property, plant and equipment 14134 5347 3757 0 23238 Intangible assets 180 1098 1386 0 2664 Investments in Associates and other investments 2881 799 461 16215 20356 Non current advances and loans 921 2688 149 0 3758 allocatable non current capital employed 18116 9932 5753 16215 50016 1 Other assets 7072 7072 2 Other liabilities 43913 43913 total net assets 28640 14247 11527 20114 34300 Additions to non current assets 5761 3311 4262 0 13334 1 Other assets include deferred tax assets, marketable securities, cash and cash equivalents and assets held for sale.
2 Other liabilities include borrowings, non current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, non current provisions, Viterra asset acquirer loans and liabilities held for sale.
2011 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total Revenue from third parties 51984 117065 17103 0 186152 marketing activities Adjusted EBIT 1242 697 8 20 1911 Depreciation and amortisation 5 27 0 11 43 adjusted eBitDa 1247 724 8 9 1954 industrial activities Adjusted EBIT 1357 375 39 1794 3487 Depreciation and amortisation 765 196 62 0 1023 adjusted eBitDa 2122 571 23 1794 4510 total adjusted eBitDa 3369 1295 15 1785 6464 Depreciation and amortisation 770 223 62 11 1066 total adjusted eBit 2599 1072 47 1774 5398 Significant items Other expense net 511 Share of Associates exceptional items 45 Interest expense net 847 Gain on sale of investments 9 Income tax credit 264 income for the year 4268 Significant items of income and expense which, due to their financial impacts, nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, have been separated for internal reporting and analysis of Glencores results.
Share of Associates exceptional items comprise Glencores share of exceptional charges booked directly by Xstrata $25million and Century $20million.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 125 125 Financial StatementS 2011 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total Current assets 18506 17605 5110 3165 44386 Current liabilities 7676 11312 1589 2675 23252 allocatable current capital employed 10830 6293 3521 490 21134 Property, plant and equipment 9367 4210 1062 0 14639 Intangible assets 169 29 12 0 210 Investments in Associates and other investments 2950 1060 206 16189 20405 Non current advances and loans 1280 2723 138 0 4141 allocatable non current capital employed 13766 8022 1418 16189 39395 1 Other assets 2384 2384 2 Other liabilities 30578 30578 total net assets 24596 14315 4939 11515 32335 Additions to non current assets 1508 1921 406 0 3835 1 Other assets include deferred tax assets, marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents.
2 Other liabilities include borrowings, non current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities and non current provisions.
Geographical information US$ million 2012 2011 1 Revenue from third parties The Americas 42295 45836 Europe 108904 70323 Asia 44274 47759 Africa 16910 20538 Oceania 2053 1696 214436 186152 2 non current assets The Americas 6918 4535 Europe 17707 17293 Asia 5652 5838 Africa 11255 4555 Oceania 3137 1486 44669 33707 1 Revenue by geographical destination is based on the country of incorporation of the sales counterparty however this may not necessarily be the country of the counterparts ultimate parent and or final destination of product.
Non current assets are non current operating assets other than other investments, advances and loans, and deferred tax assets.
3. loss GAin on sAle of investments net US$ million 2012 2011 Loss on sale on investment in associates net 133 10 Gain on sale of subsidiaries net 5 19 total 128 9 The net loss on sale of investments in 2012 comprised primarily an accounting dilution loss of $121million following Xstratas share issuance in March 2012, which saw Glencores effective ownership reduce from 34.5% to 34.2%.
126 | 126 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 4. otHeR expense net US$ million Notes 2012 2011 Changes in mark to market valuations on investments held for trading net 2 92 Changes in mark to market valuation of certain coal forward contracts 179 25 Changes in mark to market valuation of certain foreign currency forward contracts 65 0 Revaluation of previously held interest in newly acquired businesses 497 0 Acquisition related expenses 120 2 Impairments 5 1650 32 Phantom equity awards granted on Listing 18 109 58 Listing related expenses 0 286 Foreign exchange loss 4 5 Other 74 61 total 1214 511 T his item, if classified by function of expense would be recognised in cost of goods sold.
All other amounts in Other expense net are classified by function.
Includes $7million loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2011: $ nil million.
Together with foreign exchange gains losses and mark to market movements on investments held for trading, other expense net includes other significant items of income and expense which due to their non operational nature or expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them are reported separately from operating segment results.
Other expense net includes, but is not limited to, impairment charges, revaluation of previously held interests in business combinations, restructuring and closure costs.
changes in mark to market valuation of certain coal forward contracts Represents movements in fair value of certain fixed price forward coal sales contracts relating to Prodeco Groups Prodeco future production, into which it plans to physically deliver.
Following the legal reacquisition of Prodeco in March 2010, from an accounting perspective, these forward sales contracts could not technically be classified as own use or as cashflow hedges, which would have deferred the income statement effect until performance of the underlying future sale transactions.
As at year end, approximately 4.6million tonnes 2011: 8.4million tonnes of such coal had been sold forward at a fixed price in respect of quarterly periods to the end of 2013. changes in mark to market valuation of certain foreign currency forward contracts Represents the realised gain on the settlement of CAD 2.7billion forward foreign currency purchase contracts entered into to partially hedge foreign currency price risk associated with the Viterra transaction see note24.
Revaluation of previously held interest in newly acquired businesses In March 2012, Glencore purchased an additional 31.8% interest in Optimum Coal Holdings Limited Optimum and in April 2012, acquired an additional 20% interest in Mutanda Group Mutanda see note24.
At the date of the acquisitions, the previously held interests were revalued to their fair value and as a result, a $20million loss and $517million gain, respectively, were recognised.
acquisition related expenses Professional advisor and other costs relating mainly to the Viterra see note24 and Xstrata see note28 transactions.
listing related expenses Expenses incurred in connection with the Listing including the Restructuring and or change in the employee shareholder profit attribution model, rather than the costs incurred solely in relation to the issuance of the new primary equity see note15, comprising$91million of stamp duty costs, $42million of professional advisors costs and$ 153million of compensation related costs.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 127 127 Financial StatementS 5. impAiRments US$ million Notes 2012 2011 Available for sale instruments previously recognised in other comprehensive income 1181 0 Non current loans 10 213 0 Property, plant and equipment 210 6 Non current inventory and other 46 26 total impairments 1650 32 These items, if classified by function of expense would be recognised in cost of goods sold.
The impairment charges incurred during the year are allocated to the operating segments as follows: Metals and minerals $1,337 2011: $32million, Energy products $248million 2011: $nil million and Agricultural products $65million 2011: $nil million.
available for sale instruments Glencore accounts for its interest in United Company Rusal plc UC Rusal as an available for sale investment at fair value with mark to market movements recognised in other comprehensive income OCI.
IAS 39 requires an entity to assess whether the cumulative loss recognised in OCI is of a significant and prolonged nature and if so, it shall be reclassified from OCI to the statement of income.
As a result of the continuing challenging macro economic environment impacting the global aluminium market, UC Rusals share price has remained below Glencores acquisition fair value for what has now been determined to be of a prolonged nature and therefore, as at 31December 2012, $1.2billion of previously recognised negative fair value adjustments have been reclassified from OCI to the statement of income.
This reclassification had no impact on the balance sheet value which continues to be carried at fair value see note 9.
Property, plant and equipment During the regular assessment of whether there is an indication of an asset impairment or whether a previously recorded impairment may no longer be required as part of our regular portfolio review, the continuing challenging European biodiesel margin environment, the change in legal status of certain of our operations, particularly in Bolivia, and evaluation of below expectation exploration programs, resulted in impairment charges none of which were individually material of $110million, $35million and $65million being recognised in our Metals and minerals, Energy and Agricultural products segments respectively.
The recoverable amounts, where applicable, of the underlying assets were determined based on the fair value less costs to sell using discounted cash flow techniques.
6. inCome tAxes Income taxes consist of the following: US$ million 2012 2011 Current income tax expense 295 417 Deferred income tax credit 371 681 total tax credit 76 264 128 | 128 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN The effective Group tax rate is different from the statutory Swiss income tax rate applicable to the Company for the following reasons: US$ million 2012 2011 income before income tax and attribution 1076 4004 Less: Share of income from associates 367 1972 Parent companys and subsidiaries income before income tax and attribution 709 2032 Income tax expense calculated a the Swiss income tax rate 106 312 Effect of different tax rates from the standard Swiss income tax rate 233 102 Tax exempt income, net of non-deductible expenses and other permanent differences 50 14 Tax implications of restructuring, including deductions losses triggered 544 687 Effect of available tax losses not recognised, and other changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets 76 19 Effect of change in tax rate on deferred tax balances 4 2 Other 1 2 income credit 76 264 The 2012 credit amounting to $544million resulted primarily from recognition of crystallised tax benefits resulting in losses carried forward, following an internal reorganisation of our existing ownership interest in Xstrata.
All of the resulting tax losses have been brought to account as a deferred tax asset.
The 2011 tax benefit of $687million resulted from income tax deductions and losses arising in Switzerland and other countries following settlement of various profit participation plans.
$305million 2011: $381million of deferred tax assets related to future deductible amounts and tax losses from the settlement have not been brought to account.
The tax credit expense relating to components of other comprehensive income loss and share premium is as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 Cash flow hedges 0 2 Listing related expenses 0 21 income tax relating to components of other comprehensive loss and share premium 0 19 Recognised in other comprehensive income.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 129 129 Financial StatementS Deferred taxes as at 31December 2012 and 2011, are attributable to the items detailed in the table below: US$ million Notes 2012 2011 1 Deferred tax assets Tax losses carried forward 1345 892 Mark to market valuations 27 12 Other 90 135 total 1462 1039 1 Deferred tax liabilities Depreciation and amortisation 2606 1217 Mark to market valuations 29 19 Other 320 163 total 2955 1399 Deferred tax net 1493 360 Reconciliation of deferred tax net Opening balance 360 939 Recognised in income for the year 371 681 Recognised in other comprehensive loss and share premium 0 19 Business combination 24 1571 121 Disposal of subsidiaries 24 7 0 Other 60 0 closing balance 1493 360 1 Asset and liability positions in the same category reflect the impact of tax assets and liabilities arising in local tax jurisdictions that cannot be offset against tax assets and liabilities arising in other tax jurisdictions.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable.
As at 31December 2012, $1,816million 2011: $1,445million of deferred tax assets related to available loss carry forwards have been brought to account, of which $1,345million 2011: $892million are disclosed as deferred tax assets with the remaining balance being offset against deferred tax liabilities arising in the same respective entity.
$1,373million 2011: $889million $861million relating to tax losses and $28million relating to temporary differences of net deferred tax assets arise in entities that have been loss making for tax purposes in 2012 and or 2011.
In evaluating whether it is probable that taxable profits will be earned in future accounting periods, all available evidence was considered, including approved budgets, forecasts and business plans and, in certain cases, analysis of historical operating results.
These forecasts are consistent with those prepared and used internally for business planning and impairment testing purposes.
Following this evaluation, it was determined there would be sufficient taxable income generated to realise the benefit of the deferred tax assets.
130 | 130 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Available gross tax losses carried forward and deductible temporary differences, for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in the consolidated financial statements are detailed below and will expire as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 1 year 114 11 2 years 165 28 3 years 253 127 Thereafter 1786 956 Unlimited 590 978 total 2908 2100 As at 31December 2012, unremitted earnings of$ 19,952million 2011:$ 18,573million have been retained by subsidiaries and associates for reinvestment.
No provision is made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of such earnings.
7. pRopeRty, plAnt And eqUipment Land Plant Mineral and Deferred and and petroleum mining US$ million Notes buildings equipment rights costs Total Gross carrying amount: 1January 2012 1521 12045 4617 675 18858 Business combination 24 953 3429 3284 48 7714 Disposal of subsidiaries 24 0 301 7 0 308 Additions 92 2054 866 89 3101 Disposals 21 200 0 0 221 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 5 65 92 0 162 Other movements 69 2 6 69 8 31December 2012 2609 16964 8674 743 28990 accumulated depreciation and impairment: 1January 2012 323 2997 770 129 4219 Depreciation 87 1087 233 31 1438 Disposal of subsidiaries 24 0 29 0 0 29 Disposals 10 74 1 19 102 Impairments 5 0 151 59 0 210 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 0 4 5 0 9 Other movements 3 98 119 7 25 31December 2012 397 4030 1177 148 5752 net book value 31December 2012 2212 12934 7497 595 23238 | | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 131 131 Financial StatementS Land Plant Mineral and Deferred and and petroleum mining US$ million Notes buildings equipment rights costs Total Gross carrying amount: 1January 2011 1281 9187 4484 542 15494 Business combination 24 108 591 76 0 775 Additions 36 2411 416 148 3011 Disposals 17 431 0 2 450 Other movements 113 287 359 13 28 31December 2011 1521 12045 4617 675 18858 accumulated depreciation and impairment: 1January 2011 239 2556 548 63 3406 Depreciation 36 710 260 56 1062 Disposals 6 263 2 0 267 Impairments 5 7 15 0 10 32 Other movements 47 21 40 0 14 31December 2011 323 2997 770 129 4219 net book value 31December 2011 1198 9048 3847 546 14639 Plant and equipment includes expenditure for construction in progress of$ 2,294million 2011:$ 1,389million and a net book value of$ 281million 2011:$ 317million of obligations recognised under finance lease agreements.
Mineral and petroleum rights include expenditures for exploration and evaluation of$ 277million 2011:$ 306million and biological assets of $66million 2011: $3million.
Depreciation expenses included in cost of goods sold are$ 1,421million 2011:$ 1,049million and in selling and administrative expenses$ 17million 2011:$ 13million.
During 2012, $37million 2011:$44million of interest was capitalised within property, plant and equipment.
With the exception of project specific borrowings, the rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 4% 2011: 4%.
8. intAnGible Assets Port allocation US$ million Notes rights Goodwill Other Total cost: 1January 2012 0 169 45 214 Business combination 24 1182 1251 104 2537 Addition 21 0 33 54 Effect of foreign exchange differences 102 0 0 102 31December 2012 1101 1420 182 2703 accumulated amortisation and impairment: 1January 2012 0 0 4 4 Amortisation expense 16 0 19 35 31December 2012 16 0 23 39 net carrying amount 31December 2012 1085 1420 159 2664 Recognised in cost of goods sold.
132 | 132 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN US$ million Notes Goodwill Other Total cost: 1January 2011 0 0 0 Business combination 24 36 13 49 Reclassified from held for sale 133 32 165 31December 2011 169 45 214 accumulated amortisation and impairment: 1January 2011 0 0 0 Amortisation expense 0 4 4 31December 2011 0 4 4 net carrying amount 31December 2011 169 41 210 Recognised in cost of goods sold.
Port allocation rights Port allocation rights represent contractual entitlements to export certain amounts of coal on an annual basis from Richard Bay Coal Terminal in South Africa and have been recognised as part of the acquisitions of Optimum and Umcebo, see note24.
The rights are being amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated economic life of the port of 40 years.
impairment testing of goodwill For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill has been allocated to the CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination and which represent the level at which management will monitor and manage the goodwill.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment for all CGUs containing goodwill with exception of goodwill acquired in a business combination in the current year which is tested at the date of acquisition, and when there is an indicator that the goodwill may be impaired.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 Grain marketing business 1251 0 Metals warehousing business 133 133 Other 36 36 total 1420 169 Grain marketing business Goodwill of $1,251million has been recognised as part of the acquisition of Viterra, see note24.
The goodwill is primarily related to the Viterra grain marketing and merchandising business and is substantively attributable to synergies which are expected to arise in conjunction with the grain marketing divisions increased geographic coverage and scale of activities.
As at 31December2012, the purchase price allocation, including the allocation of the goodwill to CGUs, has not been finalised, as the acquisition completed close to year end.
Metals warehousing business Goodwill of$133million relates to the Pacorini metals warehousing business and is attributable to synergies which arise in conjunction with the metals marketing divisions expected increased activities.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the cash generating unit was compared with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount was determined by reference to the value in use which utilises pre-tax cash flow projections based on the approved financial budgets for 5 years which includes factors, such as inventory levels, volumes and operating costs key assumptions are based on past experience and, where available, observable market data, discounted to present value at a rate of 10%.
The cash flows beyond the 5 year period have been extrapolated using a declining growth rate of 10% per annum which is the projected long term reduction in average inventory levels for the warehousing business.
Glencore believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the CGU to exceed the recoverable amount.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 133 133 Financial StatementS Other goodwill Goodwill held by other CGUs is $36million 2011: $36million, representing less than 1% of net assets at 31December 2012 2011: less than 1%.
The goodwill has been allocated across a number of CGUs in the Energy products segment, with no CGU accounting for more than $30million of total goodwill.
This goodwill has been tested for impairment and concluded to be recoverable.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets primarily consist of trademarks, licences, software and future warehousing fees.
9. investments in AssoCiAtes And otHeR investments A list of the principal operating, finance and industrial subsidiaries and Associates and other investments is included in note32.
US$ million 2012 2011 Xstrata plc 16215 16187 Other listed Associates 888 1337 listed associates 17103 17524 Non listed Associates 1664 1334 investments in associates 18767 18858 listed associates As at 31December 2012, the fair value of listed Associates using published price quotations was$ 17,876million 2011:$ 16,157million.
Following the recognition of Glencores share of impairments booked by its Associates, Glencore completed a detailed assessment of the recoverable amount of investments where indicators of impairment were identified and concluded that the recoverable value supports the carrying value of these investments and that no further impairment is required.
During the year, Glencore acquired controlling interests in two companies which had been accounted for as Associates, Mutanda and Optimum.
Refer to note24 for further details.
US$ million 2012 2011 available for sale United Company Rusal UCR 840 842 840 842 Fair value through profit and loss Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
410 359 Nyrstar N. V. 78 105 Century Aluminum Company cash settled equity swaps 80 78 Jurong Aromatics Corporation Pte Ltd 55 55 Blackthorn Resources Ltd 34 8 Other 92 100 749 705 Other investments 1589 1547 134 | 134 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Summarised financial information in respect of Glencores Associates, reflecting 100% of the underlying Associates relevant figures, are set out below.
US$ million 2012 2011 Current assets 15979 12129 Non current assets 77226 69884 Current liabilities 10109 8919 Non current liabilities 32401 24620 net assets 50695 48474 Revenue 42647 39940 Net profit 1491 6194 The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of joint venture entities as at 31December 2012 was$22million 2011:$50million.
Glencores share of joint venture entities capital commitments amounts to$ 34million 2011:$ 301million.
AdvAnCes And loAns US$ million 2012 2011 Loans to Associates 347 840 Other non current receivables and loans 3411 3301 total 3758 4141 Loans to Associates generally bear interest at applicable floating market rates plus a premium.
The decrease in loans to Associates during the year is due to the acquisition of Mutanda see note24 which, at the time of acquisition, had outstanding loans to Glencore of $698million 2011: $653million.
Other non current receivables and loans comprise the following: US$ million 2012 2011 counterparty OAO Russneft Interest bearing loan at 7.75% per annum see note below 2080 2211 Atlas Petroleum International Limited Atlas 1 Interest bearing loans at LIBOR plus 3% 0 246 2 Secured marketing related financing arrangements 549 451 PT Bakrie & Brothers Tbk Interest bearing secured loans at LIBOR plus 9% 200 80 Funds deposited in respect of rehabilitation and restoration obligations 248 74 Other 334 239 total 3411 3301 1 Primarily relates to carried interest loans associated with the development of the Aseng oil project in Equatorial Guinea, where Atlas is one of the equity partners.
The operator of the field and project is Noble Energy, based in Houston.
The Aseng project commenced oil production in Q4 2011, and loans are being repaid from oil proceeds.
2 Various marketing related financing facilities, generally secured against certain assets and or payable from the future sale of production of the counterparty.
The weighted average interest rate of the loans is 10% and on average are to be repaid over a 3 year period.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 135 135 Financial StatementS Russneft loans In November 2012, as part of a comprehensive agreement between OAO Russneft Russneft, Glencore and Russnefts other major creditor, Sberbank, Glencore agreed to amend the terms of its $2,080million, 9% per annum loan.
The revised terms lower the interest rate to 7.75% interest per annum and extend the expected maturity of the loan from 2020 to 2024.
In exchange for this amendment, Glencore will receive additional annual payments of $50million until substantial repayments of the loan will then commence, once Russnefts debt reduces to certain thresholds and or existing debt is refinanced.
The loan is accounted for at amortised cost using the effective rate method with an effective interest rate of 8.4%.
The new carrying amount of the loan was required to be recalculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows under the revised terms using the loans original effective interest rate.
In estimating the expected cash flows to be received over the life of the loan, a comprehensive cash flow forecast was prepared utilising Russnefts current budget and strategic plan and an economic analysis of Russnefts oil fields prepared by an independent petroleum engineering firm.
The difference between the recalculated carrying value of $2,093million and the pre-amendment carrying value of $2,306million resulted in an income statement charge of $213million see note5.
11. inventoRies US$ million 2012 2011 Production inventories 3153 3150 Marketing inventories 17529 13979 total 20682 17129 Production inventories consist of materials, spare parts and work in process.
Marketing inventories are saleable commodities held primarily by the marketing entities as well as finished goods and certain other readily saleable materials held by the industrial assets.
Marketing inventories of$16,027million 2011:$13,785million are carried at fair value less costs to sell.
Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its marketing inventories.
In each case, the inventory has not been derecognised as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
The proceeds received are recognised as current borrowings see note19.
As at 31December 2012, the total amount of inventory secured under such facilities was$ 2,946million 2011:$ 1,834million.
The proceeds received and recognised as current borrowings were$ 2,248million 2011:$ 1,670million.
ACCoUnts ReCeivAble US$ million 2012 2011 1 Trade receivables 18386 15903 1 Trade advances and deposits 3270 3022 1 Associated companies 1031 643 Other receivables 2195 2327 total 24882 21895 1 Collectively referred to as receivables presented net of allowance for doubtful debts.
The average credit period on sales of goods is 29 days 2011: 28 days.
136 | 136 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN As at 31December 2012, 8% 2011: 8% of receivables were between 1 60 days overdue, and 5% 2011: 3% were greater than 60days overdue.
Such receivables, although contractually past their due dates, are not considered impaired as there has not been a significant change in credit quality of the relevant counterparty, and the amounts are still considered recoverable taking into account customary payment patterns and in many cases, offsetting accounts payable balances.
The movement in allowance for doubtful accounts is detailed in the table below: US$ million 2012 2011 Opening balance 129 155 Released during the year 7 28 Charged during the year 112 43 Utilised during the year 22 41 closing balance 212 129 Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its receivables.
In each case, the receivables have not been derecognised, as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
As at 31December 2012, the total amount of trade receivables secured was$4,398million 2011:$2,934million and proceeds received and classified as current borrowings amounted to$ 3,146million 2011:$ 2,265million.
CAsH And CAsH eqUivAlents US$ million 2012 2011 Bank and cash on hand 2496 981 Deposits and treasury bills 286 324 total 2782 1305 As at 31December 2012, $ 4million 2011:$ 80million was restricted.
As at 31December 2011, $47million was placed in escrow for the acquisition of Rosh Pinah see note24.
Assets And liAbilities Held foR sAle As part of Glencores acquisition of Viterra, Glencore entered into agreements with Agrium Inc Agrium and Richardson International Limited Richardson which provide for the back-to-back sale of certain operations of Viterra.
Upon closing, Agrium and Richardson advanced the agreed consideration for these operations amounting to CAD 1,775million $1,781million and CAD 796million $799million respectively the Asset Acquirer Loans.
Upon future closing of these divestitures, the relevant net assets will be transferred to Agrium and Richardson in satisfaction of the Asset Acquirer Loans advanced.
As a result of these agreed disposals, the corresponding assets of $2,790million and liabilities of $747million as at 31December2012 have been classified as held for sale.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 137 137 Financial StatementS 15. sHARe CApitAl And ReseRves Number of Share Share shares capital premium thousand US$ million US$ million authorised: 31December 2012 Ordinary shares with a par value of$0.01 each 50000000 issued and fully paid up: 1January 2011 Ordinary shares 3716495 37 0 Ordinary shares issued in exchange for HPPS and PPS profit participation obligations 1617268 16 13821 Ordinary shares issued in exchange for LTS and LTPPS profit participation obligations 666237 7 5694 Ordinary shares issued at Listing primary issuance 922714 9 7887 Share issue costs associated with the primary issuance 280 Tax on Listing related expenses 21 Dividends paid 346 31December 2011 Ordinary shares 6922714 69 26797 Ordinary shares issued on acquisition of an 18.91% interest in Kazzinc 176742 2 957 Dividends paid 1066 31December 2012 Ordinary shares 7099456 71 26688 Restructuring Prior to the Listing, Glencores articles of incorporation authorised the issuance of non voting profit participation certificates PPC with no nominal value to its employees enabling them to participate in four profit sharing arrangements: Hybrid Profit Participation Shareholders HPPS, Ordinary Profit Participation Shareholders PPS, Glencore L. T. E. Profit Participation Shareholders LTS and Long Term Profit Participation Shareholders LTPPS.
The profit sharing arrangements entitled the employees to a portion of Glencore shareholders funds accumulated during the period that such employees held the PPCs.
The PPCs attributed Glencore International AGs consolidated net income pro rata based on the 150,000 Class B shares issued as at 31December2010.
Immediately prior to the Listing, Glencore implemented a Restructuring whereby amounts owing to the then shareholder employees under the various active profit participation plans were settled in exchange for new ordinary shares and the ultimate ownership interests in Glencore International AG were assumed via Glencore International plc.
The accounting outcome of these transactions is outlined below: Settlement of the profit participation plans The accounting for the settlement of the four profit participation plans was similar, whereby the outstanding balances under each plan prior to Listing were exchanged for an equivalent number of ordinary shares at the Listing price of 530pence $8.56 per share.
The difference between the nominal and fair value of the new ordinary shares issued was recognised as a share premium.
listing On 24May 2011, Glencore International plc issued 922,713,511 ordinary shares which comprised 891,463,511 shares to institutional investors the International Offer at a price of 530pence $ 8.56 per share on the London Stock Exchange, and 31,250,000 shares to professional and retail investors in Hong Kong the Hong Kong Offer at a price of HK$ 66.53 $ 8.56 per ordinary share.
The gross proceeds raised were$7,896million and total transaction Restructuring and Listing and related expenses incurred were$ 566million.
$ 280million of the transaction costs were attributable to the issue of new primary equity and have been deducted against share premium while$ 286million were attributable to stamp duty and other expenses associated with the above noted Restructuring as well as an allocation of transaction costs that jointly related to the issuing of the new primary equity and the listing of the Company and as such have been charged to income during the year see note4.
Joint transaction costs were allocated based on the ratio of new shares issued, in relation to total shares outstanding.
Ordinary shares issued on acquisition of an 18.91% interest in Kazzinc In October 2012, Glencore completed the acquisition of an additional 18.91% interest in Kazzinc from Verny Investments, for a cash consideration of $400million and the issue of 176,742,520 new ordinary shares of the Company closing transaction date value of $959million, thereby increasing its ultimate ownership in Kazzinc to 69.61%.
138 | 138 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Acquiring an additional interest in a subsidiary is considered to be a transaction between owners rather than an acquisition of a business.
Therefore, this was accounted for as an equity transaction with the resulting difference of $506million between the change in the Kazzinc non-controlling interest and the consideration paid charged to equity as a reserve.
Other reserves Equity Net Translaportion Cash unreNet tion of Conflow alised ownership adjustvertible hedge gain changes in Other US$ million ment bonds reserve loss subsidiaries reserves Total at 1January 2011 1 89 263 25 134 10 272 Exchange gain on translation of foreign operations 53 0 0 0 0 0 53 Loss on cash flow hedges, net of tax 0 0 17 0 0 0 17 Loss on available for sale financial instruments 0 0 0 1206 0 0 1206 Cash flow hedges transferred to the statement of income, net of tax 0 0 6 0 0 0 6 Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 0 0 0 0 98 0 98 at 31December 2011 52 89 274 1181 232 10 1640 at 1January 2012 52 89 274 1181 232 10 1640 Exchange loss on translation of foreign operations 116 0 0 0 0 0 116 Loss on cash flow hedges, net of tax 0 0 93 0 0 0 93 Cash flow hedges transferred to the statement of income, net of tax 0 0 297 0 0 0 297 Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 0 0 0 0 474 0 474 Loss on available for sale financial instruments transferred to the statement of income, net of tax 0 0 0 1181 0 0 1181 Effect of foreign currency differences transferred to the statement of income 23 0 0 0 0 0 23 at 31December 2012 191 89 70 0 706 10 868 16. eARninGs peR sHARe US$ million Notes 2012 2011 Profit attributable to equity holders for basic earnings per share 1004 4048 Interest in respect of Convertible bonds 0 135 Profit attributable to equity holders for diluted earnings per share 1004 4183 Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share thousand 6961936 5657794 effect of dilution: Equity settled share-based payments 18 26847 22790 Convertible bonds 19 0 406738 Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share thousand 6988783 6087322 Basic earnings per share US$ 0.14 0.72 Diluted earnings per share US$ 0.14 0.69 In 2012, the convertible bonds have been anti-dilutive and therefore have been excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 139 139 Financial StatementS 17. dividends US$ million 2012 2011 Paid during the year: Final dividend for 2011 $ 0.10 per ordinary share 2010 $ nil per class B share 692 0 374 346 Interim dividend for 2012 $ 0.054 per ordinary share 2011 $ 0.05 per ordinary share total 1066 346 735 692 Proposed final dividend for 2012 $ 0.1035 per ordinary share 2011 $ 0.10 per ordinary share The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Dividends declared in respect of the year ended 31December 2012 will be paid on 7 June 2013.
The 2012 interim dividend was paid on 13September 2012.
18. sHARe-bAsed pAyments 2011 Phantom equity awards In April and May 2011 in connection with the Listing, 24,024,765 phantom equity awards were made to certain employees in lieu of interests in Glencores existing equity ownership schemes.
At grant date, each phantom equity award is equivalent to one ordinary share of Glencore.
The phantom equity awards vest on or before 31December 2013, subject to the continued employment of the award holder.
Phantom equity awards may be satisfied, at Glencores option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash with a value equal to the market value of the award at vesting, including dividends paid between Listing and vesting.
Glencore currently intends to settle these awards in shares.
The aggregate number of ordinary shares underlying the awards was 24,024,765.
The fair value of the awards at the issue date was $8.56 per award for an aggregate fair value of $206million determined by reference to the Listing price at the grant date.
As at 31December 2012, the number of shares underlying the awards was 20,141,592 2011: 22,789,924.
The total expense recognised in the period was $109million 2011: $58million.
2012 Deferred Bonus Plan Under the Glencore Deferred Bonus Plan DBP, the payment of a portion of a participants annual bonus is deferred for a period of one to two years as an award of either ordinary shares a Bonus Share Award or cash a Bonus Cash Award.
The awards are vested at grant date with no further service condition however they are subject to forfeiture for malus events.
In May 2012, awards were made under Glencores annual bonus arrangements.
Bonus Cash Awards amounted to $15million and will be paid on 30June 2013.
Bonus Share Awards equivalent to 3,710,652 ordinary shares will be settled on either 30June 2013 or 30June 2014.
The share price at the issue date of the Bonus Share Awards settling on 30June 2013 was $4.82 per award for an aggregate fair value of $9million and the share price at the issue date of the Bonus Share Awards settling on 30June 2014 was $5.40 per award for an aggregate fair value of $11million.
The Bonus Share Awards may be satisfied, at Glencores option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of the award at settling, including dividends paid between award and settling.
As at 31December 2012, the number of shares underlying the awards was 3,442,057 2011:nil.
The associated expense was recorded in the statement of income as part of the regular accrual for performance bonuses.
2012 Performance share plan Under the Glencore Performance Share Plan PSP, participants are awarded PSP awards which vest in annual tranches over a specified period, subject to continued employment and forfeiture for malus events.
At grant date, each PSP award is equivalent to one ordinary share of Glencore.
In 2012, 3,262,938 awards were granted that will vest in three equal tranches on 30June 2013, 30June 2014 and 30June 2015 respectively.
The fair value of the awards determined by reference to the market price of Glencores ordinary shares at grant date was $5.40 per award for an aggregate fair value of $18million.
The PSP awards may be satisfied, at Glencores option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of the award at vesting, including dividends paid between award and vesting.
As at 31December 2012, the number of shares underlying the awards was 3,262,938 2011: nil.
The expense recognised in the period was $2million 2011: $ nil million.
140 | 140 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 19. boRRowinGs US$ million Notes 2012 2011 non current borrowings 144A Notes 948 947 Xstrata secured bank loans 0 2688 Convertible bonds 2172 2152 Euro, Sterling and Swiss Franc bonds 7530 5490 Perpetual notes 348 347 Ordinary profit participation certificates 332 750 Committed syndicated revolving credit facilities 5881 5907 Viterra senior unsecured notes 24 592 0 Finance lease obligations 28 233 278 Other bank loans 992 1285 total non current borrowings 19028 19844 current borrowings Committed secured inventory receivables facilities 3702 2640 Uncommitted secured inventory receivables facilities 1692 1295 U. S. commercial paper 726 512 Xstrata secured bank loans 2696 0 Eurobonds 1061 0 Viterra acquisition financing facility 1503 0 Ordinary profit participation certificates 418 533 Finance lease obligations 28 48 39 1 Other bank loans 4652 3205 total current borrowings 16498 8224 Comprises various uncommitted bilateral bank credit facilities and other financings.
144a notes $ 950million 6% coupon Notes due April 2014.
The Notes are recognised at amortised cost at an effective interest rate of 6.15% per annum.
Xstrata secured bank loans In June 2011, Glencore refinanced the$ 2.8billion facilities with 2 year$ 2.7billion equivalent facilities.
The facilities have been accounted for as secured bank loans which bear interest at a rate of U. S. $ LIBOR plus 95 basis points per annum.
As at 31 December 2012, shares representing$ 5,397million 2011:$ 5,343million of the carrying value of Glencores investment in Xstrata were pledged as security.
convertible bonds $2,300million 5% coupon convertible bonds due December 2014.
The bonds are convertible at the option of the investors into 417,491,096 ordinary shares of Glencore International plc.
The bonds consist of a liability component and an equity component.
The fair values of the liability component $ 2,211million and the equity component $ 89million were determined, using the residual method, at issuance of the bonds.
The liability component is measured at amortised cost at an effective interest rate of 5.90% per annum.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 141 141 Financial StatementS euro, Sterling and Swiss Franc bonds The Group has issued bonds denominated in Euro, Sterling and Swiss Franc where upon issuance, the principal amounts and the future interest payments were swapped using instruments which qualify as cash flow hedges into their U. S. Dollar equivalent.
The details of amounts issued and outstanding are as follows: US$ fixed Initial US$ interest US$ million Maturity equivalent rate in % 2012 2011 Euro 850million 5.250% coupon bonds Oct 2013 0 1045 Euro 750million 7.125% coupon bonds April 2015 1200 6.86 982 944 Euro 1250million 5.250% coupon bonds March 2017 1708 6.07 1648 1623 Euro 1250million 4.125% coupon bonds April 2018 1667 4.46 1626 0 eurobonds 4575 4256 3612 GBP 650million 6.50% coupon bonds Feb 2019 1266 6.58 1045 996 GBP 500million 5.50% coupon bonds April 2022 800 5.50 837 0 Sterling bonds 2066 1882 996 CHF825million 3.625% coupon bonds April 2016 828 4.87 903 882 CHF450million 2.625% coupon bonds Dec 2018 492 4.33 489 0 Swiss Franc bonds 1320 1392 882 total non current 7961 7530 5490 Euro 850million 5.250% coupon bonds Oct 2013 1078 6.60 1061 0 total current 1078 1061 0 In April 2012, Glencore issued EUR1,250million $1,667million 4.125% interest bearing bonds due April 2018 and GBP 300million $480million 5.5% interest bearing bonds due April 2022.
In November 2012, Glencore issued a further GBP 200million $320million bonds under the same terms as the April issuance.
In July 2012, Glencore issued CHF450million $492million 2.625% interest bearing bonds due December 2018.
Perpetual notes $ 350million of 7.5% Perpetual bonds outstanding.
The bonds are callable at par every quarter starting October 2015.
Ordinary profit participation certificates Profit participation certificates bear interest at 6 month U. S. $ LIBOR, are repayable over 5 years with final payments due in 2016 and in the event of certain triggering events, which include any breach of a financial covenant, would be subordinated to unsecured lenders.
committed syndicated revolving credit facility In April 2012 Glencore signed new committed revolving credit facilities, which renewed existing revolving credit facilities.
Funding terms are essentially unchanged in comparison to the previous facilities.
The facilities comprise a $4,435million 14 month revolving credit facility with a borrowers 10 month term-out option and a 10 month extension option, that refinanced Glencores existing $ 3,535million 364-day revolving credit facility.
The facility has two tranches of $3,725million and $710million respectively.
In addition, the maturity of $8,030million of the existing $8,370million 3-year revolving credit facility has been extended for a further year to May 2015.
Viterra senior unsecured notes As part of the acquisition of Viterra, Glencore assumed $596million senior unsecured notes, of which $400million mature in August 2020 and CAD 200million $196million in February 2021.
The notes bear interest at 6.19% and 7.45% respectively.
142 | 142 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN committed secured inventory receivables facilities Borrowing US$ million Maturity base Interest 2012 2011 Metals inventory receivables facility Oct 2013 2220 U. S. $ LIBOR 120 bpa 2220 1700 Agricultural products inventory receivables facility Nov 2013 300 U. S. $ LIBOR 130 bpa 232 Jun Aug U. S. $ LIBOR EURIBOR Oil receivables facilities 2013 1250 105 to 115 bpa 1250 940 total 3770 3702 2640 U. S. commercial paper Glencore has in place a stand alone U. S. commercial paper program for$ 1,000million rated A2 and P2 respectively by S&Ps and Moodys rating agencies.
The notes issued under this program carry interest at floating market rates and mature not more than 270 days from the date of issue.
Viterra acquisition financing facility In June 2012, Glencore signed a $1.5billion multi-currency committed one year credit facility with a one year term-out option at Glencores discretion.
Funds drawn under the facility bear interest at U. S. $ LIBOR plus 200 basis points per annum.
20. defeRRed inCome Unfavourable US$ million Notes contract Prepayment Total 1January 2011 190 190 Utilised in the year 8 8 31December 2011 182 182 1January 2012 182 182 Assumed in business combination 24 688 0 688 Utilised in the year 72 19 91 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 62 0 62 31December 2012 554 163 717 Includes the current portion of $92million in respect of the unfavourable contract and $24million in respect of the prepayment.
Unfavourable contract Upon acquisition of Optimum in March 2012 see note24, Glencore recognised a liability of $688million related to an acquired contractual agreement to deliver 44million tonnes of coal over a period ending 31December 2018 at fixed prices lower than the prevailing market price for coal of equivalent quality.
This amount will be released to revenue as the underlying tonnes of coal are delivered to the buyer over the life of the contract at the rate consistent with the implied forward price curve at the time of the acquisition.
As at year end, approximately 39million tonnes of coal remain to be delivered.
Prepayment During 2006, Glencore entered into an agreement to deliver, depending on mine production, up to 4.75million ounces per year of silver, a by-product from its mining operations, for a period of 15 years at a fixed price for which Glencore received a partial upfront payment of$ 285million.
The outstanding balance represents the remaining portion of the upfront payment.
The upfront payment is released to revenue at a rate consistent with the implied forward price curve at the time of the transaction and the actual quantities delivered.
As at 31December 2012, 17.9million ounces 2011: 15million ounces have been delivered.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 143 143 Financial StatementS 21. pRovisions Post RehabilitaDemurrage retirement Employee tion Onerous and related US$ million Notes benefits entitlement costs contracts claims Other Total 1January 2011 60 98 379 93 61 200 891 Provision utilised in the year 1 17 14 89 10 64 195 Accretion in the year 0 0 24 0 0 0 24 Assumed in business combination 24 0 0 43 0 0 14 57 Additional provision in the year 2 35 142 0 23 72 274 31December 2011 61 116 574 4 74 222 1051 1January 2012 61 116 574 4 74 222 1051 Provision utilised in the year 1 2 41 4 60 80 188 Accretion in the year 0 0 33 0 0 0 33 Assumed in business combination 24 19 19 325 0 0 49 412 Additional provision in the year 14 14 83 0 0 170 281 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 0 0 23 0 0 0 23 31December 2012 93 147 951 0 14 361 1566 See note22.
2 O ther includes provisions in respect of mine concession obligations of$ 54million 2011:$ 52million, construction related contractual provisions of$ 79million 2011:$ 27million, export levies of$37million 2011:$45million and deferred purchase consideration of$ 8million 2011: $ 33 million.
Includes $ nil million 2011: $4million in respect of onerous contracts, $14million 2011: $74million in respect of demurrage and related claims and $48million 2011: $20million in respect of other disclosed as current.
employee entitlement The employee entitlement provision represents the value of governed employee entitlements due to employees upon their termination of employment.
The associated expenditure will occur in a pattern consistent with when employees choose to exercise their entitlements.
Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation provision represents the accrued cost required to provide adequate restoration and rehabilitation upon the completion of extraction activities.
These amounts will be settled when rehabilitation is undertaken, generally at the end of a projects life, which ranges from 2 to 50 years.
22. peRsonnel Costs And employee benefits Total personnel costs, which includes salaries, wages, social security, other personnel costs and share-based payments, incurred for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, were$ 2,013million and$ 1,723million, respectively.
Personnel costs related to consolidated industrial subsidiaries of$ 1,368 million 2011:$ 1,203 million are included in cost of goods sold.
Other personnel costs, including the 2012 deferred bonus and performance share plans, are included in selling and administrative expenses and the 2011 phantom equity awards are included in other expense.
The Company and certain subsidiaries sponsor various pension schemes in accordance with local regulations and practices.
Eligibility for participation in the various plans is either based on completion of a specified period of continuous service, or date of hire.
The plans provide for certain employee and employer contributions, ranging from 5% to 16% of annual salaries, depending on the employees years of service.
Among these schemes are defined contribution plans as well as defined benefit plans.
The main locations with defined benefit plans are Switzerland, the UK, Canada and the US.
Defined contribution plans Glencores contributions under these plans amounted to$ 28million in 2012 and$ 21million in 2011.
144 | 144 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Defined benefit plans The amounts recognised in the statement of income are as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 Current service cost 24 19 Interest cost 22 19 Expected return on plan assets 15 15 Net actuarial losses recognised in the year 15 13 Past service cost 5 2 Exchange differences 1 2 total 52 36 The actual return on plan assets amounted to a gain of$ 40million 2011: gain of$ 4million.
The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position are determined as follows: 2012 2011 US$ million Notes Present value of defined benefit obligations 617 513 Less: fair value of plan assets 347 284 Unrecognised actuarial losses 176 164 Restrictions of assets recognised 1 4 liability in the statement of financial position 21 93 61 Movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation is as follows: 2012 2011 US$ million Notes Opening defined benefit obligation 513 422 Current service cost 24 19 Interest cost 22 19 Past service cost 5 2 Benefits paid 15 26 Actuarial loss 32 67 Exchange differences on foreign plans 1 1 Business combination 21 19 0 Other movements 18 9 closing defined benefit obligation 617 513 Movement in the present value of the plan assets is as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 Opening fair value of plan assets 284 267 Expected return on plan assets 15 15 Contribution from the employer 24 26 Actuarial gain loss 17 20 Exchange differences on foreign plans 3 3 Other movements 10 7 closing fair value of plan assets 347 284 | | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 145 145 Financial StatementS The plan assets consist of the following: US$ million 2012 2011 Cash and short term investments 4 10 Fixed income 161 109 Equities 132 120 Other 50 45 total 347 284 The overall expected rate of return is a weighted average of the expected returns of the various categories of plan assets held.
Glencores assessment of the expected returns is based on historical return trends and analysts predictions of the market for the asset class in the next twelve months.
The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 2012 2011 Discount rate 36% 37% Expected return on plan assets 37% 38% Future salary increases 25% 25% Future pension increases 34% 34% Mortality assumptions are based on the latest available standard mortality tables for the individual countries concerned.
These tables imply expected future lifetimes in years for employees aged 65 as at the 31December 2012 of 18 to 24 for males 2011: 18 to 24 and 20 to 25 2011: 20 to 25 for females.
The assumptions for each country are reviewed each year and are adjusted where necessary to reflect changes in fund experience and actuarial recommendations.
The Group expects to make a contribution of$ 24million 2011:$ 26million to the defined benefit plans during the next financial year.
Summary historical information: Present value of defined benefit Fair value of US$ million obligation plan assets 2010 422 267 2009 363 232 2008 324 190 23.
ACCoUnts pAyAble US$ million 2012 2011 Trade payables 19890 14523 Trade advances from buyers 546 828 Associated companies 1552 1511 Other payables and accrued liabilities 1513 1274 total 23501 18136 146 | 146 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 24.
ACqUisition And disposAl of sUbsidiARies 2012 Acquisitions European US$ million Viterra Mutanda Optimum Rosh Pinah Manganese Other Total non current assets Property, plant and equipment 2505 3496 1311 231 72 259 7874 Intangible assets 102 0 1096 0 0 0 1198 Investments in Associates 76 0 0 1 0 0 77 Loans and advances 6 11 175 0 0 0 192 Deferred tax asset 1 0 0 0 5 0 6 2690 3507 2582 232 77 259 9347 current assets Inventories 1572 223 50 13 127 44 2029 Accounts receivable 1063 99 57 8 85 11 1323 Cash and cash equivalents 1097 38 25 8 16 11 1195 Assets held for sale 2677 0 0 0 0 0 2677 6409 360 132 29 228 66 7224 non controlling interest 0 807 460 28 0 28 1323 non current liabilities Non current borrowings 592 5 99 1 0 1 698 Other non current liabilities 0 6 9 0 0 0 15 Non current deferred income 0 0 591 0 0 0 591 Non current provisions 114 7 235 10 0 40 406 Deferred tax liabilities 279 882 335 56 0 25 1577 985 900 1269 67 0 66 3287 current liabilities Current borrowings 1222 0 6 0 2 0 1230 Accounts payable 1496 152 100 16 113 43 1920 Current deferred income 0 0 97 0 0 0 97 Current provision 6 0 0 0 0 0 6 Liabilities held for sale 461 0 0 0 0 0 461 3185 152 203 16 115 43 3714 total fair value of net assets acquired 4929 2008 782 150 190 188 8247 Goodwill arising on acquisition 1251 0 0 0 0 0 1251 Less: Amounts previously recognised through investments and loans 0 1528 381 0 0 51 1960 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 1097 38 25 8 16 11 1195 4 Acquisition related costs 120 net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 5083 442 376 142 174 126 6463 Less: Asset acquirer loans 2580 0 0 0 0 0 2580 net cash outflow 2503 442 376 142 174 126 3883 1 The fair values are provisional due to the complexity of the valuation process.
The finalisation of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired will be completed within 12 months of the acquisition.
There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for loans and advances and accounts receivable and their fair value.
3 The goodwill arising on acquisition is not deductible for tax purposes.
4 Includes $58million related to the Xstrata acquisition, see note28.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 147 147 Financial StatementS Viterra On 17December 2012, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in Viterra Inc. a leading global agricultural commodity business for a cash consideration of $6.2billion $3.6 billion net of asset acquirer loans.
As part of the acquisition, Glencore entered into agreements with Agrium and Richardson which provide for the on-sale of certain assets of Viterra.
Agrium has agreed to acquire assets which comprise a majority of Viterras retail agri-products business including its 34% interest in Canadian Fertilizer Limited CFL for CAD 1,775million $1,781million in cash, subject to any final specified purchase price adjustments such as payment for working capital and required regulatory approvals.
Richardson has agreed to acquire 23% of Viterras Canadian grain handling assets, certain agri-centres and certain processing assets in North America for CAD 796million $799million in cash, subject to any final specified purchase price adjustments such as payment for working capital.
Upon closing of the Viterra acquisition, Agrium and Richardson advanced the agreed consideration.
The businesses which they will acquire have been presented in single line items as assets and liabilities held for sale see note14.
Upon closing of these divestitures, the relevant net assets will be transferred to Agrium and Richardson and set off against the asset acquirer loans.
The acquisition of Viterra brings Glencore critical mass in the key grain markets of North America through Viterras substantial Canadian operations and greatly expands Glencores existing operations in Australia.
This acquisition is consistent with Glencores strategy to enhance its position as a leading participant in the global grain and oil seeds markets.
It has been accounted for as a business combination.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1January 2012, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $12,816million and an increase in attributable income of $264million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $5million and $898million to Glencores attributable income and revenue, respectively.
Glencore incurred acquisition related costs of $54million and a realised foreign currency gain of $65million on Canadian dollar hedges entered into in May in expectation of the acquisition both items included within other expense net, see note4.
Optimum In March 2012, Glencore acquired an additional 31.8% interest in Optimum, a South African coal mining company, for a total consideration of $401million thereby increasing its ultimate ownership in Optimum from 31.2% to 63.0% and enhancing its existing South African coal market presence.
Prior to acquisition, Glencore owned a 31.2% interest in Optimum which, in accordance with IFRS 3, at the date of acquisition was revalued to its fair value of $381million and as a result, a loss of $20million was recognised in other expense net see note4.
The acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination with the non controlling interest being measured at its percentage of net assets acquired.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1January 2012, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $196million and additional attributable income of $19million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $27million and $541million to Glencores attributable income and revenue, respectively.
mutanda In April 2012, Glencore concluded its agreement to acquire an additional 20% interest in Mutanda, a copper and cobalt mining company located in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for a total cash consideration of $480million equity of $420million and shareholder debt of $60million thereby increasing its ultimate ownership in Mutanda from 40% to 60% and enhancing its attributable copper production base.
Prior to acquisition, Glencore owned a 40% interest in Mutanda which, in accordance with IFRS 3, at the date of acquisition was revalued to its fair value of $837million and as a result, a gain of $517million was recognised in other expense net see note4.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1January 2012, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $236million and additional attributable income of $9million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $23million and $533million to Glencores attributable income and revenue, respectively.
In addition to the acquisition of the 20% interest in Mutanda noted above, Glencore concurrently entered into a put and call option arrangement, whereby Glencore has the right to acquire and the seller has the ability to force Glencore to acquire an additional 20% interest in Mutanda for a total cash consideration of $430million.
The put and call options are exercisable in the period between 15December 2013 and 31December 2013.
The present value of the put option $419million has been accounted for as an other financial liability with the corresponding amount recognised against non controlling interest.
148 | 148 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Rosh Pinah In June 2012, Glencore completed the acquisition of an 80.1% interest in Rosh Pinah, a Namibian zinc and lead mining operation, for a cash consideration of $150million increasing our zinc and lead production footprint.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1January 2012, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $78million and a decrease in attributable income of $2million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $1million and $51million to Glencores attributable income and revenue, respectively.
european manganese In November 2012, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in Vales European manganese ferro alloys operations, located in Dunkirk, France and Mo I Rana, Norway, for a cash consideration of $190million.
This is the first time that Glencore has expanded into manganese production, strengthening its marketing offer and complementing existing production of steel-making products.
The acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1January 2012, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $303million and a decrease in attributable income of $18million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $49million to revenue and a reduction in attributable income of $7million.
Other Other comprises primarily an acquisition of a 100% interest in a sunseed crushing operation in Ukraine for a cash consideration of $80million.
If the acquisitions had taken place effective 1January 2012, the operations would have contributed additional revenue of $2million and a decrease in attributable income of $1million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $1million and $16million to Glencores attributable income and revenue, respectively.
2012 Disposals In December 2012, Glencore disposed of its 100% interest in Chemoil Storage Limited part of Chemoil Group, which owned and operated the Helios Terminal, for a cash consideration of $287million.
US$ million Total Property, plant and equipment 279 Accounts receivable 1 Cash and cash equivalents 2 Non current borrowings 7 Deferred tax liabilities 7 Current borrowings 1 total net assets disposed 267 Net gain on disposal 20 net cash proceeds 287 Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of 2 net cash received on disposal of subsidiary 285 | | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 149 149 Financial StatementS 2011 Acquisitions During 2011, Glencore acquired interests in various businesses, the most significant being Umcebo Mining Pty Ltd Umcebo.
The net cash used in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition are detailed below: US$ million Umcebo Other Total Provisional as previously Fair value Final fair value Fair value at reported adjustments at acquisition acquisition Property, plant and equipment 555 160 395 220 615 Intangible assets 0 88 88 13 101 Investments in Associates 10 0 10 0 10 Loans and advances 30 0 30 6 36 Inventories 10 0 10 13 23 Accounts receivable 34 0 34 19 53 Cash and cash equivalents 4 0 4 14 18 Non controlling interest 208 63 145 7 152 Non current borrowings 57 0 57 12 69 Deferred tax liabilities 118 9 109 3 112 Provisions 53 0 53 4 57 Accounts payable 84 0 84 28 112 Current borrowings 0 0 0 7 7 total fair value of net assets acquired 123 0 123 224 347 Goodwill arising on acquisition 0 0 0 36 36 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 4 0 4 14 18 4 Less: contingent consideration 0 0 0 15 15 net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 119 0 119 231 350 1 The accounting was provisional at 31December 2011 due to the timing and complexity of the transaction.
These adjustments arose due to the revisions to the valuations of property, plant and equipment, the recognition of port allocation rights, the recognition of tax liabilities and the resulting impact on minority interests.
In 2012, the acquisition accounting was finalised.
2 Represents the gross contractual amount for loans and advances and accounts receivable.
3 None of the goodwill arising on acquisition is deductible for tax purposes.
4 The contingent consideration of $15million related to the purchase of assets of OceanConnect has been settled in 2012 for $10million and a gain of $5million has been realised.
Umcebo In December 2011, in order to increase its South African coal market presence, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 43.7% stake in Umcebo, an unlisted South African coal mining company, for$ 123million cash consideration.
Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Umcebo as the shareholder agreements allow Glencore to control the Board of Directors through the ability to appoint half of the Directors and the CEO, who has the casting vote in respect of the financial and operating policies of Umcebo.
The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination with the non controlling interest being measured at its percentage of net assets acquired.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1January 2011, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $309million and a decrease in attributable income of $3million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $nilmillion and $nilmillion to Glencores income and revenue, respectively, due to the fact that the acquisition was completed in late December2011.
150 | 150 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Other Other comprises primarily acquisitions of crushing operations in the Czech Republic and a 90.7% interest of crushing operations in Poland for cash consideration of$82million and$71million, respectively, a 100% interest in Sable Zinc Kabwe Limited, a Zambian metal-processing operation for cash consideration of$29million and certain assets related to the business of OceanConnect for total consideration of$30million.
The goodwill recognised in connection with these acquisitions principally related to OceanConnect.
If these acquisitions had taken place effective 1January 2011, the operations would have contributed revenue of $ 104million and a decrease in attributable income of $ 19million.
From the date of acquisition the operations contributed $1,321million and $9million to Glencores revenue and income, respectively.
Disposals In 2011, there were no material disposals of subsidiaries.
25. finAnCiAl And CApitAl Risk mAnAGement Financial risks arising in the normal course of business from Glencores operations comprise market risk including commodity price risk, interest rate risk and currency risk, credit risk including performance risk and liquidity risk.
It is Glencores policy and practice to identify and, where appropriate and practical, actively manage such risks to support its objectives in managing its capital and future financial security and flexibility.
Glencores overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to protect its financial security and flexibility by using derivative financial instruments where possible to substantially hedge these financial risks.
Glencores finance and risk professionals, working in coordination with the commodity departments, monitor, manage and report regularly to senior management, the Audit Committee and ultimately the Board of Directors on the approach and effectiveness in managing financial risks along with the financial exposures facing the Group.
Glencores objectives in managing capital attributable to equity holders include preserving its overall financial health and strength for the benefit of all stakeholders, maintaining an optimal capital structure in order to provide a high degree of financial flexibility at an attractive cost of capital and safeguarding its ability to continue as a going concern, while generating sustainable long term profitability.
Paramount in meeting these objectives is Glencores policy to maintain an investment grade rating status.
Following the Xstrata merger and Viterra acquisition announcements, Glencores current credit ratings are Baa2 stable from Moodys and BBB stable from S&P.
Dividend policy The Company intends to pursue a progressive dividend policy with the intention of maintaining or increasing its total ordinary dividend each year.
Dividends are expected to be declared by the Board semi-annually with the half-year results and the preliminary full year results.
Interim dividends are expected to represent approximately one-third of the total dividend for any year.
Dividends will be declared and paid in U. S. dollars, although Shareholders will be able to elect to receive their dividend payments in pounds sterling, Euros or Swiss Francs based on the exchange rates in effect around the date of payment.
Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register will receive their dividends in Hong Kong dollars.
commodity price risk Glencore is exposed to price movements for the inventory it holds and the products it produces which are not held to meet priced forward contract obligations and forward priced purchase or sale contracts.
Glencore manages a significant portion of this exposure through futures and options transactions on worldwide commodity exchanges or in over the counter OTC markets, to the extent available.
Commodity price risk management activities are considered an integral part of Glencores physical commodity marketing activities and the related assets and liabilities are included in other financial assets from and other financial liabilities to derivative counterparties, including clearing brokers and exchanges.
Whilst it is Glencores policy to substantially hedge its commodity price risks, there remains the possibility that the hedging instruments chosen may not always provide effective mitigation of the underlying price risk.
The hedging instruments available to the marketing businesses may differ in specific characteristics to the risk exposure to be hedged, resulting in an ongoing and unavoidable basis risk exposure.
Residual basis risk exposures represent a key focus point for Glencores commodity department teams who actively engage in the management of such.
In previous years Glencore entered into futures transactions designated as cash flow hedges to hedge the price risk of specific future operating expenditure with a notional sell amount of $181million and a recognised fair value liability of $101million as at 31December 2011.
These cash flow hedges matured and were closed in 2012.
As at 31December 2012, there were no open cash flow hedge positions related to future operating expenditure.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 151 151 Financial StatementS Value at risk One of the tools used by Glencore to monitor and limit its primary market risk exposure, namely commodity price risk related to its physical marketing activities, is the use of a value at risk VaR computation.
VaR is a risk measurement technique which estimates the potential loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of movements in risk factors over a specified time horizon, given a specific level of confidence.
The VaR methodology is a statistically defined, probability based approach that takes into account market volatil ities, as well as risk diversification by recognising offsetting positions and correlations between commodities and markets.
In this way, risks can be measured consistently across all markets and commodities and risk measures can be aggregated to derive a single risk value.
Glencores Board has set a consolidated VaR limit 1 day 95% of $ 100million representing less than 0.5% of total equity.
Glencore uses a VaR approach based on Monte Carlo simulations and is computed at a 95% confidence level with a weighted data history using a combination of a one day and one week time horizon.
Position sheets are regularly distributed and monitored and weekly Monte Carlo simulations are applied to the various business groups net marketing positions to determine potential future exposures.
As at 31December2012, Glencores 95%, one day market risk VaR was $ 49million 2011:$ 28million.
Average market risk VaR 1 day 95% during 2012 was$ 40million compared to $ 39million during 2011.
VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair value on earnings to be incurred by Glencore, nor does Glencore claim that these VaR results are indicative of future market movements or representative of any actual impact on its future results.
VaR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations: notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events, market illiquidity risks and tail risks.
Glencore recognises these limitations, and thus complements and continuously refines its VaR analysis by ana lysing forward looking stress scenarios and back testing calculated VaR against actual movements arising in the next business day and week.
Glencores VaR computation currently covers its business in the key base metals aluminium, nickel, zinc, copper, lead, etc, coal, iron ore, oil natural gas and the main risks in the Agricultural products business segment grain, oil seeds, sugar and cotton and assesses the open-priced positions which are those subject to price risk, including inventories of these commodities.
Due to the lack of a liquid terminal market, Glencore does not include a VaR calculation for products such as alumina or certain ferro alloy commodities as it does not consider the nature of these markets, nor the Groups underlying exposures to these products to be suited to this type of analysis.
Alternative tools have been implemented and are used to monitor exposures related to these products.
net present value at risk Glencores future cash flows related to its forecast energy, metals and minerals and agricultural production activities are also exposed to commodity price movements.
Glencore manages this exposure through a combination of portfolio diversification, occasional shorter term hedging via futures and options transactions, insurance products and continuous internal monitoring, reporting and quantification of the underlying operations estimated cashflows and valuations.
interest rate risk Glencore is exposed to various risks associated with the effects of fluctuations in the prevailing levels of market interest rates on its assets and liabilities and cash flows.
Matching of assets and liabilities is utilised as the dominant method to hedge interest rate risks.
Floating rate debt which is predominantly used to fund fast turning working capital interest is internally charged on the funding of this working capital is primarily based on U. S. $ LIBOR plus an appropriate premium.
Accordingly, prevailing market interest rates are continuously factored into transactional pricing and terms.
Assuming the amount of floating rate liabilities at the reporting period end were outstanding for the whole year, interest rates were 50 basis points higher lower and all other variables held constant, Glencores income and equity for the year ended 31December2012 would decrease increase by $ 109million 2011: $ 98million.
currency risk The U. S. Dollar is the predominant functional currency of the Group.
Currency risk is the risk of loss from movements in exchange rates related to transactions and balances in currencies other than the U. S. Dollar.
Such transactions include operating expenditure, capital expenditure and to a lesser extent purchases and sales in currencies other than the functional currency.
Purchases or sales of commodities concluded in currencies other than the functional currency, apart from certain limited domestic sales at industrial operations which act as a hedge against local operating costs, are hedged through forward exchange contracts.
Consequently, foreign exchange movements against the U. S. Dollar on recognised transactions would have an immaterial financial impact.
Glencore enters into currency hedging transactions with leading financial institutions.
Glencores debt related payments both principal and interest are denominated in or swapped using hedging instruments into U. S. Dollars.
Glencores operating expenses, being a small portion of its revenue base, are incurred in a mix of currencies of which the U. S. Dollar, Swiss Franc, Pound Sterling, Canadian Dollar, Australian Dollar, Euro, Kazakhstan Tenge, Colombian Peso and South African Rand are the predominant currencies.
152 | 152 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Glencore has issued Euro, Swiss Franc and Sterling denominated bonds see note19.
Cross currency swaps were concluded to hedge the currency risk on the principal and related interest payments of these bonds.
These contracts were designated as cash flow hedges of the foreign currency risks associated with the bonds.
The fair value of these derivatives is as follows: Notional amounts Recognised fair values Average US$ million Buy Sell Assets Liabilities maturity Cross currency swap agreements 2012 0 9039 0 82 2017 Cross currency swap agreements 2011 0 6080 0 174 2015 Refer to note19 for details.
credit risk Credit risk arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be able to settle obligations due to Glencore within their agreed payment terms.
Financial assets which potentially expose Glencore to credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and advances, derivative instruments and non current advances and loans.
Glencores credit management process includes the assessment, monitoring and reporting of counterparty exposure on a regular basis.
Glencores cash and cash equivalents are placed overnight with a diverse group of highly credit rated financial institutions.
Credit risk with respect to receivables and advances is mitigated by the large number of customers comprising Glencores customer base, their diversity across various industries and geographical areas, as well as Glencores policy to mitigate these risks through letters of credit, netting, collateral and insurance arrangements where appropriate.
Additionally, it is Glencores policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting agreements or long form confirmations to enable offsetting of balances due to from a common counterparty in the event of default by the counterparty.
Glencore actively and continuously monitors the credit quality of its counterparties through internal reviews and a credit scoring process, which includes, where available, public credit ratings.
Balances with counterparties not having a public investment grade or equivalent internal rating are typically enhanced to investment grade through the extensive use of credit enhancement products, such as letters of credit or insurance products.
Glencore has a diverse customer base, with no customer representing more than 3% 2011: 3% of its trade receivables on a gross basis taking into account credit enhancements or accounting for more than 2% of its revenues over the year ended 2012 2011: 2%.
The maximum exposure to credit risk, without considering netting agreements or without taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements, is equal to the carrying amount of Glencores financial assets plus the guarantees to third parties and Associates see note29.
Performance risk Performance risk arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be willing or able to meet their future contractual physical sale or purchase obligations to from Glencore.
Glencore undertakes the assessment, monitoring and reporting of performance risk within its overall credit management process.
Glencores market breadth, diversified supplier and customer base as well as the standard pricing mechanism in the majority of Glencores commodity portfolio which does not fix prices beyond three months, with the main exceptions being coal and cotton where longer term fixed price contracts are common, ensure that performance risk is adequately mitigated.
The commodity industry has trended towards shorter fixed price contract periods, in part to mitigate against such potential performance risk, but also due to the development of more transparent and liquid spot markets, e. g. coal and iron ore and associated derivative products and indexes.
liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Glencore is unable to meet its payment obligations when due, or that it is unable, on an ongoing basis, to borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or secured basis at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents through the availability of adequate committed funding facilities.
Glencore has set itself an internal minimum liquidity target to maintain at all times, available committed undrawn credit facilities of$ 3billion 2011: $3billion.
Glencores credit profile, diversified funding sources and committed credit facilities, ensure that sufficient liquid funds are maintained to meet its liquidity requirements.
As part of its liquidity management, Glencore closely monitors and plans for its future capital expenditure and proposed investments, as well as credit facility refinancing extension requirements, well ahead of time.
Certain borrowing arrangements require compliance with specific financial covenants related to working capital, minimum current ratio and a maximum long term debt to tangible net worth ratio.
During the period, the Company has complied with these requirements.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 153 153 Financial StatementS As at 31December 2012, Glencore had available committed undrawn credit facilities, cash and marketable securities amounting to $9,018million 2011:$ 6,831million.
The maturity profile of Glencores financial liabilities based on the contractual terms is as follows: 2012 After Due Due Due Due US$ million 5 years 3 5 years 2 3 years 1 2 years 0 1 year Total Borrowings 4680 2757 2312 9279 16498 35526 Expected future interest payments 417 684 662 927 1067 3757 Viterra assets acquirer loans 0 0 0 0 2580 2580 Accounts payable 0 0 0 0 23501 23501 Other financial liabilities 0 0 0 0 3388 3388 total 5097 3441 2974 10206 47034 68752 Current assets 54059 54059 2011 After Due Due Due Due US$ million 5 years 3 5 years 2 3 years 1 2 years 0 1 year Total Borrowings 3285 2178 9985 4396 8224 28068 Expected future interest payments 270 547 768 849 942 3376 Accounts payable 0 0 0 0 18136 18136 Other financial liabilities 0 820 39 394 3551 4804 total 3555 3545 10792 5639 30853 54384 Current assets 45731 45731 154 | 154 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 26. finAnCiAl instRUments Fair value of financial instruments The following table presents the carrying values and fair values of Glencores financial instruments.
Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidated sale.
Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values.
When market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest and exchange rates.
The estimated fair values have been determined using market information and appropriate valuation methodologies, but are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that Glencore could realise in the normal course of business.
The financial assets and liabilities are presented by class in the tables below at their carrying values, which generally approximate to the fair values.
In the case of$35,526million 2011:$28,029million of borrowings, the fair value at 31December2012 is$36,371million 2011:$28,247million.
2012 Carrying Available 1 2 US$ million value for sale FVtPL Total assets 3 Other investments 0 840 749 1589 Advances and loans 3758 0 0 3758 Accounts receivable 24882 0 0 24882 Other financial assets 0 0 2650 2650 Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 0 0 2820 2820 total financial assets 28640 840 6219 35699 liabilities Borrowings 35526 0 0 35526 Viterra asset acquirer loans 2580 0 0 2580 Accounts payable 23501 0 0 23501 Other financial liabilities 0 0 3388 3388 total financial liabilities 61607 0 3388 64995 1 Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
2 FVtPL Fair value through profit and loss held for trading.
3 Other investments of$1,414million are classified as Level 1 with the remaining balance of$175million classified as Level 3.
The change in the Level 3 other investments is a result of purchases made during the year.
2011 Carrying Available 1 2 US$ million value for sale FVtPL Total assets 3 Other investments 0 842 705 1547 Advances and loans 4141 0 0 4141 Accounts receivable 21895 0 0 21895 Other financial assets 0 0 5065 5065 Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 0 0 1345 1345 total financial assets 26036 842 7115 33993 liabilities Borrowings 28068 0 0 28068 Accounts payable 18160 0 0 18160 Other financial liabilities 0 0 4804 4804 total financial liabilities 46228 0 4804 51032 1 Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
3 Other investments of$1,429million are classified as Level 1 with the remaining balance of$118million classified as Level 3.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 155 155 Financial StatementS The following tables show the fair values of the derivative financial instruments including trade related financial and physical forward purchase and sale commitments by type of contract as at 31December 2012 and 2011.
Fair values are primarily determined using quoted market prices or standard pricing models using observable market inputs where available and are presented to reflect the expected gross future cash in outflows.
Glencore classifies the fair values of its financial instruments into a three level hierarchy based on the degree of the source and observability of the inputs that are used to derive the fair value of the financial asset or liability as follows: Level 1 unadjusted quoted inputs in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: or Level 2 inputs other than quoted inputs included in Level 1 that are directly or indirectly observable in the market: or Level 3 unobservable market inputs or observable but can not be market corroborated, requiring Glencore to make market based assumptions.
Level 1 classifications primarily include futures with a tenor of less than one year and options that are exchange traded.
Level 2 classi fications primarily include futures with a tenor greater than one year, over the counter options, swaps and physical forward transactions which derive their fair value primarily from exchange quotes and readily observable broker quotes.
Level 3 classifications primarily include physical forward transactions which derive their fair value predominately from models that use broker quotes and applicable market based estimates surrounding location, quality and credit differentials.
In circumstances where Glencore cannot verify fair value with observable market inputs Level 3 fair values, it is possible that a different valuation model could produce a materially different estimate of fair value.
It is Glencores policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting agreements or long form confirmations to enable balances due to from a common counterparty to be offset in the event of default by the counterparty.
Other financial assets 2012 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total commodity related contracts Futures 564 141 0 705 Options 27 0 4 31 Swaps 75 304 0 379 Physical forwards 12 778 485 1275 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 5 147 0 152 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 63 45 0 108 total 746 1415 489 2650 2011 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total commodity related contracts Futures 2521 528 0 3049 Options 50 0 0 50 Swaps 67 239 0 306 Physical forwards 0 1015 458 1473 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 0 76 0 76 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 61 50 0 111 total 2699 1908 458 5065 156 | 156 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Other financial liabilities 2012 US$ million Notes Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total commodity related contracts Futures 712 283 0 995 Options 96 1 37 134 Swaps 25 267 0 292 Physical forwards 14 439 393 846 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 0 633 0 633 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 48 21 0 69 Put option over non controlling interest 24 0 0 419 419 total 895 1644 849 3388 2011 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total commodity related contracts Futures 1643 758 0 2401 Options 61 51 25 137 Swaps 31 372 0 403 Physical forwards 0 590 416 1006 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 0 766 0 766 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 76 15 0 91 total 1811 2552 441 4804 The following table shows the net changes in fair value of Level 3 other financial assets and other financial liabilities: Physical Total US$ million Notes forwards Options Level 3 1January 2011 355 99 256 Total gain loss recognised in cost of goods sold 269 1 268 Realised 44 73 29 31December 2011 42 25 17 1January 2012 42 25 17 Total gain loss recognised in cost of goods sold 10 33 23 Put option over non controlling interest 24 0 419 419 Realised 44 21 65 31December 2012 96 456 360 | Annual Report 2012 | 157 Financial StatementS 27.
AUditoRs RemUneRAtion US$ million 2012 2011 Remuneration in respect of the audit of Glencores consolidated financial statements 4 3 Other audit fees, primarily in respect of audits of accounts of subsidiaries 13 13 total audit fees 17 16 Audit-related assurance services 2 2 Corporate finance services 6 12 Taxation compliance services 3 2 Other taxation advisory services 2 1 Other services 2 1 total non-audit fees 15 18 total professional fees 32 34 1 Included within corporate finance services for the year ended 31December 2012 is $4million 2011 $nilmillion of professional fees related directly to the auditors role as Reporting Accountant in connection with the merger with Xstrata plc see note28.
Within corporate finance services for the year ended 31December 2011 is $9million of professional fees related directly to the auditors role as Reporting Accountant in connection with the Listing.
28. fUtURe Commitments Capital expenditure for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment is generally funded through the cash flow generated by the respective industrial entities.
As at 31December 2012, $ 756million 2011:$ 884million, of which 63% 2011: 92% relates to expenditure to be incurred over the next year, was contractually committed for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
Certain of Glencores exploration tenements and licenses require it to spend a minimum amount per year on development activities, a significant portion of which would have been incurred in the ordinary course of operations.
As at 31December 2012, $ 343million 2011:$ 549million of such development expenditures are to be incurred, of which 41% 2011: 57% are for commitments to be settled over the next year.
Glencore procures seagoing vessels chartering services to meet its overall marketing objectives and commitments.
At year end, Glencore has committed to future hire costs to meet future physical delivery and sale obligations and expectations of$ 1,419million 2011:$ 2,171million of which$ 596million 2011:$ 570million are with associated companies.
55% 2011: 50% of the total charters are for services to be received over the next 2 years.
As part of Glencores ordinary sourcing and procurement of physical commodities and other ordinary marketing obligations, the selling party may request that a financial institution act as either a the paying party upon the delivery of product and qualifying documents through the issuance of a letter of credit or b the guarantor by way of issuing a bank guarantee accepting responsibility for Glencores contractual obligations.
As at 31December 2012, $ 10,509million 2011:$ 8,642million of such commitments have been issued on behalf of Glencore, which will generally be settled simultaneously with the payment for such commodity.
Glencore has entered into various operating leases mainly as lessee for office and warehouse storage facilities.
Rental expenses for these leases totalled respectively$ 99million and$ 77million for the years ended 31December 2012 and 2011.
Future net minimum lease payments under non cancellable operating leases are as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 Within 1 year 110 76 Between 2 and 5 years 213 147 After 5 years 160 120 total 483 343 158 | 158 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Glencore has entered into finance leases for various plant and equipment items, primarily vessels and machinery.
Future net minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the future finance charges are as follows: Undiscounted minimum Present value of minimum lease payments lease payments US$ million 2012 2011 2012 2011 Within 1 year 62 50 48 39 Between 2 and 5 years 188 197 146 164 After 5 years 109 136 87 114 total minimum lease payments 359 383 281 317 Less: amounts representing finance lease charges 78 66 Present value of minimum lease payments 281 317 281 317 Future development and related commitments Xstrata On 7February 2012, the Glencore Directors and the Independent Xstrata Directors announced that they had reached an agreement on the terms of a recommended all-share merger the Merger between Glencore and Xstrata to create a unique $90billion natural resources group.
The final terms of the Merger provide Xstrata shareholders with 3.05 newly issued shares in Glencore for each Xstrata share held.
The Merger, which received shareholder approval in November 2012, is to be effected by way of a court sanctioned scheme of arrangement of Xstrata under Part 26 of the UK Companies Act, pursuant to which Glencore will acquire the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of Xstrata not already owned by the Glencore Group.
Completion of the Merger remains conditional upon the receipt of the outstanding regulatory approval in China and completion of the Xstrata court process as further set out in the New Scheme Document in connection with the Merger published by Xstrata on 25October 2012 and Glencore giving effect to the commitments required by the European Commission.
Glencore will be required to repay the Xstrata secured bank loans see note19 prior to completion of the Merger.
Costs of $58million included within other expense net, see note4 have been expensed to date.
Kansuki In August 2010, Glencore acquired an ultimate 37.5% interest in the Kansuki concession Kansuki, a 185 square kilometre copper and cobalt pre-development project which borders Glencores partly owned Mutanda concession in the DRC.
In exchange, Glencore has a an obligation to finance the first $400million of development related expenditures, b the right to operate the operations and c a life of mine off-take agreement for all copper and cobalt produced by Kansuki.
In addition, one of the partners in Kansuki has the right to sell an additional 18.75% ultimate interest to Glencore at the then calculated equity value of the operation, at the earlier of the date the operation produces a minimum annual 70,000tonnes of copper and August 2013.
A total of $507million of capital expenditure for mine and plant development has been committed of which $413million has been spent.
Exploration of the Kansuki concession is ongoing.
Discussions with respect to a potential combination of the Mutanda and Kansuki operations are ongoing, with a view to ultimately obtaining a majority stake in the merged entity.
Prodeco Prodeco currently exports the majority of its coal through Puerto Prodeco which operates under a private concession awarded by the Colombian government.
This concession expired in March 2009, however the Colombian government has continued to grant Prodeco the right to use the port under annual lease agreements, currently expiring around the time of the expected commissioning of Puerto Nuevo in the first half of 2013 as discussed below.
To comply with new government regulations on loading methods, which became effective from July 2010, Prodeco commenced construction of a new, wholly owned, port facility Puerto Nuevo which is estimated to cost $553million and be commissioned over the first half of 2013.
As at 31December 2012, $449million of the estimated initial investment has been incurred and $38million has been contractually committed and is included in the capital expenditure commitments disclosure above.
Snel power project In early 2012, a joint programme with Socit Nationale dElectricit SNEL, the DRCs national electricity utility, was signed.
Glencores operations will contribute $284million to a major electricity infrastructure refurbishment programme of transmission and distribution systems.
This will facilitate a progressive increase in power availability to 450 megawatts by the end of 2015.
Funding started in the second quarter of 2012 and will continue until the end of 2015.
As at 31December 2012, $13million has been advanced under this joint agreement.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 159 159 Financial StatementS chad oil investments In December 2012, Glencore signed a farm-in agreement the FIA with Griffiths Energy International Inc. and its subsidiaries Griffiths to acquire a 33.3% participating interest stake in each of Griffiths three production sharing contracts in the Republic of Chad the PSCs.
In addition, under the terms of the FIA, Glencore will acquire a 25% participating interest in the Mangara and Badila Exclusive Exploitation Authorizations the EXAs from Griffiths.
In consideration for the 33.3% participating interests in Mangara and Badila, in addition to its own share of expenditure, Glencore will fund $300million of Griffiths share of joint venture expenditures in the Mangara and Badila oil fields up to a maximum of $100million per year, starting from 1July 2012 Effective Date.
In consideration for the assignment of the participating interests in the PSCs, Glencore will pay Griffiths approximately $31million on closing of the FIA, representing 33.3% of Griffiths unrecoverable costs related to the three PSCs as of the Effective Date.
The above transaction is subject to approval by the Government of Chad and waiver of certain pre-emption rights.
Rosneft On 21December 2012, Glencore and Vitol agreed heads of terms for long term crude and oil products offtake contracts with Rosneft under which Rosneft will deliver up to 67million metric tonnes of crude oil and oil products by mutual agreement over a period of 5 years split 70 30 between Glencore and Vitol.
This long term supply contract was finalised and signed on 4 March 2013.
Additionally, Glencore and Vitol will jointly arrange up to a $10billion prepayment facility in favor of Rosneft, in which Glencore expects to hold a participation of up to $500million alongside a broad syndicate of banks.
The closing of such facility is expected by the end of Q12013.
ContinGent liAbilities The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of associated and third parties as at 31December 2012, was $ 46million 2011: $ 53million.
litigation Certain legal actions, other claims and unresolved disputes are pending against Glencore.
Whilst Glencore cannot predict the results of any litigation, it believes that it has meritorious defenses against those actions or claims.
Glencore believes the likelihood of any material liability arising from these claims to be remote and that the liability, if any, resulting from any litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cashflows.
environmental contingencies Glencores operations, mainly those arising from the ownership in industrial investments, are subject to various environmental laws and regulations.
Glencore is in material compliance with those laws and regulations.
Glencore accrues for environmental contingencies when such contingencies are probable and reasonably estimable.
Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change.
Recoveries of environmental remediation costs from insurance companies and other parties are recorded as assets when the recoveries are virtually certain.
At this time, Glencore is unaware of any material environmental incidents at its locations.
Bolivian constitution In 2009 the Government of Bolivia enacted a new constitution.
One of the principles of the constitution requires mining entities to form joint ventures with the government.
Glencore, through its subsidiary Sinchi Wayra, has, in good faith, entered into negotiations with the Bolivian government regarding this requirement.
Whilst progress was being made, in June 2012 the Government of Bolivia nationalised Sinchi Wayras Colquiri mine.
Sinchi Wayra continues to negotiate joint venture arrangements for its other mines along with restitution in respect of its nationalised mine, the final outcome and the timing thereof cannot be determined at this stage.
tax audits Glencore assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available.
For those matters where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Group records its best estimate of these tax liabilities, including related interest charges.
Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to complexities of interpretation and changes in tax laws.
Whilst Glencore believes it has adequately provided for the outcome of these matters, future results may include favourable or unfavourable adjustments to these estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made, or resolved.
The final outcome of tax examinations may result in a materially different outcome than assumed in the tax liabilities.
160 | 160 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 30.
RelAted pARty tRAnsACtions In the normal course of business, Glencore enters into various arms length transactions with related parties including Xstrata and Century, including fixed price commitments to sell and to purchase commodities, forward sale and purchase contracts, agency agreements and management service agreements.
Outstanding balances at period end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash see notes 10, 12, 15 and 23.
There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables.
All transactions between Glencore and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation along with any unrealised profits and losses between its subsidiaries and Associates.
Glencore entered into the following transactions with its Associates: US$ million 2012 2011 Sales 1661 1666 Purchases 10244 10414 Interest income 24 42 Interest expense 1 1 Agency income 95 69 Information on post employment benefits that are classified as funded defined benefit plans in accordance with IAS 19 is included in note22.
There were no further material transactions with the defined benefit plans.
Note 15 provides details of the acquisition of an 18.91% further stake in Kazzinc.
The seller of that interest, JSC Verny Capital Verny, is a substantial shareholder in Kazzinc, which is a subsidiary undertaking of Glencore.
Accordingly, the acquisition from Verny constitutes a related party transaction for the purposes of the UK FSA Listing Rules.
Due to the amount of the consideration payable by Glencore pursuant to the transaction being the issue of 176,742,520 new ordinary shares in Glencore and the payment of $400million in cash, the UK Listing Authority confirmed on 24September 2012 that the transaction falls within the modified requirements for a smaller related party transaction set out in Listing Rule 11.1.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management personnel recognised in the statement of income including salaries and other current employee benefits amounted to $7million 2011: $175million.
Immediately prior to the Listing, Glencore implemented a Restructuring whereby $6,130million of PPS and HPPS amounts owing to the Directors and other members of key management personnel were settled in exchange for new ordinary shares see note15.
Further details on remuneration of Directors is set out in the Directors Remuneration report in section 3.4.
31. sUbseqUent events On 26February 2013, Glencore-controlled Kazzinc purchased an 89.5% interest in two gold deposits in northern Kazakhstan with combined resources of 75,727tonnes of gold for $179million.
The transaction was accomplished via the purchase of Kazakh company Orion Minerals which owns subsoil rights at the Raigorodok field in the Akmola Region and the Komarovskoye field in the Kostanai region.
Due to the timing of the transaction, management is in the preliminary stages of determining the nature of the operations, the associated values of the assets and liabilities acquired and the accounting for the acquisition.
Accordingly, certain disclosures relating to the business combination such as the provisional fair value of the net assets acquired have not been presented.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 161 161 Financial StatementS 32. list of pRinCipAl opeRAtinG, finAnCe And indUstRiAl sUbsidiARies And investments Method of consolidation Country of % % 1 in 2012 incorporation interest 2012 interest 2011 Main activity Glencore International plc P Jersey Glencore International AG F Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore AG F Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating Allied Alumina Inc. Sherwin F United States 100.0 100.0 Alumina production 2 Century Aluminum Company E United States 46.6 46.4 Aluminium production Glencore Funding LLC F United States 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore UK Ltd F U. K. 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Commodities Ltd F U. K. 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Energy UK Ltd F U. K. 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Group Funding Limited F UAE 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Finance Bermuda Ltd F Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Finance AR Zinc Group F Argentina 100.0 100.0 Zinc Lead production Perkoa Group F Burkina Faso 55.7 55.7 Zinc development Empresa Minera Los Quenuales S. A. F Peru 97.6 97.5 Zinc Lead production Glencore Exploration EG Ltd. F Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil production Glencore Finance Europe S. A. F Luxembourg 100.0 100.0 Finance Kansuki Group E DRC 37.5 37.5 Copper production Minera Altos fide Punitaqui F Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production Mopani Copper Mines plc F Zambia 73.1 73.1 Copper production Mutanda Group F DRC 60.0 40.0 Copper production Prodeco Group F Colombia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Recylex S. A. E France 32.2 32.2 Zinc Lead production Rosh Pinah Zinc Corporation F Namibia 80.1 0.0 Zinc Lead production Sinchi Wayra Group F Bolivia 100.0 100.0 Zinc Tin production United Company Rusal Limited O Jersey 8.8 8.8 Aluminium production Finges Investment B. V. F Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Finance 3 Biopetrol Industries AG F Switzerland 67.5 60.3 Biodiesel production Glencore Grain B. V. F Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Operating Nyrstar N. V. O Belgium 7.8 7.8 Zinc Lead production Optimum Coal Holdings Limited F South Africa 67.0 31.2 Coal production Pannon Vegetable Oil Manufacturing F Hungary 100.0 100.0 Vegetable oil production Rio Vermelho F Brazil 100.0 100.0 Sugar cane ethanol production Sable Zinc Kabwe Limited F Zambia 100.0 100.0 Copper production 4 Umcebo Mining Pty Ltd F South Africa 43.7 43.7 Coal production Usti Oilseed Group F Czech Republic 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production Xstrata plc E U. K. 34.2 34.5 Diversified production Zaklady Tluszczowe w Bodaczowie F Poland 99.9 90.7 Edible oil production 5 Chemoil Energy Limited F Hong Kong 89.2 51.5 Oil storage and bunkering Cobar Group F Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper production Glencore Manganese Group F France Norway 100.0 0.0 Manganese furnace Glencore Singapore Pte Ltd F Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating Kazzinc Ltd. F Kazakhstan 69.6 50.7 Zinc Lead Copper production Vasilkovskoye Gold F Kazakhstan 100.0 100.0 Gold production 1 P Parent: F Full consolidation: E Equity method: O Other investment 2 R epresents Glencores economic interest in Century, comprising 41.8% 2011: 41.6% voting interest and 4.8% 2011: 4.8% non voting interest.
3 Publicly traded on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol A0HNQ5.
4 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Umcebo as a result of shareholder agreements which provide Glencore the ability to control the Board of Directors.
5 Publicly traded on the Singapore Exchange under the symbol CHEL.
162 | 162 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Method of consolidation Country of % % in 2012 incorporation interest 2012 interest 2011 Main activity 6 Katanga Mining Limited F Canada 75.2 75.2 Copper production Murrin Murrin Group F Australia 100.0 100.0 Nickel production Correcta Industria e Comercio Ltdo.
F Brazil 100.0 100.0 Wheat flour milling Moreno Group F Argentina 100.0 100.0 Edible oils production Pacorini Group F Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Metals warehousing Pasar Group F Philippines 78.2 78.2 Copper production Polymet Mining Corp. E Canada 25.7 24.1 Copper production Portovesme S. r. L. F Italy 100.0 100.0 Zinc Lead production Renova S. A. E Argentina 33.3 33.5 Vegetable oil production 7 Russneft Group various companies O Russia 40.0 49.0 40.0 49.0 Oil production 8 Shanduka Coal Pty Ltd F South Africa 49.9 70.0 Coal production ST Shipping & Transport Pte Ltd F Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating Topley Corporation F B. V. I.
100.0 100.0 Ship owner Viterra Group F Canada 100.0 0.0 Grain handling Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. O Peru 7.3 6.9 Zinc production 6 Publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol KAT.
7 Although Glencore holds more than 20% of the voting rights, it has limited management influence and thus does not exercise significant influence.
8 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Shanduka as a result of shareholder agreements.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2012 || 163 163 Murrin Murrin, Australia AdditionAl informA tion | 5 Additional information 5.1 | Glossary 166 5.2 | Shareholder information 167
