Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of the Go-Ahead Group plc Opinion on other matter prescribed by the We have audited the Group financial statements of the Go-Ahead Companies Act 2006 Group plc for the year ended 30 June 2012 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the the consolidated cashflow statement, the consolidated statement financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes is consistent with the Group financial statements.
in equity and the related notes 1 to 29.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable Matters on which we are required to report by law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as exception adopted by the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. if, in our opinion: Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are Companys members those matters we are required to state to them not made: or in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 81, in relation to going Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor concern: and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 82, the Directors are responsible for the preparation the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and on Directors remuneration.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial Scope of the audit of the financial statements statements of the Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 30 June 2012 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Report that is described as having been audited.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of Kathryn Barrow Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor, London the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and 5 September 2012 non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Notes: inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
The maintenance and integrity of the Go-Ahead Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes Opinion on financial statements that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented In our opinion the Group financial statements: on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
as at 30 June 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
