com responsibility Sustainability Our Group website Our sustainability section provides detailed information Our website has been awarded the best in the FTSE 250 by the about our approach to sustainability, our targets and Investor Relations Society for the third year running.
Within our performance, including: website you can nd a wealth of up-to-date information including: Progress against KPIs for our five areas of sustainability An overview of who we are, what we do and safety, environment, passengers, employees and the markets in which we operate.
community, including our economic impacts.
Proles of our operational directors, the Board of Directors Datasheets showing detailed sustainability performance and our corporate governance framework.
for the Group and our operating companies.
A timeline of the Groups history and development.
The Groups awards and achievements.
An interactive map showing the areas we operate and Go-Learn - our free downloadable education information about our bus and rail companies.
The latest Group news and our financial calendar.
PDFs of the Groups sustainability report and individual operating company reports will be available later in the year.
Investor relations You can access a wide range of information in the investor Sustainability report 2012 Sustainability report 2012 Sustainability report 2012 Sustainability report 2012 Sustainability report 2012 relations centre including: A five year history of Group and divisional key nancials.
Taking our Taking our Taking our communities places Taking our communities places Taking our communities places communities places communities places A record of all trading updates, half year and full year announcements in the results centre.
Our dividend policy, dividend history and dividend calculator.
Share price information including history and calculator.
Sustainability report 2012 Sustainability report 2012 Sustainability report 2012 Sustainability report 2012 Sustainability report 2012 Sustainability report 2012 Detailed information about our rail franchises.
Our bus fuel hedging policy and prole of the Groups Taking our Taking our Taking our communities places Taking our communities places Taking our communities places Taking our hedging prices.
communities places communities places communities places Analyst consensus.
Investor relations team contact details.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Registered Ofce 3rd Floor 4151 Grey Street Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 6EE Telephone 0191 232 3123 The Go-Ahead Group plc Head Ofce 6th Floor 1 Warwick Row London SW1E 5ER Telephone 0207 821 3939 Email enquiries$go-ahead.
com This Report is printed on Arcoprint paper Summary Verication Statement and has been independently certied by the from Bureau Veritas UK Ltd Forest Stewardship Council.
For the fourth year, Bureau Veritas UK Ltd has worked with the Go-Ahead Group plc Made with 100% ECF pulps using no harmful to verify selected corporate responsibility chemicals and produced at a paper mill certied key performance indicators KPI data to ISO 14001. contained within the Go-Ahead Groups The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
Printed at Principal Colour Ltd, ISO 14001 The information and data reviewed for and FSC certied.
this verication process relates to the period from 3 July 2011 to the 30 June 2012.
Designed and produced by Black Sun plc www.
