Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2012 1.
Authorisation of financial statements The statement of changes in equity now presents for each and statement of compliance with IFRSs component of equity an analysis by item of other comprehensive income as required by an amendment to IAS 1 included in the The consolidated financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc Improvements to IFRSs issued in May 2010.
Adoption of the remaining the Group for the year ended 30 June 2012 were authorised for new standards and interpretations did not have a material impact on issue by the Board of Directors on 5 September 2012 and the balance the financial performance or position of the Group.
sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Sir Patrick Brown and Keith Down.
The Go-Ahead Group plc is a public limited company Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty that is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in England The preparation of the financial statements requires management and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are publicly traded on to make judgements, estimates and assumptions.
Although these the London Stock Exchange and it is not under the control of any judgements and estimates are based on managements best knowledge, single shareholder.
actual results ultimately may differ from these estimates.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been The following judgements apart from those involving estimates prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards have had the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the financial statements: consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 30 June 2012, and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Contract and franchise accounting Companies Act 2006.
The Group is required to comply with Judgements are made on an ongoing basis with regards to international accounting requirements under IAS 1 Presentation recoverability of amounts due and the carrying value of related assets of Financial Statements except in extremely rare circumstances and liabilities arising from contracts and franchises.
Regular forecasts where management concludes that compliance would be so misleading are compiled on the outcome of these contracts and franchise that it would conflict with the objective to present fairly its financial arrangements, which require assessments and judgements relating statements.
On that basis, the Group has departed from the to the expected level of revenues and costs and, in cases where requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits and has accounted for its options exist, the life of the contract or franchise.
constructive but not legal obligations for the Railways Pension Scheme Taxation RPS under the terms of its UK rail franchise agreements.
Details of Judgement is required when determining the provision for taxes the background and rationale for this departure are provided in as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot be fully determined note 28. until a formal resolution has been reached with the tax authorities.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the benefit 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies will be obtained.
Tax provisions are made if it is possible that a liability Basis of preparation will arise.
The Group reviews each significant tax liability or benefit to A summary of the Groups accounting policies applied in preparing assess the appropriate accounting treatment.
the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2012 are set out below.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling liabilities within the next financial year are in relation to: and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand 0.1m except when otherwise indicated.
the measurement and impairment testing of indefinite life intangible assets requires estimation of future cashflows and the selection of As noted above, the Group has taken the decision to depart a suitable discount rate and growth rate, as detailed in note 14: from the requirements of IAS 19 so as to present fairly its financial performance, position, and cashflows in respect of its obligation the measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires the for the RPS.
estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, the expected return on assets and the selection of a suitable discount rate, as set out in New standards note 28: The following new standards or interpretations are mandatory the measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an assessment of for the first time for the financial year ending 30 June 2012: the expected settlement of known claims and an estimate of the cost IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures revised of claims not yet reported to the Group, as detailed in note 25: and IFRS 7 Amendment Transfers of Financial Assets the measurement of franchise commitments, comprising dilapidation provisions on vehicles, depots and stations and also IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding income claims from other rail franchise operators, is based on requirement amendment managements assessment of most probable outcomes, supported Improvement to IFRSs May 2010 where appropriate by valuations from professional external advisers, as set out in note 25.
88 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
