Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Finance lease and hire purchase commitments The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for bus vehicles and various items of plant and machinery.
These contracts have no terms of renewal or purchase option escalation clauses.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments, are as follows: 2012 2011 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments m m m m Within one year 3.5 3.2 2.5 2.4 After one year but not more than five years 3.3 3.0 3.5 3.1 Total minimum lease payments 6.8 6.0 Less amounts representing finance charges 0.6 0.5 Present value of minimum lease payments 6.2 6.2 5.5 5.5 The finance lease and hire purchase commitments all relate to bus vehicles.
Financial risk management objectives and policies Financial risk factors and management The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, a sterling bond, hire purchase and finance lease contracts, and cash and short term deposits.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide an appropriate level of net debt to fund the Groups activities, namely working capital, fixed asset expenditure, acquisitions, dividends and share buybacks.
The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
The Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily interest rate swaps and fuel swaps.
The purpose of these is to manage the interest rate and fuel price risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
It is, and has been throughout 2012 and 2011, the Groups policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken and derivatives are only purchased for internal benefit.
The main financial risks arising from the Groups activities are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Risks arising from fuel derivatives are explained in note 24.
116 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
