Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee Report I am delighted to have taken on the role as the Committees new Chairman and would like to thank Rupert for his time and contribution as former Chairman of the Committee.
Following the extensive review of policy last year, our main focus this year has been ensuring that the reward arrangements in place remain appropriate.
Meetings During the year the Committee met four times, excluding meetings held to review its effectiveness as part of the annual performance evaluation.
Members individual attendance can be found on page 60.
Katherine Innes Ker also met separately with the Group Company Secretary for a tailored induction upon appointment as Chairman of the Committee.
This Katherine Innes Ker included a brieng on the Committees Terms of Reference, remuneration policy, the BIS Committee Chairman consultation and guidelines on executive remuneration from the Code and representative bodies including the Association of British Insurers ABI and the National Association of Pension Funds Members NAPF.
Katherine also met with the Groups independent remuneration consultants, ewitt Katherine Innes Ker New Bridge Street a trading name of Aon, ewitt Limited.
Independent Non-Executive Director Key roles and responsibilities Sir Patrick Brown Key responsibilities of the Committee include determining the fees of the Chairman and Company Chairman annually reviewing the remuneration policy for Executive Directors including the balance Andrew Allner between the xed and performance-related elements of pay, benefit plans and compensation Senior Independent Director payments.
The Committee also reviews reports from the Group Chief Executive on salary and bonus arrangements for the senior management of each operating company and senior Group Rupert Pennant-Rea personnel, taking into consideration company performance versus budget.
Non-Executive Director The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the corporate website at www.
com 1 Nick Horler or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
Independent Non-Executive Director The Remuneration Committees activities 2012 1.
Nick, orler replaced Rupert Pennant-Rea The main activities undertaken during the financial year included: as an independent member of the Committee following his appointment on 14 November 2011. reviewing the continued appropriateness of the remuneration policy as implemented last year: Composition compliant with Provision determining the new awards to be made to the Executive Directors under the Long Term D. 2.1 of the Code Incentive Plan: reviewing whether any of the award granted to the former Group Chief Executive under the Committee Secretary Long Term Incentive Plan in October 2009 should vest following the end of the three year Carolyn Sephton performance period: Group Company Secretary reviewing the Remuneration Committees Report and Directors Remuneration Reports for the Annual Report: and Meetings also regularly attended, by invitation, by: working with the Audit Committee, reviewing Executive Directors performance versus budget David Brown for performance related bonus purposes.
Group Chief Executive Review of remuneration policy The Committee at least annually reviews the appropriateness of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and senior management.
The Committee has reviewed the changes to the remuneration policy introduced last year and, mindful of the current economic conditions, remains satisfied that there is a clear link between performance and the pay received so as to reect the Groups corporate goals and the shareholders best interests.
Full details of the work of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report from page 71.
Compliance with the Code The Committee has reviewed and confirms compliance with all aspects of the Principles, Provisions and Schedule A of the Code on reward-related matters.
70 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
