Financial Statements Notes to the Parent Company financial statements 1.
Parent Company accounting policies For the defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of pension costs and other Basis of preparation post-retirement benefits is the contributions payable in the year.
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as Differences between contributions payable in the year and required by the Companies Act 2006 and were approved for issue contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or on 5 September 2012.
They have been prepared in accordance with prepayments in the balance sheet.
applicable United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Share based payments No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and the The Company has taken advantage of the transitional provision Company has taken the exemptions under FRS 1 not to present of FRS 20 and has applied FRS 20 only to those options granted a cashflow statement.
The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available to are granted, determined by an external valuation using an appropriate parent companies under FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures so pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled options, no account is taken as not to provide the information otherwise required by the standard, of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the as the Groups consolidated financial statements, in which the price of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group plc market conditions, Company is included, provide equivalent disclosures for the Group to conditions not related to performance or service non-vesting under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
conditions and to earnings per share criteria.
Tangible fixed assets The cost of options is recognised in the profit and loss account Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost less over the period from grant to vesting date, being the date on which accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Freehold land the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award, with a is not depreciated.
The cumulative expense recognised, at each reporting date, reflects the extent to which the period to Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter vesting has expired and the Directors best estimate of the number of their expected useful lives and the lease terms.
of options that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument Depreciation is charged to the profit and loss account based on cost subject to a market or non-vesting condition, be treated as vesting or valuation, less estimated residual value of each asset evenly over as described above.
This includes any award where non-vesting its expected useful life as follows: conditions within the control of the Group or the employee are Short leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease not met.
Freehold buildings and No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest except long leasehold land and buildings Over 10 to 100 years for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or Plant and equipment Over 3 to 15 years not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where an equity-settled are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised for the award is If any such indication exists the assets are written down to their recognised immediately.
Deferred tax Investments The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are shown at into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between cost less provision for impairment.
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Pension benefits Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences which have The Company is a member of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Except where operated by The Go-Ahead Group plc for the majority of its otherwise required by accounting standards, no timing differences employees.
This defined benefit scheme is a multi-employer scheme are recognised in respect of: for which the individual employers share of the underlying assets and property revaluation surpluses where there is no commitment to liabilities cannot be identified and accordingly the Company accounts sell the asset: for them as defined contribution schemes.
gains on sale of assets where those gains have been rolled over into replacement assets: deferred tax assets except to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
136 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
