Financial Statements Notes to the Parent Company financial statements 1.
Parent Company accounting policies For the defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of pension costs and other Basis of preparation post-retirement benefits is the contributions payable in the year.
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as Differences between contributions payable in the year and required by the Companies Act 2006 and were approved for issue contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or on 5 September 2012.
They have been prepared in accordance with prepayments in the balance sheet.
applicable United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Share based payments No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and the The Company has taken advantage of the transitional provision Company has taken the exemptions under FRS 1 not to present of FRS 20 and has applied FRS 20 only to those options granted a cashflow statement.
The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available to are granted, determined by an external valuation using an appropriate parent companies under FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures so pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled options, no account is taken as not to provide the information otherwise required by the standard, of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the as the Groups consolidated financial statements, in which the price of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group plc market conditions, Company is included, provide equivalent disclosures for the Group to conditions not related to performance or service non-vesting under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
conditions and to earnings per share criteria.
Tangible fixed assets The cost of options is recognised in the profit and loss account Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost less over the period from grant to vesting date, being the date on which accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Freehold land the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award, with a is not depreciated.
The cumulative expense recognised, at each reporting date, reflects the extent to which the period to Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter vesting has expired and the Directors best estimate of the number of their expected useful lives and the lease terms.
of options that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument Depreciation is charged to the profit and loss account based on cost subject to a market or non-vesting condition, be treated as vesting or valuation, less estimated residual value of each asset evenly over as described above.
This includes any award where non-vesting its expected useful life as follows: conditions within the control of the Group or the employee are Short leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease not met.
Freehold buildings and No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest except long leasehold land and buildings Over 10 to 100 years for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or Plant and equipment Over 3 to 15 years not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where an equity-settled are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised for the award is If any such indication exists the assets are written down to their recognised immediately.
Deferred tax Investments The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are shown at into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between cost less provision for impairment.
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Pension benefits Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences which have The Company is a member of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Except where operated by The Go-Ahead Group plc for the majority of its otherwise required by accounting standards, no timing differences employees.
This defined benefit scheme is a multi-employer scheme are recognised in respect of: for which the individual employers share of the underlying assets and property revaluation surpluses where there is no commitment to liabilities cannot be identified and accordingly the Company accounts sell the asset: for them as defined contribution schemes.
gains on sale of assets where those gains have been rolled over into replacement assets: deferred tax assets except to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
136 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Deferred tax is calculated at the enacted rates at which it is estimated For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains the tax will be payable.
The deferred tax provision is not discounted or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the to net present value.
profit and loss account as they arise.
Uninsured liabilities Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, The Company limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer and or otherwise no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point public liability claims through insurance policies issued by third parties.
in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument These provide individual claim cover, subject to high excess limits and recognised in other comprehensive income is kept in equity until an annual aggregate stop loss for total claims within the excess limits.
the forecast transaction occurs, at which point it is taken to the profit A provision is recognised for the estimated cost to the Company to and loss account or included in the initial carrying amount of the related settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date, non-financial asset as described above.
If a hedged transaction is no subject to the overall stop loss.
longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised The estimation of this provision is made after taking appropriate in other comprehensive income is transferred to the profit and professional advice and is based on an assessment of the expected loss account.
settlement on known claims, together with an estimate of settlements Leasing commitments that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but that have not yet been reported to the Company.
Leases where a significant portion of all the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Treasury shares Rentals payable under operating leases, and the amortisation of lease Re-acquired shares in the Company, which remain uncancelled, incentives and initial direct costs in securing leases, are charged to the are deducted from equity.
Consideration paid and the associated profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
costs are also recognised in shareholders funds as a separate reserve Debt for own shares.
Any gain or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Companys shares is transferred from the reserve Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being the for own shares to profit and loss.
fair value of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs.
Following initial recognition the carrying amount is measured at Financial assets amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortisation Financial assets are accounted for in accordance with FRS 26. of liabilities and any gains and losses arising on the repurchase, Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value, being the transaction settlement or other derecognition of debt are recognised directly price plus directly attributable transaction costs.
in the profit and loss account.
The Company uses energy derivatives to hedge its risks associated with fuel price fluctuations.
Such derivatives are initially recognised at fair value by reference to market values for similar instruments, and subsequently remeasured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cashflows are recognised in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
When the cashflow hedge results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a liability, then at the time that asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement of that non-financial asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
