Strategy and KPIs continued Group strategic principles To focus our operations in high density urban markets We focus our operations in high density urban markets, predominantly in Southern England, where there is strong demand for public transport.
3 2012 progress Bus division In the second half of the year we acquired four bus companies outside of London and one depot and associated routes in North London.
:e expect these acquisitions to contribute around 3m to bus profit in the full year to.
une 2013. :e have seen liOe-for-liOe passenger growth across all of our bus companies.
Rail division :e were delighted to be shortlisted for the ThameslinO rail franchise, due to be awarded in March 2013.
This will be the largest franchise in the 9K, expected to generate 1bn of revenue from 2015.
A permanent rail bid team was introduced during the year, bringing experience and expertise in house.
2013 priorities Bus Further strengthen our deregulated bus business through acquisitive growth.
SeeO expansion in our regulated bus business through additional contract wins and value adding acquisitions.
Rail Submit a strong bid for the ThameslinO franchise.
Assess all future franchise opportunities.
26 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2.1 4.2 3.2 2.6 5.4 2.8 2.3 3.2 2.9 2.9 29.3 3.5 37.2 0 3.3 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Our key performance indicators The following KPIs underpin our strategic principle to operate in predominantly high density urban markets.
Value adding Passenger journeys growth :e focus our operations in predominantly high acquisitions density urban marOets where there is strong demand :e are continually for public transport.
assessing acquisition opportunities in line with :hy its important, elps us to demonstrate that our strategy.
3pportunities our strategy of focusing our operations in urban areas are only pursued if we is effective.
3ur bus and rail passenger Nourneys have believe they will add value increased despite the challenging economic conditions.
In Deregulated bus passenger numbers increased by the year we acquired 2.8% and in rail, passenger numbers were up by 2.1%.
Passenger Nourneys also help us to measure against our commitment to provide a high quality service.
:hy its important Demonstrates our Aim To increase passenger Nourneys each year commitment to by providing a high quality service.
strengthening our position 2012 performance in the marOets in which Deregulated bus 2.8% we operate and helps Rail 2.1% us assess the value of our investment.
Aim Post tax operating profit from transactions to exceed our estimated ongoing post tax weighted average cost of capital of 8%.
2012 performance 29.3m was spent on acquisitions in the year, up 25.8m against the prior year.
