Corporate governance continued Nomination Committee Report This year the Committee has spent a considerable amount of time reviewing Board and Committee composition and succession planning.
This has been to ensure that we continue to have the appropriate range and balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge.
Meetings During the year the Committee met twice, excluding interviews with potential candidates and as part of its annual performance evaluation.
The Committee meets as needed to deal with necessary assignments and its responsibilities as listed below, in accordance with the needs of the Company and best practice in corporate governance.
Members individual attendance can be Sir Patrick Brown found on page 60.
Committee Chairman Key roles and responsibilities Key responsibilities of the Committee include leading the process for board appointments: Members making recommendations to the Board on the structure, size, and composition of the Board Sir Patrick Brown and its Committees: reviewing expected and actual time commitment of the Non-Executive Company Chairman Directors: succession planning: and, on appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, ensuring they receive a formal letter of appointment, including roles, responsibilities and expected Andrew Allner time commitment.
Senior Independent Director The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee are available on the corporate website at www.
com Katherine Innes Ker or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
Independent Non-Executive Director The Nomination Committees activities 2012 1 Nick Horler The main activities undertaken during the financial year included: Independent Non-Executive Director reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board including the balance of skills, David Brown knowledge and experience and the independence of the Non-Executive Directors: Group Chief Executive making recommendations to the Board, including the appointment of a new Senior 1.
Nick, orler replaced Rupert Pennant-Rea as an independent member of the Committee following Independent Director and independent Non-Executive Director: his appointment on 14 November 2011. recommending to the Board the membership and chairmanship of Committees, including Composition compliant with Provision the appointment of a new Chairman of the Remuneration Committee: and B.
2.1 of the Code reviewing the time requirements of the Non-Executive Directors and, using the performance evaluation process, assessing whether each Non-Executive Director has committed enough Committee Secretary time to fulll their duties: Carolyn Sephton Group Company Secretary considering the re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors at the end of their term of ofce and recommending to the Board the Directors for re-election by the shareholders: Meetings also regularly review of regulatory developments including making recommendations to the Board on the attended, by invitation, by: Groups policy on diversity in response to Lord Davies report.
Rupert Pennant-Rea Gender diversity Non-Executive Director Our Board currently has 14% female representation and including our Group Company Secretary, 25% female representation.
This is slightly less than disclosed last year 17% female representation and 28% including the Group Company Secretary because, although Nick, orler was appointed to replace Rupert Pennant-Rea as independent Non-Executive Director, Rupert Board gender diversity will continue to serve on the Board as a non-independent Non-Executive Director to provide continuity and support following the changes to the executive team last year.
Male Female The Board will aspire to maintain the current levels of gender diversity going forward, however, our foremost priority is to ensure that Go-Ahead continues to have the strongest possible leadership and we will appoint only the most appropriate candidates.
68 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
