Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2012 1.
Authorisation of financial statements The statement of changes in equity now presents for each and statement of compliance with IFRSs component of equity an analysis by item of other comprehensive income as required by an amendment to IAS 1 included in the The consolidated financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc Improvements to IFRSs issued in May 2010.
Adoption of the remaining the Group for the year ended 30 June 2012 were authorised for new standards and interpretations did not have a material impact on issue by the Board of Directors on 5 September 2012 and the balance the financial performance or position of the Group.
sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Sir Patrick Brown and Keith Down.
The Go-Ahead Group plc is a public limited company Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty that is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in England The preparation of the financial statements requires management and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are publicly traded on to make judgements, estimates and assumptions.
Although these the London Stock Exchange and it is not under the control of any judgements and estimates are based on managements best knowledge, single shareholder.
actual results ultimately may differ from these estimates.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been The following judgements apart from those involving estimates prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards have had the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the financial statements: consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 30 June 2012, and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Contract and franchise accounting Companies Act 2006.
The Group is required to comply with Judgements are made on an ongoing basis with regards to international accounting requirements under IAS 1 Presentation recoverability of amounts due and the carrying value of related assets of Financial Statements except in extremely rare circumstances and liabilities arising from contracts and franchises.
Regular forecasts where management concludes that compliance would be so misleading are compiled on the outcome of these contracts and franchise that it would conflict with the objective to present fairly its financial arrangements, which require assessments and judgements relating statements.
On that basis, the Group has departed from the to the expected level of revenues and costs and, in cases where requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits and has accounted for its options exist, the life of the contract or franchise.
constructive but not legal obligations for the Railways Pension Scheme Taxation RPS under the terms of its UK rail franchise agreements.
Details of Judgement is required when determining the provision for taxes the background and rationale for this departure are provided in as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot be fully determined note 28. until a formal resolution has been reached with the tax authorities.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the benefit 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies will be obtained.
Tax provisions are made if it is possible that a liability Basis of preparation will arise.
The Group reviews each significant tax liability or benefit to A summary of the Groups accounting policies applied in preparing assess the appropriate accounting treatment.
the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2012 are set out below.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling liabilities within the next financial year are in relation to: and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand 0.1m except when otherwise indicated.
the measurement and impairment testing of indefinite life intangible assets requires estimation of future cashflows and the selection of As noted above, the Group has taken the decision to depart a suitable discount rate and growth rate, as detailed in note 14: from the requirements of IAS 19 so as to present fairly its financial performance, position, and cashflows in respect of its obligation the measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires the for the RPS.
estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, the expected return on assets and the selection of a suitable discount rate, as set out in New standards note 28: The following new standards or interpretations are mandatory the measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an assessment of for the first time for the financial year ending 30 June 2012: the expected settlement of known claims and an estimate of the cost IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures revised of claims not yet reported to the Group, as detailed in note 25: and IFRS 7 Amendment Transfers of Financial Assets the measurement of franchise commitments, comprising dilapidation provisions on vehicles, depots and stations and also IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding income claims from other rail franchise operators, is based on requirement amendment managements assessment of most probable outcomes, supported Improvement to IFRSs May 2010 where appropriate by valuations from professional external advisers, as set out in note 25.
88 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Basis of consolidation Rental income The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements Rental income is generated from rental of surplus properties of The Go-Ahead Group plc and its subsidiaries as at 30 June 2012. and subleasing of rolling stock and railway infrastructure access.
It is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the Finance revenue date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The financial Interest on deposits is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the statements of subsidiaries for use in the consolidation are prepared principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
for the same reporting year as the parent company and are based Government grants on consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group balances and Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all transactions, have been eliminated in full.
attaching conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates Non-controlling interests represent the equity interests not held to an expense item, it is recognised in the income statement over by the Group in Govia Limited, a 65% owned subsidiary, and are the period necessary to match on a systematic basis to the costs presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to a from parent shareholders equity.
non-current asset, value is credited to a deferred income account and is released to the income statement over the expected useful Interest in joint ventures life of the relevant asset.
The Group has a contractual arrangement with another party which represents a joint venture.
This takes the form of an agreement to Uninsured liabilities share control over another entity, through an interest in a company The Group limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer and a jointly controlled entity.
The Group recognises its interest in the public liability claims through insurance policies issued by third parties.
entitys assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting.
These provide individual claim cover, subject to high excess limits and Under the equity method, the interest in the joint venture is carried an annual aggregate stop loss for total claims within the excess limits.
in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the A provision is recognised for the estimated cost to the Group to settle Groups share of its net assets, less distributions received and less claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date, subject any impairment in value of the investment.
The Group income to the overall stop loss.
statement reflects the share of the jointly controlled entitys results The estimation of this provision is made after taking appropriate after tax.
Where there has been a change recognised in other professional advice and is based on an assessment of the expected comprehensive income of the jointly controlled entity, the Group settlement on known claims, together with an estimate of settlements recognises its share of any such changes in the consolidated that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance statement of comprehensive income.
sheet date but that have not yet been reported to the Group by Revenue recognition the insurer.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the Franchise bid costs income will flow to the Group and the value can be reliably measured.
A key part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding for and Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, securing franchises to operate rail services in the UK.
All franchise bid excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes or duty.
costs incurred prior to achieving preferred bidder status are treated Rendering of services as an expense in the income statement irrespective of the ultimate The revenue of the Group comprises income from road passenger outcome of the bid.
Directly attributable, incremental costs incurred transport and rail passenger transport.
after achieving preferred bidder status are capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over the life of the franchise.
Bus revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket sales and revenue generated from services provided on behalf of local Profit and revenue sharing support agreements transport authorities.
The rail companies have certain revenue and, historically, profit sharing agreements with the DfT.
An accrual is made within amounts payable Rail revenue comprises amounts based principally on agreed models to central Government for the estimated cost to the Group of the of route usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited which administers relevant amounts accrued at the balance sheet date.
Payments are the income allocation system within the UK rail industry, in respect charged to operating costs.
of passenger receipts and other related services such as rolling stock maintenance and commission on tickets sold.
In addition, franchise Revenue support is provided by the DfT typically in the last two years subsidy receipts from the DfT and local Passenger Transport Executives of a franchise.
Receipts are shown in revenue.
PTEs are treated as revenue, whereas franchise premium payments Exceptional items to the DfT are recognised in operating costs.
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the statement those material items of revenue or expense which, because customers journey or for other services based on the proportion of of the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving services provided.
The attributable share of season ticket or travel rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow better understanding card income is deferred within liabilities and released to the income of financial performance.
statement over the life of the relevant season ticket or travel card.
com 89 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and Property, plant and equipment the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date transition to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any impairment fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree in value.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter assumed in exchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and of their expected useful lives and the lease terms.
liabilities assumed in transactions separate from the business combinations, Depreciation is charged to the income statement based on cost such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition or fair value, less estimated residual value of each asset, evenly over remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from the its expected useful life as follows: business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or Short leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease separability criterion, are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent Freehold buildings and Over 10 to 100 years liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisitionlong leasehold land and buildings date fair value can be measured reliably.
Bus vehicles Over 8 to 15 years If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest Plant and equipment Over 3 to 15 years and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisitionThe carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in acquiree is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business If any such indication exists the assets are written down to their acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated Non-current assets held for sale impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current to each of the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cash generating assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly units.
Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should monitored for internal management purposes and not be larger than be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one an operating segment before aggregation.
year from the date of classification.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of Business combinations and goodwill the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the a Business combinations since 4 July 2010 operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Business combinations since 4 July 2010 are accounted for under IFRS 3 Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the Business Combinations revised using the acquisition method.
The cost relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cashof an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration generating unit retained.
transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice b Business combinations prior to 4 July 2010 of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or at the Acquisitions of businesses since 3 July 2004 are accounted for under proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable assets is determined IFRS 3 Business Combinations using the purchase method.
Goodwill on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition costs incurred are on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the excess of the costs expensed and included in administrative expenses.
of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in meeting the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 at the acquisition accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and date.
It is capitalised and carried as an asset on the balance sheet.
If an pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation acquisition gives rise to negative goodwill, this is released immediately of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
Subsequent changes in the amount recognised for any contingent Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be consideration are accounted for as adjustments to the consideration recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the transferred in the business combination, with a corresponding adjustment fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset to goodwill.
or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit and loss or in other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally within equity.
90 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any Software accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment, Software, that is not integral to the related hardware, is capitalised annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances as an intangible asset and stated at cost less amortisation and any indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Any impairment impairment in value.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement is recognised immediately in the income statement and not evenly over its expected useful life of three to five years.
For the purposes of impairment testing, Inventories goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored Stocks of fuel and engineering spares are valued at the lower of cost by management.
Cost comprises direct materials and costs Impairment of assets incurred in bringing the items to their present location and condition.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less costs indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, of sale.
or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group Cash and cash equivalents makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount, being the higher Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash of the assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and at bank and in hand, and short term deposits with an original maturity its value in use.
Value in use is determined for an individual asset, of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cashflow unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, and the equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
estimated future cashflows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the Financial assets and derivatives time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Financial assets are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value, being the amount, the asset is considered to be impaired and is written down transaction price plus directly attributable transaction costs.
The Group uses energy derivatives to hedge its risks associated Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the with fuel price fluctuations and interest derivatives to hedge its risks income statement in those expense categories consistent with associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivatives are initially the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each recognised at fair value by reference to market values for similar reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously instruments, and subsequently re-measured at fair value at each recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have balance sheet date.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are designated estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed and effective as hedges of future cashflows are recognised in other only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss immediately in the income statement.
When the cashflow hedge was recognised.
results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a liability, then at the time that asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or The reinstated amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in other would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
After such a reversal of that non-financial asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic recognised in the income statement in the period in which the hedged basis over its remaining useful life.
item affects net profit or loss.
Franchise assets For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains Where the conditions relating to the award of a franchise require or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the the Group to assume legal responsibility for any pension liability income statement as they arise.
that exists at that point in time, the Group recognises a liability representing the fair value of the related net pension deficit that the Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires or Group expects to fund during the franchise term.
When a pension is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, deficit exists at the start of the franchise, a corresponding intangible or otherwise no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point asset is recognised, reflecting a cost in acquiring the right to operate in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument the franchise.
If a pension surplus exists at the start of the franchise, recognised in other comprehensive income is kept in equity until then a corresponding deferred income balance is recognised, the forecast transaction occurs, at which point it is taken to the representing a government grant.
The intangible asset or deferred income statement or included in the initial carrying amount of the income balance is amortised through the income statement on a related non-financial asset as described above.
If a hedged transaction straight-line basis over the period of the franchise.
is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the The carrying value of franchise assets is reviewed for impairment at income statement.
the end of the first financial year following the award of the franchise and in other periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
com 91 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Non-rail schemes Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit the fair value of the consideration received after deduction of issue method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period costs.
Following initial recognition the carrying amount is measured to determine current service cost and to the current and prior at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortisation periods to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation of liabilities and any gains and losses arising on the repurchase, and is based on actuarial advice.
The interest element of the defined settlement or other fide-recognition of debt, are recognised directly benefit cost represents the change in present value of obligations in the income statement.
during the period, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially account material changes in the obligation during the year.
The all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the Group, and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance the beginning of the year of long term market returns on scheme sheet, with a corresponding liability being recognised, and are assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives and the lease terms.
contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire The Group has applied the option under IAS 19 to recognise actuarial purchase contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
gains and losses in the statement of comprehensive income in the The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income period in which they occur.
statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts The difference between the expected return on plan assets and the and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital interest cost, along with the current service cost, is recognised in the repayments outstanding.
income statement within operating costs.
Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined Rentals payable under operating leases, and the amortisation of lease benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate incentives and initial direct costs in securing leases, are charged to the bonds, less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled Provisions directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and in the Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or case of quoted securities is the published bid price.
constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on a an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and straight-line basis over the vesting period or immediately if the benefits a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
If the effect is material, have vested.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations for benefits expected future cash flows are discounted using a current pre-tax already accrued or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, in future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain recovery is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is or loss recognised in the income statement during the period in which presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
Where the settlement or curtailment occurs.
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to unwinding Contributions payable under defined contribution schemes are the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
charged to operating costs in the income statement as they fall due.
Treasury shares Rail schemes Re-acquired shares in the Group, which remain uncancelled, are Our train operating companies participate in the RPS, a defined deducted from equity.
Consideration paid and the associated costs benefit scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry.
This are also recognised in shareholders funds as a separate reserve is partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding for own shares.
Any gain or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or of these schemes whilst it operates the relevant franchise.
In contrast cancellation of the Groups shares is transferred from the reserve to the pension schemes operated by most businesses, the RPS is a for own shares to revenue reserves.
shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee.
A liability or asset is recognised in line Retirement benefits with other defined benefit schemes in the Group, although this is offset The Group operates a number of pension schemes, both defined by a franchise adjustment so that the net liability or asset represents the benefit and defined contribution.
The costs of these are recognised deficit or surplus that the Group expects to fund or benefit from during in the income statement within operating costs.
As discussed below, the franchise term.
This represents a departure from IAS 19 so as to the Group has invoked the provisions of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial present fairly the Groups financial performance, position and cashflow Statements and has departed from the requirements of IAS 19 in in respect of its obligations for the RPS.
respect of the Rail Pension Schemes RPS.
92 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary Share-based payment transactions differences at the balance sheet date between the tax base of The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference assets and liabilities for taxation purposes and their carrying amounts to the fair value at the date at which they are granted, determined in the financial statements.
It is provided for on all temporary by an external valuation using an appropriate pricing model.
In granting differences, except: equity-settled options conditions are linked to some or all of the following: the price of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group plc on the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability market conditions : to conditions not related to performance or in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time service non-vesting conditions : and to earnings per share criteria.
of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over the period from grant to vesting date, being the date on which the relevant in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with employees become fully entitled to the award, with a corresponding investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal increase in equity.
The cumulative expense recognised at each of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is reporting date reflects the extent to which the period to vesting probable that the temporary differences will not reverse has expired and the Directors best estimate of the number in the foreseeable future.
of options that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is subject to a market or non-vesting condition, be treated as vesting probable that the temporary differences will be reversed in the as described above.
This includes any award where non-vesting foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available to allow all conditions within the control of the Group or the employee are or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest except and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or income tax asset to be utilised.
not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that Tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where an equity-settled is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date in correlation with the underlying transaction.
Otherwise, tax is of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised for the award recognised in the income statement.
Taxation Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
