Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: Other safeguards in place to reviewing the whistle blowing financial and Anti-Bribery procedures in place across ensure auditor independence: the Group: The Committee considers every improving the co-ordination between the internal and external auditors so as to increase relationship between the Group reliance on the internal audit work, improve efficiencies and reduce overall costs: and and the audit rm.
working with the Remuneration Committee, to review Executive Directors performance The Committee seeks periodic versus budget for performance related bonus purposes.
reassurance that the Auditor and Auditor independence their staff have no financial, business, The Board recognises the importance of auditor independence and is aware of the situations employment, family or other personal which may give rise to the impairment of auditor independence.
The Audit Committee carefully relationship with the Group which considers the objectivity of the Auditor on a regular basis in relation to both the audit process could affect their independence and the relationship with the Company.
Policy on the engagement of the Auditor for non-audit services The Committee seeks details In order to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence, the Committee has, as part of of policies and processes from their Terms of Reference, the following policy for the provision of non-audit services by the the Auditor regarding monitoring external Auditor.
compliance with APB Ethical Standards for Auditors: requirements that the Auditor will only be used for the provision of non-audit work if it can be regarding rotation of audit staff: demonstrated that the engagement will not impair independence, is a natural extension and maintaining independence.
of their audit work or there are other overriding reasons that make them the most suitably qualied to undertake the work: Any key audit partner of Ernst & that the Auditor will not provide certain categories of non-audit services to the Group, such Young LLP shall not be employed as internal audit, and litigation support: the full list of which can be found in the Committees by Group in a management position Terms of Reference: unless a period of two years has elapsed since the conclusion of the that the provision of certain non-audit services including accounting and tax services if the relevant audit.
fees exceed 250k are subject to approval by the Audit Committee: and The Auditor is required to periodically that the ratio of the external Auditors audit to non-audit fees during the year, as a proportion assess whether they are independent of the annual external audit fee, is kept under review by the Committee.
of the Group, in their own During the financial year, the principal external Auditors fees were 0.5m 2011: 0.6m.
addition non-audit fees of 0.5m 2011: 0.2m were payable to the Auditor.
In comparison, The Committee monitors the non-audit fees paid to other providers during the financial year were 0.3m 2011: 0.2m.
level of fees that the Group pays in Approval was given for the provision of taxation services and work on corporate finance proportion to the overall fee income projects and acquisitions where the Committee were satisfied that the external auditor was of the relevant audit rm branch.
able to provide better value for money without compromise to their independence.
Following audit partner rotation last As part of a value for money review several subsidiary companies appointed Grant Thornton year, the audit partner will serve as as their auditors.
Total fees to Grant Thornton during the financial year were 0.1m 2011: nil.
the Senior Statutory Auditor for five Grant Thornton received no non-audit fees 2011: nil.
years, subject to the Committees annual review, retiring by rotation Appointment, reappointment and removal of the Auditor before the 2015 16 audit.
The Committee has primary responsibility for recommending to the Board the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external Auditor and their remuneration.
During the year, There are no contractual obligations the Committee has reviewed the external Auditors terms of engagement and their level restricting the Groups choice of of remuneration.
auditors and no auditor liability agreement has been entered into.
The current EU proposals for mandatory audit rm rotation are being considered by the Audit Committee.
Whilst the audit partner within Ernst and Young has rotated every five years, in accordance with EU requirements, the Group has not tendered the provision of its audit services in recent years.
The Committee has carefully considered whether a tender for the external audit contract would be appropriate at this time, however, is satisfied with the objectivity and independence of the Auditor and has concluded that re-appointing Ernst & Young as the Groups Auditor will allow the quality and effectiveness of the external audit to be maintained.
The Auditor will be recommended to shareholders for reappointment at the 2012 AGM.
