Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Shareholder information Corporate website Shareholder security Our corporate website www.
com provides a wealth Shareholders are advised to be extremely cautious of any unsolicited of information on the Company and its activities.
Information available advice from third parties: offers to buy shares at a discount: or offers on the site includes half year results and interim management of free reports about the Company.
By law, the Companys register statements, which are not sent to shareholders, as well as share price of members is open to public inspection.
owever, we do not endorse data, dividend information and the financial calendar.
You can register any specic share dealing facilities: will not pass on shareholder to receive email alerts when the website has been updated with information to any third party: and any requests for access to the announcements, press releases and other publications.
register are subject to proper purpose requirements which ensure that personal data is not used unlawfully.
Managing your shares The Companys Registrar, Equiniti, is responsible for maintaining Shareholder prole by si e of holding as at 30 June 2012 our register of members.
Shareholders with queries relating to their No.
of shareholding should contact Equiniti directly using the details on holdings % Shares held % page 144.
co. uk and click on Register in the top left corner to sign up for these services.
When completing your details you No.
of holdings % Shares held % will need your shareholder reference number which is the eleven digit Treasury shares 1 0 3,902,230 8.3 number found on your latest tax voucher or share certicate.
Directors 3 0.1 11,334 0 Duplicate documents Other individuals 3,046 81.4 4,735,309 10.1 If you have more than one registered shareholder account, you Institutional investors 694 18.5 38,257,105 81.6 will receive duplicate documentation and split dividend payments.
Total 3,744 100 46,905,978 100 To request that your accounts be combined, please contact Equiniti.
It should be noted that many private investors hold their shares through Dividend payments nominee companies: therefore, the percentage of shares held by private The dividend dates are available on our corporate website in the holders is likely to be higher than that shown.
Following each dividend payment date we will send a tax voucher to your home address.
Please therefore ensure that Financial calendar Equiniti have your correct address and bank details.
Annual General Meeting 11 am, 25 October 2012 We recommend that you arrange for your dividends to be paid directly Final dividend record date 2 November 2012 into your bank account: Final dividend payment date 16 November 2012 to avoid the risk of losing a cheque in the post and thereby incurring Half year end 29 December 2012 a replacement fee Half year results announcement February 2013 for faster receipt of your dividend which is paid into your account Half year dividend payment April 2013 on the payment date, rather than waiting for a cheque to be delivered, deposited and cleared Next financial year end 29 June 2013 Full year results announcement September 2013 To select this method of dividend payment, please contact Equiniti.
Electronic communications As far as possible, the Company provides shareholder documents via the corporate website.
If you wish to receive future shareholder communications electronically, please sign up via Shareview details above.
By electing to receive shareholder communications electronically you will be allowing us to communicate with you securely in a more environmentally friendly and cost effective way.
