| Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 34 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational Risks continued Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls New channels to market franchising The Company has embarked upon a franchise Entering into franchising agreements allows us to reach both new and model to allow third parties to set up Greggs shops existing customers in an increasing number of locations.
This exposes Greggs to potential support is provided to the franchisee as well as regular audits to ensure damage to our brand in a small but growing brand standards continue to be maintained.
Exposure to franchising proportion of shops if they fail to meet our standards is also limited to an agreed proportion of the Companys turnover.
with regards to hygiene, customer service, product quality, etc.
Status: Unchanged New channels to market wholesaling We are now supplying a frozen food retailer with The impact of wholesaling frozen savouries upon the sale of savouries Greggs branded savouries, thus exposing the in our own shops is constantly monitored with an acceptable level Company to the potential risk of cannibalising defined.
Any cannibalisation is relatively small and well within the sales of savouries in our retail estate.
Status: Unchanged IT and change management The operational risks of increasing investment in, Safeguards and contingencies are in place to support IT systems and and reliance upon, the information technology there is continued re-investment in updating the Companys technology.
Whether that be The effectiveness of new systems is monitored using a range of the cost and disruption caused by a systems failure techniques to assess the return on investment.
A full review and or an investment not delivering the improvements assessment of current business processes and systems suitability or return on investment expected.
Additionally a is being undertaken to ensure that they meet the developing needs number of our business processes and systems of the business.
will require investment in the near future in order to improve the service to our increasingly centralised business model.
Status: Increasing Regulatory Risks Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls Health and safety A health and safety accident or incident could lead The Company has functioning health and safety policies and procedures to serious illness, injury or even loss of life for one throughout the business.
The operation of these is subject to regular or more of the Companys employees or customers.
Status: Unchanged Legal Greggs could be exposed to adverse regulatory risk The Company takes advice where it is considered appropriate and including tax, environmental, planning, employment monitors new legislative developments through our membership of the and food safety laws which could increase the cost CBI, British Retail Consortium and others, such that we can plan to give base and reduce flexibility.
effect to new laws as and when they are adopted.
