Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 35 Data protection Information is increasingly gathered through Only relevant customer information is held and for no longer than is customer loyalty schemes, card transactions and necessary.
Furthermore customers are made aware of what data we more involvement with customers through digital gather.
Formal and documented policies and procedures are in place means, e. g. social media, resulting in an increased regarding the handling of card payment data, ensuring compliance with risk regarding data protection.
PCI standards in order to meet annual PCI assessment.
Also, we continue Status: Increasing to refine an IT information security strategy.
Financial risks Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls Liquidity The Company is reliant on our cash sales to meet If a significant business interruption should occur we would draw on cash short-term payment requirements as we operate and borrowing facilities to meet working capital requirements.
This would with net current liabilities.
include deferring capital expenditure in order to maximise cash flow.
Status: Unchanged Ability to finance growth plan The Company may not be able to generate sufficient The Company finances most of its capital expenditure using cash financial resources to enable it to implement fully its generated by its commercial operations and has no debt currently.
The Company plans to put in place limited further financing facilities Status: Unchanged to ensure that it can finance its growth plan.
Defined Benefit Pension Scheme The Company has a potential liability under this The scheme is closed to new members and to future accrual of benefits.
The funding level of the scheme is sensitive We continue to work closely with the Trustee of the scheme to manage to the risk of changes in key assumptions such long-term funding requirements.
as life expectancy, price inflation and asset returns.
Changes in these assumptions could lead to volatility in the liability or surplus recognised on the balance sheet.
Status: Unchanged Price inflation Significant changes in the cost of raw materials, To mitigate this risk, agreements with suppliers fix the price of key input wages overheads and utilities could have an adverse costs in the short, medium and long term where appropriate.
This reduces effect upon the margins and or customer value, volatility and allows the Company to plan for costs with greater certainty.
impacting the Companys financial performance.
Pricing strategies for our products also allow for adjustment based on Status: Unchanged external costs.
Furthermore, investment in new plants and processes increases efficiencies thereby reducing costs.
