Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 27 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION of that share in certain circumstances Substantial shareholdings if any call or other sum is payable and At 20 March 2013 the only notified Fixed assets remains unpaid, if the shareholder is in holdings of substantial voting rights In the opinion of the Directors, the default in complying with a duly served in respect of the issued share capital aggregate market value of the Groups notice under section 793 1 of the of the Company which may have properties is not significantly different Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 or if the altered since the date of such notification, from their historical net book amount.
shareholder has failed to reply to a duly without any requirement for the Company served notice requiring him to provide to have been informed were: Authority to purchase shares a written statement stating he is the At the AGM on 16 May 2012, the Number of Percentage beneficial owner of shares.
shareholders passed a resolution shares of issued share t A notice convening a general meeting held capital authorising the purchase by the Company can contain a statement that a shareholder Troy Asset of its own shares to a maximum of is not entitled to attend and vote at a Management 5,220,667 5.16% ordinary shares of 2p each.
general meeting unless his name is Templeton entered on the register of members of That authority had not been used as Investment the Company at a specific time not at 29 December 2012.
Counsel LLC 5,059,689 5.0% more than 48 hours before the meeting NorgesBank 3,102,084 3.07% and if a shareholders name is not so The authority remains in force until the entered he is not entitled to attend conclusion of the AGM in 2013 or 15 and vote.
Accountability, audit and going concern August 2013, whichever is the earlier.
t Under the Companys articles of The Board acknowledges its responsibility It is the Boards intention to seek approval association the Directors may, in their to present a balanced and understandable at the 2013 AGM for the renewal of absolute discretion, refuse to register assessment of the Companys position and this authority.
the transfer of a share in certified form prospects.
This is fulfilled by the statements in certain circumstances where the contained in the Chairmans statement, Takeover Directive information Company has a lien on the share Chief Executives report and the Financial Following the implementation of the provided that the Directors do not Review which supplement the statutory European Directive on Takeover Bids by exercise their discretion so as to prevent accounts themselves.
A statement of certain provisions of the Companies Act dealings in partly paid shares from Directors responsibilities in respect of the 2006, the Company is required to disclose taking place on an open and proper preparation of accounts is given on page 52. certain additional information in the basis, where a shareholder has failed A statement of auditors responsibilities is Directors Report.
This information to reply to a duly served notice under given in the report of the auditor on page 53. is set out below.
section 793 1 CA 2006 or if a transfer of a share is in favour of more than four After making enquiries, the Directors have t The Company has one class of share persons jointly.
In addition, the Directors a reasonable expectation that the Group in issue being ordinary shares of 2p may decline to recognise any has adequate resources to continue in each.
As at 20 March 2013, there were instrument of transfer unless it is in operational existence for the foreseeable 101,155,901 such ordinary shares respect of only one class of share and future.
For this reason, they continue to in issue.
There are no shares in the is deposited at the address at which adopt the going concern basis in preparing Company that grant the holder the register of members of the Company the accounts see basis of preparation special rights with regard to control is held or at such other place as the on page 59. of the Company.
directors may determine accompanied t At general meetings of the Company, by the relevant share certificate s and Disclosure of information to the auditor on a show of hands every shareholder such other evidence as the Directors Each of the Directors who held office at present in person or by proxy has one may reasonably require to show the the date of approval of this Directors report vote only and, in the case of a poll, right of the transferor to make the confirms that, so far as they are individually every shareholder present in person or transfer.
In respect of shares held in aware, there is no relevant audit information by proxy has one vote for every share in uncertificated form the Directors may of which the Companys auditor is the capital of the Company held by him.
only refuse to register transfers unaware: and that they have taken all the t The Companys articles of association in accordance with the Uncertificated steps that they ought to have taken as a set out the circumstances in which Securities Regulations 2001 director to make themselves aware of any shares may become disenfranchised.
as amended from time to time.
relevant audit information and to establish No shareholder is entitled, unless t Under the Companys code on that the Companys auditor is aware of that the Directors otherwise determine, dealings in securities in the Company, information.
in respect of any share held by him to persons discharging managerial be present or vote at a general meeting responsibilities and some other senior either personally or by proxy or to executives may in certain circumstances exercise any other right in relation to be restricted as to when they can meetings of the Company in respect transfer shares in the Company.
