Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 59 Notes to the consolidated accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2012 2011: 52 weeks ended 31 December 2011 Significant accounting policies Greggs plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The Group accounts consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Parent Company accounts present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The accounts were authorised for issue by the Directors on 20 March 2013. a Statement of compliance Both the Parent Company accounts and the Group accounts have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
On publishing the Parent Company accounts here together with the Group accounts, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved accounts.
b Basis of preparation The accounts are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand, and are prepared on the historical cost basis except the defined benefit pension liability, which is recognised as plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Directors report and business review on pages 6 to 36.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Financial Review on pages 14 and 15.
In addition Note 2 to the accounts includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources and the business continues to be strongly cash generative.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risk successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
The Group chose not to restate business combinations prior to the IFRS transition date 1 January 2004, as no significant acquisitions had taken place during the previous ten years.
The Groups policy up to and including 1997 was to eliminate goodwill arising upon acquisitions against reserves.
Under IFRS 1 and IFRS 3, such goodwill remains eliminated against reserves.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the Group and to all years presented in these consolidated accounts and are unchanged from previous years.
From 1 January 2012 the following standards, amendments and interpretations became effective and were adopted by the Group: t Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets.
t Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets.
t Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income.
t Amendments to IFRS 1 Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters.
The adoption of the above has not had a significant impact on the Groups profit for the year or equity.
The preparation of financial information in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year, or in the year of revision and future years if the revision affects both current and future years.
