| Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 64 Notes to the consolidated accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2012 2011: 52 weeks ended 31 December 2011 continued Significant accounting policies continued t Amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures mandatory for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2014. t IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities mandatory for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2014. t IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement mandatory for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013. t Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits mandatory for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013. t Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities mandatory for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013. t Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities mandatory for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2014.
None of these standards and amendments is expected to have a significant impact on the accounts when they are adopted except for amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The amendments to IAS 19 will be adopted for the financial year ending 28 December 2013 and the results for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2012 will be restated.
The impact on the results for 2012 will be a reduction in pre-tax profit of 949,000 and an increase in actuarial gains in other comprehensive income by the same amount.
There will be no impact on total equity.
The impact on the results for 2013 is not expected to be materially different to that in 2012.
In 2013 it is possible that the Groups wholesaling and franchising business will be disclosed as a separate reportable segment under IFRS 8.
Whilst not sufficiently material at present, at current growth rates we expect this business to exceed the quantitive thresholds in IFRS 8 in the short to medium term.
Segmental analysis The Board is considered to be the chief operating decision maker of the Group in the context of the IFRS 8 definition.
The information which is reviewed by the Board for the purposes of assessing financial performance and allocating resources comprises the profit and loss account for the Company as a whole.
The Group is a centrally managed business with an integrated supply chain.
There are seven retail regions, each reporting to the Group Retail Director.
The business performance is assessed after allocation of supply chain costs to the retail regions.
These retail regions have similar economic characteristics, products, customers and production and distribution methods and have therefore been aggregated into a single reportable segment.
The segment results, as reported to the chief operating decision maker, are calculated under the principles of IFRS.
The new wholesale and franchising business comprises a new operating segment focused on sales to businesses rather than direct to the consumer.
Its results however, are not sufficiently material currently to be a Reportable segment under IFRS 8.
Products and services the Group sells a consistent range of fresh bakery goods, sandwiches and drinks in its shops.
The Group now also provides frozen bakery products to its wholesale customers.
Major customers the majority of sales are made to the general public on a cash basis.
A small proportion of sales are made on credit to certain organisations, including wholesale customers, but these are immaterial in a Group context.
Geographical areas all results arise in the UK.
The Board has carefully considered the requirements of IFRS 8 and concluded that, as there is only one reportable segment whose revenue, profits, assets and liabilities are measured and reported on a consistent basis with the Group accounts no additional numerical disclosures are necessary.
Financial risk management Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Retail sales represent a large proportion of the Groups sales and present no credit risk as they are made for cash.
Where credit sales are concerned the Group operates effective credit control procedures in order to minimise exposure to overdue debts.
Counterparty risk is also considered low.
All of the Groups surplus cash is held with highly rated banks, in line with Group policy.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
