| Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 60 Notes to the consolidated accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2012 2011: 52 weeks ended 31 December 2011 continued Significant accounting policies continued The key estimates and judgements that have the most significant impact on the accounts are as follows: Post retirement benefits The determination of the defined benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme depends on the selection of certain assumptions including the discount rate, inflation rate, mortality rates and expected return on scheme assets.
Differences arising from actual experience or future changes in assumptions will be reflected in future years.
The key assumptions made for 2012 are given in Note 20.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
For example, bakery equipment may be impaired if it is no longer in use and or shop fittings may be impaired if sales in that shop fall.
When a review for impairment is conducted the recoverable amount is determined based on value in use calculations which include managements estimates of future cash flows generated by the assets and an appropriate discount rate.
A 1% change in the discount rate would result in a 10,000 change in the impairment charge.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Depreciation is provided so as to write down the assets to the residual values over their estimated useful lives, both of which require managements judgement see accounting policy g. Provisions Provision is required in respect of vacated properties and properties which the Group has committed to vacate and for which the Group has on-going lease commitments.
Management exercise judgement as to whether the property will be sublet to a third party taking into account current market conditions and, if so, for how long and at what rent, in order to estimate the future net holding cost to the Group until the lease can be exited.
This estimate is then discounted where the impact would be material at a rate that reflects the current time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
In respect of our exit from the Belgian operation in 2008 a provision remains for the potential recourse of leases taken over by the new owner.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts include the results of Greggs plc and its subsidiary undertakings for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2012.
The comparative period is the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2011. i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists where the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The accounts of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated accounts from the date control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated accounts.
d Exceptional items Exceptional items are defined as items of income and expenditure which are material and unusual in nature and which are considered to be of such significance that they require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement in accordance with IAS 1. e Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
f Intangible assets The Groups only intangible asset is accounting software which is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Amortisation is recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the date that they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are five years.
