Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 33 Operational Risks Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls Product quality and safety The Company produces and sells a wide range We have in place detailed procedures regarding product quality and safety of products.
If these are not of consistent high and these are subject to regular audits.
Furthermore, new facilities help standard, or contain out of date ingredients, the maintain high quality standards.
Company could be exposed to significant food safety issues.
This could have a detrimental impact on consumer confidence and our revenue.
Status: Unchanged Disruption to production A major incident leads to the loss of a key We have detailed disaster recovery and business continuity plans which production facility, potentially leading to a significant include potential alternative sources of supply.
These measures are loss of capacity and disruption of supply to our regularly tested and revised to ensure they are fit for purpose.
A fire in a shops with a resultant impact on revenue.
control panel at our Balliol savoury production facility in September 2012 Status: Unchanged caused a temporary cessation of production.
We were able to deploy our contingency plan to minimise disruption to production.
Food scare A major food scare beyond the control of the We make the majority of the products we sell ourselves and take care to Company could result in a disruption in ingredient validate the integrity of the ingredients that we use.
We continue to monitor supply or a general consumer boycott of national and worldwide developments in food provenance.
have close dialogue with Government, other UK agencies and relevant Status: Increasing stakeholders.
Disruption to external supply chain Being dependent upon key suppliers could We either have several sources of supply or a documented and tested lead to a situation where we are unable to alternative supply strategy for our key raw materials.
Status: Unchanged Reputation Risk of damage to the Companys brand Our Operating Board, Risk Committee and Social Responsibility Steering and reputation as a result of not meeting high Group regularly review and monitor our operations, identifying potentially production, safety, social, environmental and brand-damaging risks and developing mitigation plans.
All of our products ethical standards throughout all operations.
are subjected to rigorous quality checks and audit.
Incidents can be The Company must be able to respond quickly responded to in an appropriate and timely manner using the Crisis and effectively to any issues and adverse publicity Management process that is in place and we retain public relations perceptions regarding the above.
consultants to advise and assist with any issues being debated in the Status: Unchanged public arena.
