Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 61 g Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy k. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
ii Subsequent costs The cost of replacing a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the component will flow to the Group, and its costs can be measured reliably.
The carrying value of the replaced component is derecognised.
The costs of the day to day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
iii Depreciation Depreciation is provided so as to write off the cost less residual value of each item of property, plant and equipment during its expected useful life using the straight line method over the following periods: Freehold and long leasehold buildings 40 years Short leasehold properties 10 years or length of lease if shorter Plant, machinery, equipment, vehicles, fixtures and fittings 3 to 10 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values if not insignificant are reassessed annually.
iv Assets in the course of construction Depreciation on these assets commences when the assets are available for use.
h Investments Non-current investments comprise investments in subsidiaries which are carried at cost less impairment.
Current investments comprise fixed term fixed-rate bank deposits where the term is greater than three months.
i Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of inventories includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and direct production labour costs.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
k Impairment The carrying amounts of the Group and Companys assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Impairment reviews are carried out on an individual shop basis unless there are a number of shops in the same location, in which case the impairment review is based on the location.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in prior years are assessed at each reporting date and reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
l Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use are classified as held for sale.
Immediately before classification as held for sale, the assets are remeasured in accordance with the Group and Companys accounting policies.
Thereafter generally the assets are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
