Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 63 q Revenue i Retail sales Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised as income on receipt of cash and is stated after deduction of discounts, promotions and value added taxation.
ii Wholesale sales Wholesales sales, including sales to franchise outlets, are recognised when goods are dispatched to customers.
r Government grants Government grants are recognised in the balance sheet initially as deferred income when there is a reasonable assurance that they will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them.
Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised in the income statement on a systematic basis in the same periods in which the expenses are incurred.
Grants that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement over the useful life of the asset.
s Expenses i Operating lease payments Payments under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over the term of the lease.
t Finance income and expense i Finance income Finance income comprises interest receivable on cash balances and foreign exchange movements relating to overseas bank accounts.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues using the effective interest method.
ii Finance expenses Finance expenses comprise interest payable on borrowings and related foreign exchange movements on any Euro bank borrowings.
u Income tax Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax recognised is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related deferred tax benefit will be realised.
v Research and development The Company continuously strives to improve its products and processes through technical and other innovation.
Such expenditure is typically expensed to the income statement as the related intellectual property is not capable of being formalised and does not always have distinguishable research and development phases.
w IFRSs available for early adoption not yet applied The following standards and amendments to standards which will be relevant to the Group, were available for early adoption but have not been applied in these accounts: t IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements mandatory for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2014. t IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements mandatory for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2014. t IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements mandatory for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2014.
