| Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 28 Governance continued t There are no agreements between t Under the CA 2006 and the Companys Disabled employees shareholders known to the Company articles of association, the Directors Applications for employment of disabled which may result in restrictions on the powers include the power to allot persons are always fully considered, transfer of shares or on voting rights.
and buyback shares in the Company.
bearing in mind the aptitudes of the t Details of the significant holders of At each Annual General Meeting, applicant concerned.
In the event of the Companys shares are set out resolutions are proposed granting and members of staff becoming disabled on page 27. setting out the limits on these powers.
every effort is made to ensure that t Where, under an employee share plan t The Company is not party to any their employment within the Company operated by the Company, participants significant agreements which take continues and that appropriate training is are the beneficial owners of shares but effect, alter or terminate upon a change arranged.
It is the policy of the Company not the registered owner, the voting of control of the Company, following that the training, career development and rights are normally exercised by the a takeover bid.
promotion of disabled persons should, registered owner at the direction of t There are no agreements between as far as possible, be identical to that of the participant.
the Company and its Directors or other employees.
t The Companys articles of association employees providing for compensation may only be amended by special for loss of office or employment Significant relationships resolution at a general meeting of the whether through resignation, purported The Group does not have any contractual shareholders.
redundancy or otherwise that occurs or other relationships with any single party t The Companys articles of association because of a takeover bid.
Details of the which are essential to the business of the set out how Directors are appointed and Directors service agreements and terms Group and, therefore, no such replaced.
Directors can be appointed of appointment are set out in the Directors relationships have been disclosed.
by the Board or by the shareholders Remuneration Report on pages 37 to in a general meeting.
However, provisions in the employee By order of the Board General Meeting, any Director share plans operated by the Company appointed by the Board since the last may allow options to be exercised on Annual General Meeting must retire a takeover.
Jonathan D Jowett from office but is eligible for re-election Company Secretary by the shareholders.
Furthermore, the Payments to suppliers Greggs plc CRN 502851 Board has resolved that, in line with Good relationships with our suppliers are Fernwood House Governance Code provision B.
7.1, all an important factor in the success of the Clayton Road of the Directors will be subject to annual Group.
Payments to suppliers are made in Jesmond re-election by shareholders.
Under the accordance with the Groups normal terms Newcastle upon Tyne CA 2006 and the Companys articles of and conditions of business except where NE2 1TL association, a Director can be removed varied terms and conditions are agreed 20 March 2013 from office by the shareholders in a with individual suppliers, in which case general meeting.
Where disputes arise, attempts t The Companys articles of association are made to resolve them promptly and set out the powers of the Directors.
amicably to ensure delays in payment The business of the Company is to be are kept to a minimum.
managed by the Directors who may exercise all the powers of the Company The average creditor payment period and do on behalf of the Company all for the Company and the Group at such acts as may be exercised and 29 December 2012 was 37 days done by the Company and are not 2011: 41 days.
by any relevant statutes or by the Companys articles of association required to be exercised or done by the Company in general meeting, subject to the provisions of any relevant statutes and the Companys articles of association and to such regulations as may be prescribed by the Company by special resolution.
