| Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 32 Principal risks and uncertainties The Companys internal system of control covers all aspects of the business and reviewing the effectiveness of this system is ultimately the responsibility of the Board of Directors.
However, any such system can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys objectives and therefore is only able to provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The current principal risks and uncertainties for our business are as follows: Market and Economic Risks Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls Economic uncertainty The risk relates to the effect of continued economic We are committed to maintaining the value of our offer and are working uncertainty in the UK and beyond and austerity to find the most effective ways to communicate this to customers.
Activity measures taken by the Government on consumer also includes refitting shops to ensure they offer a retail environment of confidence and consumer spend.
This could have choice for customers, finding new locations to serve more customers a detrimental effect on the Companys revenues.
and developing our range of products to meet consumer demands.
Status: Unchanged Decline in high street footfall Social trends and the current economic environment We continue to diversify our estate with the majority of new shop openings have resulted in the continued decline of some high located in areas away from high streets, e. g. out of town centres, where streets across the United Kingdom, as consumers people work and where they travel to work.
favour alternatives, e. g. out of town centres and the internet.
Status: Increasing Consumer tastes and trends Customer tastes and trends are constantly changing We conduct regular research into consumer tastes and develop our and popular opinion is influenced by factors such as product range to meet current trends.
We also monitor changes in and government announcements and campaigns aimed the performance of our competitors.
We recognise the link between a at reducing obesity and improving the health of the balanced diet and a healthy lifestyle and therefore provide nutritional nation as well as scientific research.
The Company information at point of sale, on packaging and on our website to allow could lose market share if our products do not keep customers to make an informed choice.
up with these tastes and trends with regards to healthy eating, etc.
Status: Unchanged Sales and margins Pricing and promotional activities are continually monitored to assess This risk factor considers the possible impact of pricing and promotional activity upon sales and effectiveness and to ensure investment delivers the desired return.
margins whether that be having a detrimental The Company remains flexible in terms of ability to adjust prices and effect or failing to deliver the benefits expected.
promotions to ensure we retain both market share and profitability.
The Company must be able to react to customer trends and economic conditions effectively.
