oTHer sTATUTorY iNforMATioN coNTiNUed The only significant agreement, in terms of its likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole, containing such provisions is that governing the 260m syndicated revolving credit facility which, if within 10 days of a change of control notice to the Loan agent, can result in 30 days notice being given to the Company by any Lender, for all amounts outstanding to that Lender, to be immediately due and payable, at which time the commitment of that Lender will be cancelled.
If all of the Lenders give this notice the whole facility would be cancelled.
The Group has contractual arrangements with a wide range of suppliers.
The Group is not unduly dependent upon contractual arrangements with any particular customer.
Whilst the loss or disruption to certain of these arrangements could temporarily affect the Groups business, none is considered to be essential.
The Companys share plans contain provisions as a result of which options and awards may vest and become exercisable on a change of control of the Company in accordance with the rules of the plans.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Allotment authority Under the Companies Act 2006 the Directors may only allot shares if authorised by shareholders to do so.
At the Annual General Meeting an ordinary resolution will be proposed which, if passed, will authorise the Directors to allot and issue new shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 12,500,000 up to 125,000,000 new ordinary shares of 10p each, being just less than one-third of the issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at 13 June 2012 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting.
In accordance with the Directors stated intention to seek annual renewal, the authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2013.
Passing this resolution will give the Directors flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, when opportunities arise, by issuing new shares.
As at 13 June 2012 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting, the Company had 378,555,028 ordinary shares of 10p each in issue of which 1,396,240 were held as treasury shares, which is equal to approximately 0.4% of the issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at that date.
The Companies Act 2006 also requires that, if the Company issues new shares for cash or sells any treasury shares, it must first offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their current holdings.
At the Annual General Meeting a special resolution will be proposed which, if passed, will authorise the Directors to issue a limited number of shares for cash and or sell treasury shares without offering them to shareholders first.
The authority is for an aggregate nominal amount of up to 5% of the aggregate nominal value of the issued share capital of the Company as at 13 June 2012 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting.
The resolution will also modify statutory pre-emption rights to deal with legal, regulatory or practical problems that may arise on a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer or issue.
The authority will expire at the same time as the resolution conferring authority on the Directors to allot shares.
The Directors consider this authority necessary in order to give them flexibility to deal with opportunities as they arise, subject to the restrictions contained in the resolution.
There are no present plans to issue shares, except under share plans previously approved in general meeting.
directors The names of the Directors of the Company who served throughout the year including brief biographies, are set out on pages 68 and 69. directors indemnities The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each of the current Directors, which remain in force at the date of this report.
These are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
Purchase of the companys own shares The Company was authorised at the 2011 Annual General Meeting to purchase up to 37,600,000 of its own 10p ordinary shares in the market.
This authority expires at the end of the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Directors stated intention to seek annual renewal, a special resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to renew this authority, until the end of next years Annual General Meeting, in respect of up to 37,800,000 ordinary shares, which is approximately 10% of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares as at 13 June 2012 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting.
The Directors consider it desirable that the possibility of making such purchases, under appropriate circumstances, is available.
Their present intention is that the shares purchased under the authority will be held in treasury for future cancellation, sale for cash or transfer for the purposes of, or pursuant to, an employee share plan, although in the light of circumstances at the time it may be decided to cancel them immediately on repurchase.
The effect of any cancellation would be to reduce the number of shares in issue.
For most purposes, while held in treasury, shares are treated as if they have been cancelled for example, they carry no voting rights and do not rank for dividends.
Following approval of the Performance Share Plan PSP at the 2005 Annual General Meeting, the Directors made, and intend to continue to make, routine purchases of Halma shares in the market for holding in treasury until required for vesting under the PSP.
In the year to 31 March 2012, 1,070,579 shares, with a nominal value of 107,057.90, which is 0.3% of the Companys issued share capital as at 13 June 2012 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting, were purchased in the market for treasury.
Otherwise, the Directors have no present intention of using this authority.
In reaching a decision to purchase shares, the Directors will take into account the Companys cash resources, capital requirements and the effect of any purchase on the Companys earnings per share.
It is anticipated that renewal of the authority will be requested at subsequent annual general meetings.
As at 13 June 2012, which is the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting, options were outstanding to subscribe for a total number of 2,160,900 ordinary shares, or 0.6% of the Companys issued share capital.
If the proposed authority were to be used in full and all of the repurchased shares were cancelled but the Companys issued share capital otherwise remained unaltered, the total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares at that date would represent approximately 0.6% of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
88 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
