HERITAGE OIL PLC Financial Statements 2012 16 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 REPORTING ENTITY debt and additional equity.
Accordingly, the Group has a number of Heritage Oil Plc the Company was incorporated under the Jersey different sources of finance available and the Directors are confident Companies Law on 6 February 2008 as Heritage Oil Limited.
The that additional finance will be raised as and when needed.
Company changed its name to Heritage Oil Plc on 18 June 2009.
Its primary business activity is the exploration, development and The Groups activities are described in the Annual Review.
The production of petroleum and natural gas in Africa, the Middle East financial position of the Group, its cash ows and liquidity position and Russia.
The Company was established in order to implement a are described in the financial review and financial statements within corporate reorganisation of HOC.
In addition, the notes to the financial statements include the Groups policies and processes for These consolidated financial statements include the results of the managing its capital and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
Company and all subsidiaries over which the Company exercises Having reviewed the future plans and projections for the Group and control.
The Company together with its subsidiaries are referred to as its current financial position, the Directors believe it to be the Group.
The key subsidiaries consolidated within these financial appropriate for the financial statements to have been prepared on a statements include inter alia Heritage Oil Corporation, Heritage Oil & going concern basis.
In making this assessment they have considered the Company and Group budgets, the cash ow forecasts and Gas Limited, Heritage Oil and Gas U Limited, Heritage Energy Middle East Limited, Heritage DRC Limited, Coatbridge Estates reviewed the availability of banking facilities.
Limited, ChumpassNefteDobycha, Neftyanaya Geologicheskaya Kompaniya, Heritage Mali Block 7 Limited, Heritage Mali Block 11 In reaching this conclusion, the Directors have considered the Limited, Begal Air Limited, Heritage Oil & Gas Holdings Limited, following factor in particular.
Eagle Drill Limited, Heritage Oil International Malta Limited, 1381890 Alberta ULC, Heritage Oil Cooperatief U.
A, Heritage Oil Renancing of Shoreline Holdings Limited, Darwin Air Limited, Heritage Tanzania KimbijiShorelines purchase of the Acquisition Assets was in part funded by Latham Limited, Heritage Oil Tanzania Limited, Heritage Oil UK a $550 million bridge facility arranged by Standard Bank Plc which Limited, Heritage Rukwa TZ Limited, Heritage Energy Limited, expires no later than 29 December 2013.
At the time of the Heritage Energy International Limited, Sahara Oil Services Limited, acquisition Standard Bank Plc agreed, subject to a number of Sahara Oil Services Holdings Limited, and Heritage Oil SNR substantive conditions, to renance this into a long term loan.
Discussions have progressed well with Standard Bank Plc and the other banks in the lending syndicate and terms for a five-year The financial statements were approved by the Board and authorised borrowing base loan initially of $550 million have been agreed for issuance on 29 April 2013. subject inter alia to nalisation of documentation and credit committee approval.
The Directors are confident that this 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES renancing will take place before the bridge loan expires on 29 The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these December 2013 though there can be no certainty of this.
Upon consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies completion of the renancing, the amount of $101 million currently have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless deposited as security for the bridge facility will be released to the otherwise stated.
Group.. Based on forecasts for a period in excess of 12 months, the Group would have sufficient funds to finance its activities well into A BASIS OF PREPARATION 2014 even taking account of an adverse outcome in the Uganda tax The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in dispute as described in note 6. accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
In the very unlikely event that the renancing does not complete and The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the alternative nancing for Shoreline is not forthcoming, and assuming historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of certain that the Uganda tax dispute has not been resolved in the Groups financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
favour resulting in the return of a significant amount of cash see note 6, the Group may not have sufficient cash available to complete its The Companys consolidated financial statements are presented in work programme and meet its expenditure for the foreseeable future thousand US dollars unless otherwise stated.
US dollars are the and could need to raise funds to continue its activities by early 2014 Companys functional and presentation currency.
In these circumstances the directors would consider all available alternatives including the sale or farm down of oil and gas The Group had available cash of $90 million at 31 December 2012, properties, the sale of other assets and the raising of debt and or excluding amounts related to the tax dispute with the Ugandan equity finance by Heritage.
There can be no guarantee that any of government and amounts held in restricted cash for the Acquisition.
these actions would succeed or that they would raise sufficient funds Based on its current plans and knowledge, its projected capital to allow Shoreline to be renanced.
expenditure and operating cash requirements, the Group has sufficient cash to finance its operations for more than 12 months from the date of The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to this report.
As for most oil and gas exploration companies, Heritage affect its future development, performance and position are set out in raises nancing for its activities from time to time using a variety of the Annual Review on pages 16 to 34.
The financial position of the sources.
Sources of funding for future exploration and development Group, its cash ows and liquidity position are described in the programmes will be derived from inter alia disposal proceeds from the Financial Review on pages 2 to 7 of this report.
In addition, note 3 of sale of assets, such as the disposal ofits interest in the MiranPSC in the financial statements includes the Groups policies and processes for 2012 and its disposal of the Ugandan Assets in 2010 note 6, using its managing its capital: its financial risk management: and its exposure to existing treasury resources, new credit facilities, reinvesting its funds foreign exchange risk, commodity price risk, credit risk and liquidity from operations, farm-outs and, when considered appropriate, issuing risk.
