HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 38 APPENDIX 2 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE As a Premium Listed company on the LSE, the Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The provisions of the Code, and disclosures in relation to how the Company has applied these provisions, is set out below.
It is the intention that, by covering routine disclosures in this appendix concerning items that change little from year to year, the main body of the Corporate Governance Report will focus on key items of importance to the Board and Committees during the year.
LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES A.
LEADERSHIP These responsibilities are set A.
1 out in the Schedule of Matters The Role of the Board Every company should be headed by an effective board, Reserved for the Board, which are summarised on page 9 of this which is collectively responsible for the success of the company.
The boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The board should set the companys strategic aims, ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the company to meet its objectives and review management performance.
The board should set the companys values and standards and ensure that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
All directors must act in what they consider to be the best Directors are made aware of their interests of the company, consistent with their statutory duties.
statutory duties on joining the Board.
1.1 The board should meet sufficiently regularly to discharge A revised Schedule of Matters Page 9 its duties effectively.
There should be a formal schedule of was reviewed and adopted early matters specically reserved for its decision.
The annual in 2012. report should include a statement of how the board operates, including a high-level statement of which types of decisions are to be taken by the board and which are to be delegated to management.
Board procedures are well Page 13 established and details of the Boards operation are provided in this report.
1.2 The annual report should identify the chairman, the deputy Details of members of the Board Pages 6 to 7 chairman where there is one, the chief executive, the and their roles are set out in this senior independent director and the chairmen and members reportand the table showing of the board committees.
It should also set out the number number and attendance at Board of meetings of the board and its committees and individual meetings is shown on page 12. attendance by directors.
Attendance at Committee Pages 20 to 36 meetings is shown in the respective Committee Reports.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 39 LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES A.
1.3 The company should arrange appropriate insurance cover The Company recognises the in respect of legal action against its directors.
potential personal liabilities to which the Directors are subject and believes that it is appropriate to protect Directors from innocent errors or emissions.
A Directors and Officers Liability insurance policy is maintained to provide the Directors with an indemnity under certain circumstances.
Directors are not covered where they have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Under the Articles, Directors are indemnified out of the assets of the Company against any loss or liability incurred by reasons of having been a Director of the Company.
2 Division of Responsibilities Michael Hibberd is the Chairman There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the of the Board and Anthony head of the company between the running of the board Buckingham is the CEO.
and the executive responsibility for the running of the companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
2.1 The roles of chairman and chief executive should not A summary of the separate duties Page 10 be exercised by the same individual.
The division of of the Chairman and CEO is responsibilities between the chairman and chief executive provided inthis report.
should be clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the board.
3 The Chairman These responsibilities are reected Page 10 The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board in the written responsibilities of and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
The chairman is responsible for setting the boards agenda and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
The chairman should also promote a culture of openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of nonexecutive directors in particular and ensuring constructive relations between executive and non-executive directors.
The chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The chairman should ensure effective communication with shareholders.
3.1 The chairman should, on appointment, meet the The Chairman was considered to independence criteria set out in B.
A chief be independent on appointment.
executive should not go on to be chairman of the same company.
If, exceptionally, a board decides that a chief executive should become chairman, the board should consult major shareholders in advance and should set out its reasons to shareholders at the time of the appointment and in the next annual report.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 40 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES A.
4 Non-executive directors These responsibilities are set out As part of their role as members of a unitary board, nonin the Non-Executive Directors executive directors should constructively challenge and letters of appointment.
help develop proposals on strategy.
Non-executive directors should scruntinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
They should satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible.
They are responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors and have a prime role in appointing and, where necessary, removing executive directors, and in succession planning.
4.1 The board should appoint one of the independent nonSir Michael Wilkes is the Senior Page 10 executive directors to be the senior independent director.
Details of The senior independent director should be available to the role of the Senior Independent shareholders if they have concerns which contact through Director are provided in this the normal channels of chairman, chief executive or finance report.
director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
4.2 The chairman should hold meetings with the non-executive The Chairman and Nondirectors without the executives present.
Led by the senior Executive Directors met and independent director, the non-executive directors should spoke regularly during the year, meet without the chairman present at least annually to and on an ad hoc basis, without appraise the chairmans performance and on such other the Executive Directors being occasions as are deemed appropriate.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, appraised the Chairmans performance as part of the annual performance evaluation undertaken during the year.
4.3 Where the directors have concerns which cannot be The Board Charter sets out resolved about the running of the company or a proposed Directors responsibilities relating action, they should ensure that their concerns are recorded to the operation of the Board and in the board minutes.
On resignation, a non-executive conduct of Directors.
It includes director should provide a written statement to the the right to ensure Directors chairman, for circulation to the board, if they have such concerns are recorded in Board concerns.
minutes and that Non-Executive Directors, on resignation, should provide a written statement to the Chairman of any concerns.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 41 LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES Page 8 B EFFECTIVENESS Details of the skill sets and B.
1 The Composition of the Board experience of the Directors are provided inthis report, together The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge of the with the split between Executive Directors, independent and company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
The board should be of a sufficient size that the requirements of the business can be met and that changes to the boards composition and that of its committees can be managed without undue disruption and should not be so large as to be unwieldy.
The board should include an appropriate combination of executive and non-executive directors and, in particular, independent non-executive directors such that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the boards decision taking.
The value of ensuring that committee membership Committee membership was is refreshed and that undue reliance is not placed on reviewed by the Nomination particular individuals should be taken into account in Committee and individual deciding chairmanship and membership of committees.
No one other than the committee chairman and members is This is reected in the Terms of entitled to be present at a meeting of the nomination, audit Reference of all the Committees or remuneration committee, but others may attend at the which may be found on invitation of the committee.
1.1 The board should identify in the annual report each The independence of Directors is Page 9 non-executive director it considers to be independent.
The board should determine whether the director is independent in character and judgement and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
The board should state its reasons if it determines that a director is independent notwithstanding the existence of relationships or circumstances which may appear relevant to its determination, including if the director: has been an employee of the company or group within the last five years: has, or has had within the last three years, a material business relationship with the company either directly, or as a partner, shareholder, director or senior employee of a body that has such a relationship with the company: has received or receives additional remuneration from the company apart from a directors fee, participates in the companys share option or a performance-related pay scheme, or is a member of the companys pension scheme: has close family ties with any of the companys advisers, directors or senior employees: holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: represents a significant shareholder: or has served on the board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 42 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES B.
1.2 Except for smaller companies, at least half the board, There are eight Directors in total.
excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive The Board considers that four of directors determined by the board to be independent.
A the Non-Executive Directors and smaller company should have at least two independent nonthe Chairman are independent.
2 Appointments to the Board These responsibilities are part There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent of the Nomination Committees procedure for the appointment of new directors to the remit and are included in board.
Appointments are made on The search for board candidates should be conducted, and merit and the Nomination appointments made, on merit against objective criteria Committee considers diversity as with due regard for the benets of diversity on the board, part of this process.
planning is regularly discussed at The board should satisfy itself that plans are in place for Nomination Committee meetings.
orderly succession for appointments to the board and to senior management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the company and on the board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the board.
2.1 There should be a nomination committee which should The Report of the Nomination Pages 32 to 33 lead the process for board appointments and make Committee is detailed in this recommendations to the board.
of the nomination committee should be independent non-executive directors.
The chairman or an independent non-executive director should chair the committee, but the chairman should not chair the nomination committee when it is dealing with the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship.
The nomination committee should make available its terms of reference, explaining its role and the authority delegated to it by the board.
2.2 The nomination committee should evaluate the balance The Nomination Committee will of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on undertake a review of the skills, the board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepare experience, independence and a description of the role and capabilities required for a knowledge on a regular basis and particular appointment.
prepare a description of the role and capabilities for any identied appointments.
2.3 Non-executive directors should be appointed for specified Non-Executive Directors are Page 8 terms subject to re-election and to statutory provisions appointed for specified terms relating to the removal of a director.
Any term beyond six subject to annual re-election years for a non-executive director should be subject to by shareholders.
The length of particularly rigorous review, and should take into account tenure of the Non-Executive the need for progressive refreshing of the board.
Directors is set out in this report.
2.4 A separate section of the annual report should describe the The Report of the Nomination Pages 32 to 33 work of the nomination committee, including the process it Committee is detailed in this has used in relation to board appointments.
should be given if neither an external search consultancy nor open advertising has been used in the appointment of a chairman or a non-executive director.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 43 LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES B.
3 Commitment All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
3.1 For the appointment of a chairman, the nomination The Nomination Committee will committee should prepare a job specication, including an prepare a job specication in the assessment of the time commitment expected, recognising event of the appointment of a new the need for availability in the event of crises.
other significant commitments should be disclosed to the board before appointment and included in the annual The Chairmans other significant report.
Changes to such commitments should be reported commitments are disclosed to to the board as they arise, and their impact explained in the the Board and may be found in next annual report.
the Directors biographies in this report.
3.2 The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive The terms and conditions of directors should be made available for inspection.
The appointment of the Non-Executive letter of appointment should set out the expected time Directors are available on request.
Non-executive directors should undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
Their other significant commitments should be disclosed to the board before appointment, with a broad indication of the time involved and the board should be informed of subsequent changes.
The letters of appointment of Page 14 the Non-Executive Directors set out the terms of appointment, including the agreed expected time commitment.
This is then assessed as part of performance evaluation to ensure they continue to be able to devote sufficient time to their duties.
An example of a Non-Executive Directors letter of appointment may be found in this report.
Prior to appointment, all Directors are expected to disclose their other time commitments in order to demonstrate that they have sufficient time to full their role as a Director.
3.3 The board should not agree to a full time executive director The policy on Executive Directors taking on more than one non-executive directorship in taking on external roles is set a FTSE 100 company nor the chairmanship of such a out in the Board Charter.
is the Companys policy that Executive Directors are permitted to accept directorships of other quoted companies provided that they have prior permission of the Chairman.
However, an Executive Director will not be permitted to take on more than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company nor the chairmanship of such a company.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 44 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES Page 14 B.
4 Development The induction programme put All directors should receive induction on joining the board in place for the two new Nonand should regularly update and refresh their skills and Executive Directors appointed knowledge.
during the year is described in this report The chairman should ensure that the directors continually.
update their skills and the knowledge and familiarity with All Directors are actively the company required to full their role both on the board encouraged to question, and on board committees.
The company should provide examine and review the Groups the necessary resources for developing and updating its operations and to undertake directors knowledge and capabilities.
training applicable to their roles.
To function effectively, all directors need appropriate Non-Executive Directors develop knowledge of the company and access to its operations an understanding of the views andstaff.
of major shareholders through various channels, including briengs by the Executive Directors and the Senior Independent Director and by information provided at Board meetings on investor relations strategy.
All Directors have the opportunity to update their skills and knowledge on a regular basis through briengs at Board meetings on issues including changes in law and regulation, corporate governance, financial reporting and operational matters.
Directors are in regular communication with senior executives through both formal and informal ad hoc meetings, to ensure an exchange of knowledge and experience between management and Directors.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 45 LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES B.
4.1 The chairman should ensure that new directors receive a It is part of the Chairmans Page 10 full, formal and tailored induction on joining the board.
written responsibilities to ensure As part of this, the directors should avail themselves of that new Directors receive a full, opportunities to meet major shareholders.
formal and tailored induction on joining the Board.
Upon joining the Board a Director will participate in an induction programme covering the principles and legal and regulatory duties required of them.
This training is tailored to an individuals needs, taking into account their qualications and experience.
In addition, meetings are arranged with senior management to enable NonExecutive Directors to develop a detailed understanding of the Companys business, its strategy and the key risks and challenges facing the Company.
The induction process for the two Page 14 new Directors who joined the Board during the year, Carmen Rodriguez and Mark Erwin, is described in this report.
4.2 The chairman should regularly review and agree with each The Chairman regularly reviews director their training and development needs.
the training and development needs of Directors as part of the annual evaluation process.
5 Information and Support The Chairman, supported by the The board should be supplied in a timely manner with CEO and CFO, ensures that all information in a form and of a quality appropriate to Directors receive accurate, timely enable it to discharge its duties.
and clear information to support informed discussions at Board The chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors meetings.
receive accurate, timely and clear information.
Management has an obligation to provide such information but directors See disclosure under B.
5.2 below should seek clarification or amplication where necessary.
in relation to the Company Under the direction of the chairman, the company Secretary.
secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good information ows within the board and its committees and between senior management and non-executive directors, as well as facilitating and assisting with professional development as required.
The company secretary should be responsible for advising the board through the chairman on all governance matters.
5.1 The board should ensure that directors, especially nonThe right of all Directors to executive directors, have access to independent professional access independent professional advice at the companys expense where they judge it advice whenever it is required necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
and at the Companys expense is Committees should be provided with sufficient resources to written into the Board Charter.
The Terms of Reference of each of the Board Committees sets out that they must be provided with sufficient resources for them to undertake their duties.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 46 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES B.
5.2 All directors should have access to the advice and services Given the size of the Company, of the company secretary, who is responsible to the board the Board feels that it is in the for ensuring that board procedures are complied with.
Both shareholders best interests not the appointment and removal of the company secretary to employ a full-time Company should be a matter for the board as a whole.
Secretary at this stage in the Companys development.
The current Company Secretary is a corporate entity based in Jersey that deals with the normal statutory compliance for the Company.
The Board and its Committees are, therefore, serviced by the Company Secretary or its nominee.
The other duties that would normally be carried out by the Company Secretary, such as the provision of information ows to the Board, are dealt with by the Chairman, the CEO or CFO or their nominee.
In terms of corporate governance issues, the Board is advised by McCarthy Ttrault, a rm of registered foreign lawyers and solicitors with offices in North America and in London.
The Board monitors the provision of company secretarial duties and takes any action as appropriate to ensure its requirements are met.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
6 Evaluation The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
The chairman should act on the results of the performance evaluation by recognising the strengths and addressing the weaknesses of the board and, where appropriate, proposing new members be appointed to the board or seeking the resignation of directors.
Individual evaluation should aim to show whether each director continues to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to the role including commitment of time for board and committee meetings and any other duties.
6.1 The board should state in the annual report how A review of how performance Page 15 performance evaluation of the board, its committees and its evaluation has been carried out individual directors has been conducted.
may be found in this report.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 47 LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES B.
6.2 Evaluation of the board of FTSE 350 companies should be In 2012 the performance review externally facilitated at least every three years.
A statement was conducted internally by should be made available of whether an external facilitator means of interviews by the has any other connection with the company.
The last external facilitated performance review was carried out by the Group in 2010.
A further externally facilitated evaluation is taking place in 2013.
6.3 The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent The evaluation of the Chairmans director, should be responsible for performance evaluation performance is conducted by the of the chairman, taking into account the views of executive Non-Executive Directors, led by directors.
Sir Michael Wilkes as the Senior Independent Director, and also takes into account the views of the Executive Directors.
7 Re-election All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
7.1 All directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject With regard to retirement and to annual election by shareholders.
All other directors re-election of Directors, the should be subject to election by shareholders at the first Company is governed by its annual general meeting after their appointment, and to reArticles, the Code and the Jersey election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Under the Non-executive directors who have served longer than nine Articles, Directors have the power years should be subject to annual re-election.
The names to appoint a Director to the Board of directors submitted for election or re-election should during the year but any person be accompanied by sufficient biographical details and any so appointed must stand for other relevant information to enable shareholders to take an election at the next AGM.
Having informed decision on their election.
considered feedback and investor sentiment during the year it was agreed that with effect from the 2012 AGM, all Directors will retire and stand for re-election annually.
Directors re-elected at the AGM will be appointed for a one-year term.
7.2 The board should set out to shareholders in the papers The Notice of Annual General accompanying a resolution to elect a non-executive director Meeting includes in the notes why they believe an individual should be elected.
The accompanying the resolutions to chairman should confirm to shareholders when proposing elect Non-Executive Directors re-election that, following formal performance evaluation, why the Board believes that the individuals performance continues to be effective and individual should be elected.
to demonstrate commitment to the role.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 48 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES C. ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting The board should present a balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects.
The boards responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports and reports to regulators as well as to information required to be presented by statutory requirements.
C. 1.1 The directors should explain in the annual report their The responsibility statements Pages 8 to 9 responsibility for preparing the annual report and accounts of the Directors and the and there should be a statement by the auditors about their Independent Auditors Report reporting responsibilities.
may be found in the Financial Statements.
C. 1.2 The directors should include in the annual report an A full review and report on the explanation of the basis on which the company generates Companys business model and or preserves value over the longer term the business strategy may be found in the model and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Annual Review Report which company.
accompanies this Corporate Governance Report.
C. 1.3 The directors should report in annual and half-yearly A statement on going concern Page 8 financial statements that the business is a going concern, may be found in the Financial with supporting assumptions or qualications as necessary.
C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Control The Boards responsibilities for The board is responsible for determining the nature risk and internal control are set and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take out in the Schedule of Matters in achieving its strategic objectives.
The board should Reserved for the Board.
maintain sound risk management and internal control systems.
C. 2.1 The board should, at least annually, conduct a review of the Details of the Groups risk Page 15 effectiveness of the groups risk management and internal management and internal control control systems and should report to shareholders that they systems may be found in this have done so.
The review should cover all material controls, report and further details may including financial, operational and compliance controls.
be found in the Annual Review Report.
C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they should apply the corporate reporting and risk management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
C. 3.1 The board should establish an audit committee of at least The Audit Committee Report Pages 30 to 32 three, or in the case of smaller companies two, independent may be found in thisreport.
In smaller companies the company chairman may be a member of, but not chair, the committee in addition to the independent non-executive directors, provided he or she was considered independent on appointment as chairman.
The board should satisfy itself that at least one member of the audit committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 49 LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES A summary of the Terms of Page 30 C. 3.2 The main role and responsibilities of the audit committee should be set out in written terms of reference and should Reference of the Audit Committee may be found in this report.
include: to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the company, and any formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: to review the companys internal financial controls and, unless expressly addressed by a separate board risk committee composed of independent directors, or by the board itself, to review the companys internal control and risk management systems: to monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function: to make recommendations to the board, for it to put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: to review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: and to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit rm: and to report to the board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
C. 3.3 The terms of reference of the audit committee, including its The Terms of Reference of the Pages 30 to 32 role and the authority delegated to it by the board, should Audit Committee are available on be made available.
A separate section of the annual report the Companys website should describe the work of the committee in discharging www.
The Report of the Audit Committee can be found in this report.
C. 3.4 The audit committee should review arrangements by which A whistle-blowing policy is in staff of the company may, in confidence, raise concerns operation across the Group.
Any about possible improprieties in matters of financial feedback from these arrangements reporting or other matters.
The audit committees objective is regularly reviewed by the should be to ensure that arrangements are in place for Audit Committee along with the the proportionate and independent investigation of such operation of the policy.
matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 50 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES C. 3.5 The audit committee should monitor and review the At present there is no internal effectiveness of the internal audit activities.
Where there audit function established.
The is no internal audit function, the audit committee should Audit Committee reviewed consider annually whether there is a need for an internal the need for an internal audit audit function and make a recommendation to the board, function in 2011 and again in and the reasons for the absence of such a function should be 2012.
It concurred with the explained in the relevant section of the annual report.
opinion of the Board, which maintains that the current control systems in place and management oversight are sufficient to highlight any areas of weaknesses in the financial reporting systems.
The need for an internal audit function is reviewed at least annually.
C. 3.6 The audit committee should have primary responsibility Information on the external Pages31 to 32 for making a recommendation on the appointment, auditors can be found in this re-appointment and removal of the external auditors.
If the board does not accept the audit committees recommendation, it should include in the annual report, and in any papers recommending appointment or reappointment, a statement from the audit committee explaining the recommendation and should set out reasons why the board has taken a different position.
C. 3.7 The annual report should explain to shareholders how, if Disclosures in respect of auditor Pages 31 to 32 the auditor provides non-audit services, auditor objectivity objectivity and independence and independence is safeguarded.
may be found in the Report of the Audit Committee.
D. REMUNERATION Disclosures relating to Pages 20 to 29 D. 1 remuneration and the provisions The Level and Components of Remuneration Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, of Section D of the Code may be found in the Report of the retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run the company successfully, but a company should Remuneration Committee.
avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
A significant proportion of executive directors remuneration should be structured so as to link rewards to corporate and individual performance.
The performance-related elements of executive directors remuneration should be stretching and designed to promote the long-term success of the company.
The remuneration committee should judge where to position their company relative to other companies.
But they should use such comparisons with caution, in view of the risk of an upward ratchet of remuneration levels with no corresponding improvement in performance.
They should also be sensitive to pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the group, especially when determining annual salary increases.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 51 LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES D. 2 Procedure There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration and for xing the remuneration packages of individual directors.
No director should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
The remuneration committee should consult the chairman and or chief executive about their proposals relating to the remuneration of other executive directors.
The remuneration committee should also be responsible for appointing any consultants in respect of executive director remuneration.
Where executive directors or senior management are involved in advising or supporting the remuneration committee, care should be taken to recognise and avoid conicts of interest.
The chairman of the board should ensure that the company maintains contact as required with its principal shareholders about remuneration.
E. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Regular investor reports are made E. 1 to the whole Board to ensure Dialogue with Shareholders There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the that any major issues raised by shareholders are reviewed.
The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
Whilst recognising that most shareholder contact is with the chief executive and finance director, the chairman should ensure that all directors are made aware of their major shareholders issues and concerns.
The board should keep in touch with shareholder opinion in whatever ways are most practical and efficient.
E. 1.1 The chairman should ensure that the views of shareholders Regular investor relation reports are communicated to the board as a whole.
The chairman are made to the Board.
should discuss governance and strategy with major shareholders.
Non-executive directors should be offered the opportunity to attend scheduled meetings with major shareholders and should expect to attend meetings if requested by major shareholders.
The senior independent director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in order to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
E. 1.2 The board should state in the annual report the steps Details are provided in this Page 16 they have taken to ensure that members of the board, report.
and in particular the non-executive directors, develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the company, for example through direct face-to-face contact, analysts or brokers briengs and surveys of shareholder opinion.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 52 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES E. 2 Constructive Use of the AGM The board should use the AGM to communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
E. 2.1 At any general meeting, the company should propose a Proxy forms allow shareholders separate resolution on each substantially separate issue, to vote for or against a resolution and should in particular propose a resolution at the AGM or to withhold their vote.
It is relating to the report and accounts.
For each resolution, made clear on the proxy form proxy appointment forms should provide shareholders with that a vote withheld is not a vote the option to direct their proxy to vote either for or against in law and will not be counted as the resolution or to withhold their vote.
The proxy form a vote either for or against the and any announcement of the results of a vote should make resolution.
it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against the resolution.
E. 2.2 The company should ensure that all valid proxy The collation of proxy votes is appointments received for general meetings are properly undertaken by the Companys recorded and counted.
For each resolution, where a vote has Registrar, Computershare.
been taken on a show of hands, the company should ensure Information on proxy voting, that the following information is given at the meeting including votes for, against and and made available as soon as reasonably practicable votes withheld, are released to on a website which is maintained by or on behalf of the the market after the AGM or any company: general meeting.
Where voting is the number of shares in respect of which proxy carried out by poll, the Company appointments have been validly made: releases details of the poll voting the number of votes for the resolution: as soon as possible after the the number of votes against the resolution: and meeting.
the number of shares in respect of which the vote was directed to be withheld.
E. 2.3 The chairman should arrange for the chairmen of the audit, All the Directors, including remuneration and nomination committees to be available to the chairmen of the Board answer questions at the AGM and for all directors to attend.
Committees, attended the AGM in 2012 and it is intended will do so again in 2013.
E. 2.4 The company should arrange for the Notice of the AGM Formal Notice of the AGM, and related papers to be sent to shareholders at least 20 including details of special working days before the meeting.
business, is set out in the Notice of AGM and dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Notice of AGM will also be available on the Companys websitewww.
