Financial Statements 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 23 4 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES, The level of estimated commercial reserves is also a key determinant ASSUMPTIONS AND JUDGEMENTS in assessing whether the carrying value of any of the Groups development and production assets has been impaired.
In the process of applying the Companys accounting policies, which are described in note 2, management makes estimates and C FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by denition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The Groups accounting policies and disclosures require the determination of the fair value of financial instruments.
Fair values The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities have been determined for measurement and or disclosure purposes based on the following methods: within the next financial year are discussed below.
i Non-derivative financial instruments A RECOVERABILIT Y OF E&E COSTS Under the modied full cost method of accounting for E&E costs, These comprise investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, certain costs are capitalised as intangible assets by reference to appropriate cost pools, and are assessed for impairment when current tax liabilities and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may exceed its recoverable value.
Such circumstances include, but are not limited to: instruments not at fair value through the income statement, any directly attributable transaction costs.
i the period for which the entity has the right to explore in the Fair value of investments in equity and debt securities is determined specic area has expired during the period, or will expire in the near future, and is not expected to be renewed: by reference to their quoted closing bid price at the reporting date.
ii substantive expenditure on further exploration for, and evaluation of, mineral resources in the specic area is neither budgeted nor Fair value of all other non-derivative financial instruments is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest planned: iii exploration for, and evaluation of, mineral resources in the cash ows, discounted at the applicable market rate of interest at the reporting date.
specic area have not led to the discovery of commercially viable quantities of mineral resources and the entity has decided to ii Derivatives discontinue such activities in the specic area: and iv sufficient data exists to indicate that, although a development in Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when the specic area is likely to proceed, the carrying amount of the exploration and evaluation asset is unlikely to be recovered in full incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value.
Embedded derivatives are separated from the host from successful development or by sale.
contract and accounted for separately if the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the embedded derivative are not This assessment involves judgment as to: i the likely future commerciality of the asset and when such commerciality should be closely related, a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the denition of a derivative and the determined: ii future revenues and costs pertaining to any wider cost pool with which the asset in question is associated: and iii the combined instrument is not measured at fair value through the income statement.
discount rate to be applied to such revenues and costs for the purpose of deriving a recoverable value.
Note 11 discloses the carrying The fair value of derivative financial instruments is based on their amounts of the Groups E&E assets.
Consequently, major uncertainties affect the recoverability of these costs which is listed market prices, if available.
If a listed market price is not available, then fair value is estimated by discounting the difference dependent on the Group achieving commercial production or the sale of the assets.
Note 24 discloses contingencies relating to title risks.
between the contractual forward price and the current forward price The Company assessed whether these risks are contingencies or for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk free interest rate indicators of impairment and concluded that they are contingencies.
There are licences that are due for renewal in 2012.
The Group is confident they will be renewed.
IFRS 7 requires the classication of fair value measurements using a fair value hierarchy that reects the signicance of the inputs used in B RESERVE ESTIMATES making the assessments.
The fair value hierarchy has the following Estimates of recoverable quantities of proved and probable reserves levels: include assumptions regarding commodity prices, exchange rates, discount rates, production and transportation costs for future cash Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical ows.
It also requires interpretation of complex and difficult assets or liabilities.
geological and geophysical models in order to make an assessment of L evel 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 the size, shape, depth and quality of reservoirs and their anticipated that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as recoveries.
The economic, geological and technical factors used to prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
estimate reserves may change from period to period.
Changes in Level 3: inputs for the assets or liability are not based on reported reserves can impact asset carrying values and the asset observable market data unobservable inputs.
retirement obligation due to changes in expected future cash ows.
Reserves are integral to the amount of depletion charged to the income statement and the calculation of inventory.
