L A C S O I R A P O R R P A P T E A S O C I N A L O P R I E R T S A O P O R D N O U S I L B C I P T L I X I T E Y E O C N N A N HERITAGE OIL PLC Annual Review 2012 04 The Company possesses certain key attributes, discussed THE HERITAGE BUSINESS overleaf, that provide it with a competitive advantage.
Key MODEL Performance Indicators KPIs are used by the Company as one measure of performance and relate to both the underlying business model and the delivery of strategy.
In addition, the Heritages vision is to be a leading Company actively monitors certain risks attached to the exploration and production company.
business model and strategy which are detailed on pages32 to 34.
The business model creates the foundation upon which the Company Heritages business model balances theexploration and appraisal process with cash generating production assets can achieve this through its strategy.
which is supported through high standards of governance, regional knowledge and contacts and an effective Corporate Social Responsibility CSR policy framework.
R E D V E O G V R E E G L I O O E N P N A I L M L K E P N I N O C T W S L I E D D G E L A T C I O P N A T A C C T S Annual Review 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 05 COREBUSINESS MODEL Exploration and appraisal Capital discipline Production and development Our technical team is responsible for Once the area has been proven, An appropriate capital structure assessing new areas for exploration balancing the exploration and appraised and confirmed campaigns and ensuring that we commercially viable, the operational demands of the portfolio have the ability to continually with nancing requirements is development team is responsible for replenish our exploration portfolio.
providing information to enable the required to ensure appropriate The team will identify core plays and Company to best achieve revenue funding for long-term sustainable prioritise exploration options across generation and cash ow by moving growth.
This can include the the portfolio.
After reviewing the the hydrocarbons into production.
A monetisation of assets or accessing initial exploration programme, the strong regard for the environment capital markets and is an ongoing team will propose an appraisal and respect for local communities is process to ensure efficient allocation campaign to prove up the size of the important.
discovery and whether it is deemed commercial.
Further information can be found in the Financial Statements Report.
Further information on the current asset portfolio can be found in this report on pages16 to 23.
SUPPORTED THROUGH Governance Regional knowledge and contacts Corporate Social Responsibility Heritage seeks to achieve and Relationships with national and An effective CSR policy framework is maintain the highest standards and regional governments are a key focus a key element of long-term success.
best practice reporting in all areas of within the business.
These Managing relationships with governance.
relationships provide the Company stakeholders is viewed as important with the ability to assess risk and in developing and maintaining a Further information can be found in provide a competitive edge versus its reputation as a preferred partner.
Further information can be found in the CSR Report.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Heritage uses a number of financial Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Reserves and contingent resources and operating KPIs that are closely LTIFR Operationally a top additions The core business model aligned with the underlying business priority is to keep people safe.
This involves replenishing the exploration model and its strategy for delivering includes employees, contractors and portfolio, ensuring the continued long-term sustainable growth.
These local communities where we operate.
growth of the Company and the are some of the indicators by which potential production prole.
Staff turnover Retaining quality Several of these are linked to the staff is important to ensure the Average realised price In Russia, primary business risks of the delivery of the strategy.
the realised price improves, in part, Company which are detailed on as production increases due to better pages32 to 34.
Production from continuing price negotiation and there being a operations Production is key to wider base of customers.
Prices have revenue and cash generation and not been hedged during the year.
Heritage aims to achieve levels in line with annual budgeting and market guidance.
2 Excludes staff members in Uganda who transferred with the sale of the Ugandan Assets in 2010.
3 For 2012, pro forma production includes Heritages net share of average daily production from the Zapadno Chumpasskoye Field in Russia for the full year, together with its net share of average daily production for OML 30 included for November and December 2012 only, following completion of the acquisition of an interest in OML 30 through Shoreline effective 1 November 2012.
Heritages total net share of production in 2012 was 975,511 barrels.
5 Realised price is a measure of the price achieved for output sold.
