HERITAGE OIL PLC Financial Statements 2012 16 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 REPORTING ENTITY debt and additional equity.
Accordingly, the Group has a number of Heritage Oil Plc the Company was incorporated under the Jersey different sources of finance available and the Directors are confident Companies Law on 6 February 2008 as Heritage Oil Limited.
The that additional finance will be raised as and when needed.
Company changed its name to Heritage Oil Plc on 18 June 2009.
Its primary business activity is the exploration, development and The Groups activities are described in the Annual Review.
The production of petroleum and natural gas in Africa, the Middle East financial position of the Group, its cash ows and liquidity position and Russia.
The Company was established in order to implement a are described in the financial review and financial statements within corporate reorganisation of HOC.
In addition, the notes to the financial statements include the Groups policies and processes for These consolidated financial statements include the results of the managing its capital and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
Company and all subsidiaries over which the Company exercises Having reviewed the future plans and projections for the Group and control.
The Company together with its subsidiaries are referred to as its current financial position, the Directors believe it to be the Group.
The key subsidiaries consolidated within these financial appropriate for the financial statements to have been prepared on a statements include inter alia Heritage Oil Corporation, Heritage Oil & going concern basis.
In making this assessment they have considered the Company and Group budgets, the cash ow forecasts and Gas Limited, Heritage Oil and Gas U Limited, Heritage Energy Middle East Limited, Heritage DRC Limited, Coatbridge Estates reviewed the availability of banking facilities.
Limited, ChumpassNefteDobycha, Neftyanaya Geologicheskaya Kompaniya, Heritage Mali Block 7 Limited, Heritage Mali Block 11 In reaching this conclusion, the Directors have considered the Limited, Begal Air Limited, Heritage Oil & Gas Holdings Limited, following factor in particular.
Eagle Drill Limited, Heritage Oil International Malta Limited, 1381890 Alberta ULC, Heritage Oil Cooperatief U.
A, Heritage Oil Renancing of Shoreline Holdings Limited, Darwin Air Limited, Heritage Tanzania KimbijiShorelines purchase of the Acquisition Assets was in part funded by Latham Limited, Heritage Oil Tanzania Limited, Heritage Oil UK a $550 million bridge facility arranged by Standard Bank Plc which Limited, Heritage Rukwa TZ Limited, Heritage Energy Limited, expires no later than 29 December 2013.
At the time of the Heritage Energy International Limited, Sahara Oil Services Limited, acquisition Standard Bank Plc agreed, subject to a number of Sahara Oil Services Holdings Limited, and Heritage Oil SNR substantive conditions, to renance this into a long term loan.
Discussions have progressed well with Standard Bank Plc and the other banks in the lending syndicate and terms for a five-year The financial statements were approved by the Board and authorised borrowing base loan initially of $550 million have been agreed for issuance on 29 April 2013. subject inter alia to nalisation of documentation and credit committee approval.
The Directors are confident that this 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES renancing will take place before the bridge loan expires on 29 The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these December 2013 though there can be no certainty of this.
Upon consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies completion of the renancing, the amount of $101 million currently have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless deposited as security for the bridge facility will be released to the otherwise stated.
Group.. Based on forecasts for a period in excess of 12 months, the Group would have sufficient funds to finance its activities well into A BASIS OF PREPARATION 2014 even taking account of an adverse outcome in the Uganda tax The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in dispute as described in note 6. accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
In the very unlikely event that the renancing does not complete and The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the alternative nancing for Shoreline is not forthcoming, and assuming historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of certain that the Uganda tax dispute has not been resolved in the Groups financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
favour resulting in the return of a significant amount of cash see note 6, the Group may not have sufficient cash available to complete its The Companys consolidated financial statements are presented in work programme and meet its expenditure for the foreseeable future thousand US dollars unless otherwise stated.
US dollars are the and could need to raise funds to continue its activities by early 2014 Companys functional and presentation currency.
In these circumstances the directors would consider all available alternatives including the sale or farm down of oil and gas The Group had available cash of $90 million at 31 December 2012, properties, the sale of other assets and the raising of debt and or excluding amounts related to the tax dispute with the Ugandan equity finance by Heritage.
There can be no guarantee that any of government and amounts held in restricted cash for the Acquisition.
these actions would succeed or that they would raise sufficient funds Based on its current plans and knowledge, its projected capital to allow Shoreline to be renanced.
expenditure and operating cash requirements, the Group has sufficient cash to finance its operations for more than 12 months from the date of The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to this report.
As for most oil and gas exploration companies, Heritage affect its future development, performance and position are set out in raises nancing for its activities from time to time using a variety of the Annual Review on pages 16 to 34.
The financial position of the sources.
Sources of funding for future exploration and development Group, its cash ows and liquidity position are described in the programmes will be derived from inter alia disposal proceeds from the Financial Review on pages 2 to 7 of this report.
In addition, note 3 of sale of assets, such as the disposal ofits interest in the MiranPSC in the financial statements includes the Groups policies and processes for 2012 and its disposal of the Ugandan Assets in 2010 note 6, using its managing its capital: its financial risk management: and its exposure to existing treasury resources, new credit facilities, reinvesting its funds foreign exchange risk, commodity price risk, credit risk and liquidity from operations, farm-outs and, when considered appropriate, issuing risk.
Financial Statements 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 17 Segment results that are reported to the CEO and CFO include 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED itemsdirectly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items comprise mainly C SEGMENT REPORTING The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS corporate assets, corporate offices expenses and liabilities.
requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible applying the Companys accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assets other than goodwill.
assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 4.
D JOINT ARRANGEMENTS AND JOINTLY CONTROLLED ENTITIES B CONSOLIDATION The majority of exploration, development and production activities are conducted jointly with others under contractual arrangement The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets and liabilities of all subsidiaries of the Company as at 31 December 2012 and, accordingly, the Group only reects its proportionate interest in such assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
and 2011 and the results of all subsidiaries for the years then ended.
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Subsidiaries are all entities, including special purpose entities over Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and which the Company has the power to govern the financial and requiring unanimous consent for strategic, financial and operating operating policies, so as to obtain benets from its activities, decisions.
The Group only reects its proportionate interest in such generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing E EXPLORATION AND EVALUATION whether the Company controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully EXPENDITURES consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the The Group applies a modied full cost method of accounting for Company.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
exploration and evaluation E&E costs, having regard to the requirements of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the Resources.
Under the modied full cost method of accounting, costs acquisition ofbusinesses by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is of exploring for and evaluating oil and gas properties are capitalised measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments on a licence or prospect basis and the resulting assets are tested for issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
impairment by reference to appropriate cost pools.
Such cost pools Identiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities are based on geographic areas and are not larger than a segment.
The assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair Group hadeight cost pools in 2012 2011 seven cost pools : Nigeria values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority entered in 2012 : Kurdistan discontinued in 2012 : Russia: Pakistan: interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Malta: Mali discontinued in 2012, Tanzania and Libya.
Groups share of the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of E&E costs related to each licence prospect are initially capitalised acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary within Intangible exploration and evaluation assets.
Such E&E costs acquired, the difference is recognised immediately in the income may include costs of licence acquisition, technical services and studies, statement.
Expenses related to acquisitions are included in the seismic acquisition, exploration drilling and testing, the projected costs consolidated income statement asincurred.
of retiring the assets, if any, and directly attributable general and administrative expenses, but do not include costs incurred prior to Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on having obtained the legal rights to explore an area, which are expensed transactions between Group entities the Company and its directly to the income statement as they are incurred.
For the purposes of consolidation, the accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary Where the Company farms-in to licences and incurs costs in excess to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Company.
of its own share of licence costs as consideration, these costs are capitalised as its own share.
The Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that internally is provided to the Chief Executive Officer Tangible assets acquired for use in E&E activities are classied as CEO and Chief Financial Officer CFO, who are the Groups chief operating decision makers.
property, plant and equipment: however, to the extent that such a tangible asset is consumed in developing an intangible E&E asset, the An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in amount reecting that consumption is recorded as part of the cost of the intangible asset.
business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions Intangible E&E assets related to each exploration licence prospect with any of the Groups other components.
An operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the CEO and CFO to are not depreciated and are carried forward until the existence, or otherwise, of commercial reserves has been determined.
The Groups make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information denition of commercial reserves for such purpose is proved and probable reserves on an entitlement basis.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Financial Statements 2012 18 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES expected to be derived from production of commercial reserves.
Where CONTINUED the E&E asset to be tested falls outside the scope of any established Proved and probable reserves are the estimated quantities of crude cost pool, there will generally be no commercial reserves and the E&E oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological, geophysical asset concerned will be written off in full.
and engineering data demonstrate with a specified degree of certainty see below to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs F PROPERT Y, PL ANT AND EQUIPMENT i Development and production assets and which are considered commercially producible.
There should be a 50% statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable The Group hadan interest in Russiaat the development and production stage during the years covered by these financial reserves will be more than the amount estimated as proved and probable and a 50% statistical probability that it will be less.
The statements and acquired an interest in Nigeria, which is at the development and production stage, and is included in the Groups equivalent statistical probabilities for the proven component of proved and probable reserves are 90% and 10%, respectively.
Such reserves may be considered commercially producible if Development and production assets are accumulated on a eld-byeld basis and represent the cost of developing the commercial management has the intention of developing and producing them and such intention is based upon: reserves discovered and bringing them into production, together with the E&E expenditures incurred in nding commercial reserves a reasonable assessment of the future economics of such transferred from intangible E&E assets as outlined above, the projected cost of retiring the assets and directly attributable general production: a reasonable expectation that there is a market for all or and administrative expenses.
substantially all the expected hydrocarbon production: and evidence that the necessary production, transmission and The net book values of producing assets are depleted on a eld-byeld basis using the unit of production method by reference to the transportation facilities are available or can be made available.
ratio of production in the year to the relatedcommercial reserves of the eld, taking into account estimated future development Furthermore: expenditures necessary to bring those reserves into production.
i Reserves may only be considered proved and probable if producibility is supported by either actual production or a conclusive An impairment test is performed whenever events and circumstances arising during the development or production phase indicate that the formation test.
The area of reservoir considered proved includes: a that portion delineated by drilling and dened by gas-oil and or carrying value of a development or production asset may exceed its recoverable amount.
The aggregate carrying value is compared oil-water contacts, if any, or both: and b the immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as against the expected recoverable amount of the cash generating unit, generally by reference to the present value of the future net cash ows economically productive on the basis of available geophysical, geological and engineering data.
In the absence of information on expected to be derived from the production of commercial reserves.
The cash generating unit applied for impairment test purposes is uid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir.
generally the eld, except that a number of eld interests may be grouped as a single cash generating unit where the cash ows ii Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques, such as uid generated by the elds are interdependent.
injection, are only included in the proved and probable classication when successful testing by a pilot project, the ii Other assets Other property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less operation of an installed programme in the reservoir, or other reasonable evidence such as, experience of the same techniques accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
The assets useful lives and residual values are assessed on an annual basis.
on similar reservoirs or reservoir simulation studies provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or Furniture and ttings are depreciated using the reducing balance programme was based.
If commercial reserves have been discovered, the related E&E assets Land is not subject to depreciation.
are assessed for impairment on a cost pool basis as set out below and any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
The Aircraft are depreciated over their expected useful life of 60 months.
carrying value, after any impairment loss, of the relevant E&E assets Depreciation is charged so as to write-off the cost, less estimated is then reclassied as development and production assets within residual value of aircraft on a straight-line basis.
Corporate capital assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over An E&E assetis assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances their estimated useful lives.
The building is depreciated on a suggest that the carrying amount may exceed its recoverable amount.
straight-line basis over 40 years with nil residual value.
Such circumstances include the point at which a determination is made as to whether or not commercial reserves exist.
Where the E&E asset G CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS concerned falls within the scope of an established full cost pool, the Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, deposits held at call E&E asset istested for impairment together with any other E&E assets with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with and all development and production assets associated with that cost original maturities of three months or less.
Cash and cash equivalents pool, as a single cash generating unit.
The aggregate carrying value is are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
compared against the expected recoverable amount of the pool, generally by reference to the present value of the future net cash ows Financial Statements 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 19 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES less costs to sell if their carrying amount will be recovered principally CONTINUED through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
H TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and Non-current assets, including those that are part of a disposal group subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest are not depreciated or amortised while they are classied as held for method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of sale.
Interest and other expenses attributable to the liabilities of a disposal group classied as held for sale continue to be recognised.
trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the Non-current assets classied as held for sale and the assets of a disposal original terms of the receivables.
group classied as assets held for sale are presented separately, as current assets, from the other assets in the balance sheet.
The liabilities I INVENTORIES Inventories consist of petroleum, condensate, liquid petroleum gas of a disposal group classied as held for sale are presented separately, as current liabilities, from other liabilities in the balance sheet.
and materials that are recorded at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials, direct A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that labour, depletion and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations that has been disposed of or is held for sale, or is a realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Provision is made subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Classication as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
meets the criteria to be classied as held for sale, if earlier.
When an operation is classied as a discontinued operation, from the J INVESTMENTS The Group classies its investments in the following categories: comparative income statement is represented as if the operation had been discontinued from the start of the comparative period.
financial assets at fair value through the income statement and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classication depends on the L TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management determines the classication of its investments at initial recognition.
These amounts represent liabilities for goods and services provided to the Group prior to the end of the financial year which are unpaid.
During the years covered by these financial statements the Group did not have any investments classied as held to maturity investments.
M BORROWINGS i Financial assets at fair value through the income statement Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised Financial assets held for trading are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption amount is recognised in the income statement classied in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term.
Derivatives are classied as held for trading over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
unless they are designated as hedges.
Convertible bonds are separated into liability and derivative liability components being the Bondholders conversion option and each Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through the income statement category are component is recognised separately.
On initial recognition, the fair value of the liability component of a convertible bond is determined presented in the income statement within Unrealisedlosses on other financial assets in the year in which they arise.
using a market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond.
This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis ii Available-for-sale financial assets using the effective interest method until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the Bonds.
The Company reassesses the classication Available-for-sale financial assets, comprising principally marketable equity securities, are non-derivatives that are either designated in this during the life of the convertible bond and reclassies between category or not classied.
They are included in non-current assets liabilities and equity when appropriate.
unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired.
The Changes in the fair value of monetary securities classied as difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability that available-for-sale other than impairment losses and foreign exchange has been extinguished or transferred to another party and the gains and losses which are recognised in the income statement are consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or recognised in equity.
Upon sale of a security classied as availableliabilities assumed, is recognised in finance income or costs.
for-sale, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Borrowings are classied as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is 12 months after the balance sheet date.
objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
Measurement is assessed by reference to the fair value of N BORROWING COSTS the financial asset or group of financial assets.
Borrowing costs incurred for the construction of any qualifying asset are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete K NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND and prepare the asset for its intended use or sale.
Other borrowing DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS costs are expensed.
Non-current assets, or disposal groups, are classied as assets held for sale and stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value HERITAGE OIL PLC Financial Statements 2012 20 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES R FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSL ATION CONTINUED Items included in the financial statements of each of the Companys The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing consolidated subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the costs to be capitalised is the weighted average interest rate applicable to primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates the the Groups outstanding borrowings during the year.
For the year ended functional currency.
The Companys consolidated financial 31 December 2012, this was2.1% 31 December 2011 13.02%.
statements are presented in thousand US dollars, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
O PROVISIONS Asset retirement obligations Foreign currency transactions are translated into the respective Provision is made for the estimated cost of any asset retirement functional currencies of Group entities using the exchange rates obligations when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains as a result of past events, it is probable that an outow of resources will and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in Asset retirement obligation expense is capitalised in the relevant asset the income statement.
category unless it arises from the normal course of production activities.
The results and financial position of all the Companys consolidated Provisions are measured at the present value of managements best subsidiaries none of which has a functional currency that is the estimate of expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the currency of a hyperinationary economy that have a functional balance sheet date.
The discount rate used to determine the present currency different from the presentation currency are translated into value reects current market assessments of the time value of money the presentation currency as follows: and the risks specic to the liability.
i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are Subsequent to the initial measurement of the asset retirement translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: obligation, the obligation is adjusted at the end of each year to reect ii income and expenses for each year are translated at average the passage of time and changes in the estimated future cash ows exchange rates unless this is not a reasonable approximation of underlying the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to the the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction passage of time is recognised as finance costs whereas changes in the dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions : and estimated future cash ows are added to or deducted from the related asset in the current period.
iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as either income or expense in a separate component of equity.
P REVENUE RECOGNITION Foreign currency loans and overdrafts are designated as, and are Revenue from the sale of petroleum and natural gas is recognised at the fair value received or receivable and is recorded when the considered to be, hedges of the exchange rate exposure inherent in foreign currency net investments and, to the extent that the hedge is significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product are transferred to the buyer.
For sales of oil and gas this is usually when effective, exchange differences giving rise to changes in the carrying value of foreign currency loans are also recognised as income or legal title passes to the external party which occurs on shipment of oil and gas to the buyer.
Interest income is recognised on a time expense directly in equity.
All other exchange differences giving rise to changes in the carrying value of foreign currency loans and proportion basis using the effective interest method.
overdrafts are recognised in the income statement.
Q INCOME TA XES Current income tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable When a foreign operation is sold, a proportionate share of the cumulative exchange differences previously recognised in equity are profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items that are never taxable or deductible as well as those recognised in the income statement, as part of the gain or loss on sale that are taxable or deductible in a different period.
current tax assets and liabilities are calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
S SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PL ANS The Group applies the fair value method of accounting to all equityDeferred income tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet method, classied share-based compensation arrangements for both employees on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and and non-employees.
Compensation costs of equity-classied awards to liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial employees are measured at fair value of the awards at the grant date statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and and recognised over the periods during which the employees become laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance unconditionally entitled to the options.
The compensation cost is sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income charged to the income statement with a corresponding increase in tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reect the actual number of share options that vest.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that future The compensation cost of equity-classied awards to non-employees taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary is initially measured at fair value of the awards at the grant date and differences and losses.
periodically remeasured to fair value until the non-employees performance is complete, and recognised over the periods during Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally which the non-employees become unconditionally entitled to the enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and when options.
The compensation cost is charged to income with a the deferred tax balances relate to the same taxation authority.
corresponding increase to share-based payment reserve.
