HERITAGE OIL PLC Financial Statements 2012 08 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The statement below explains the Directors responsibility for b the management report which is incorporated within the Annual preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts 2012. Review, the Corporate Governance Report and the Corporate Social Responsibility Report includes a fair review of the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and development and performance of the business, the position of the Accounts for the Group in accordance with applicable Jersey law and Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation regulations.
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to GOING CONCERN prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the the European Union EU and applicable law.
foreseeable future, the key facts taken into account are dealt with in note 2a, and therefore believe that it is appropriate to adopt the The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the financial statements.
Group and the performance for that period.
For and on behalf of the Board In preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: MICHAEL J. HIBBERD provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand CHAIRMAN the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless, having assessed the ability of the Company to continue as a going PAUL ATHERTON concern, it is inappropriate to presume the Company will continue in business see note 2a.
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 29APRIL 2013 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 as amended the Jersey Companies Law.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps, as are reasonably open to them, for safeguarding the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law, regulations and listing rule requirements, the Directors are also responsible for the preparation of a Directors Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement, all of which are in the Corporate Governance Report.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of thestatutory and audited information on the Companys website www.
Jersey legislation and United Kingdom regulation, governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, may differ from requirements in other jurisdictions.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS We confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of our knowledge: a the financial statements prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and
