Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 37 APPENDIX 1 COMPANY HISTORY AND PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The Company was incorporated as Heritage Oil Limited on 6February 2008 in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991, as amended, the Jersey Companies Law to become the ultimate holding company of the Group.
Heritage Oil Limited changed its name to Heritage Oil Plc on 18 June 2009.
The Company has had a Premium Listing on the Main Market of the LSE since March 2008.
The Group has two share classes trading: Ordinary Shares issued by the Company which trade on the Main Market of the LSE symbol HOIL and Exchangeable Shares issued by Heritage Oil Corporation HOC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, which trade both on the Main Market of the LSE symbol HOX and on the Toronto Stock Exchange symbol HOC.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 250 Index.
The Group is an independent, international oil and gas exploration, development and production company with an international focus.
It has producing assets in Nigeria and Russia and exploration assets in Tanzania, Papua New Guinea, Malta, Pakistan andLibya.
The Group operates through a number of subsidiaries which are proled on page 16of the Financial Statements Report.
BUSINESS REVIEW The Business Review includes the financial performance during the financial year, future developments, performance of the Group and principal risks and uncertainties.
A review of the Companys business is incorporated by reference, forming part of this report, and includes information which can be found in the reports noted below: the Chief Executives Review and Financial Review within the Annual Review on pages 12 to 31: and the CSR Report.
The cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements on page 37 of the Annual Review forms part of this report and is incorporated by reference.
Important events occuring since the end of the year are detailed in the Financial Statements on page 37.
Likely future developments are discussed in the Annual Review on pages 12 to 31.
CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENTS The Company confirms that it is not party to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid except those disclosed below: the Executive Directors service contracts contain certain provisions in relation to change of control as disclosed in the Remuneration Report: the LTIP rules contain a provision whereby in the event of a change of control all awards will vest in their entirety subject to the achievement or otherwise of the performance conditions: and bridge facility.
