4.1 GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE IN HIKMA MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholders and Stakeholders When you look at our Hikma emblem, you will see two words.
These are Quality and Hikma, which means Wisdom.
I chose these two words because I wanted them to underpin everything that we do.
Being wise and having high standards are, in essence, what good governance is all about.
It is not about rushing or planning for the short-term, it is about making sure that the decisions we take today willbenet and keep Hikma strong in the long-term.
Our approach to governance is focused on our people, as it is our people who make the decisions and take actions that are representative e a of Hikma.
W re careful when recruiting to select people with the right moral and ethical values, as well as technical skills.
We invest in 4.1 GOVERNANCE IN HIKMA CONTENTS our people with the aim of creating long-term partnerships.
At the 58 Message from our Chairman Board, we are very aware that our duties include communicating our 59 Highlights of 2012 values across the Group, empowering our people to full our mission and monitoring the outcomes to ensure that they are in line with our 59 Priorities in 2013 high expectations.
59 Governance principles As Hikma has expanded throughout the MENA region, we have 59 Dialogue with stakeholders become recognised as a thought leader and governance best practice operator in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Hikma takes pride in taking this leading role as well as in learning from others in order to continually improve our performance.
I have set out below some of our key governance achievements of the past year and some of our aims for the coming year.
I continue to be impressed with the value the Board adds to the performance of our business and have been pleased with the improvements that have increased our effectiveness during the year.
We believe that it is important not only to comply with the rules of the UK Corporate Governance Code, but also its spirit, and to explain clearly if there are circumstances where Hikmas approach on a specic issue is different.
In 2012 we complied fully with the governance requirements applicable to Hikma.
Samih Darwazah Chairman 58 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012
