4.3 REMUNERATION REPORTS OPEN FOR DISCUSSION Call 44 20 7399 2760 REMUNERATION or E-mail: investors@hikma.
com LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholder In the last year, we completed a thorough review of Hikmas executive remuneration arrangements with a focus on competitive remuneration linked to performance.
We alsosought to improve transparency and toprovide a clear report on past pay and futurepolicy.
We decided to move this report in line with the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills regulations one year early.
We developed and implemented clawback arrangements for all bonus and executive share schemes as well as share ownership requirements for Directors and senior management.
We also reviewed the performance of our remuneration adviser and conducted a tender exercise.
This follows the significant enhancements we implemented last year which enabled us tobe nominated for a transparency award.
4.3 REMUNERATION REPORTS Shareholders will recall that we froze salaries for Executive Directors 82 Governance and senior management in 2009 to 2011 and made an increase in 88 Policy 2012 which was linked to salary rises across the MENA region.
At the 93 Executive Implementation same time we have continued to review salaries for operational employees to remain competitive and reect the pressure that exists 102 Total Compensation in a number of our markets.
We have established a new bonus scheme throughout the Group with enhanced linkage to personal and group objectives and underlying group and business unit performance.
The Committee has spent a significant amount of time reviewing potential adjustments to enhance the performance linkage of the existing cash bonus structure.
Whilst we are not proposing to change the basis of the schemes, we aim to develop our process for linking awards and performance.
This builds on last years implementation of additional financial performance targets for our long-term incentive plan.
1 This report has been prepared on behalf of the Board in accordance with Regulation 11 and Schedule8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and Markets law relating to Directors remuneration.
As required by the Regulations, an advisory resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the Companys Annual General Building Public Trust Awards 2012 Meeting on 16 May 2013.
The Auditors are required to report on the certain auditable sections of this Highly commended report and to state whether, in their opinion, that these sections of the report have been properly prepared in Executive Remuneration Reporting accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Regulations.
The auditable sections have been identied inthis report.
in the FTSE 250 82 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012
