CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 2, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimatesand assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The Groups Directors believe that, among others, the following accounting policies that involve Directors judgements and estimates are the most critical to understanding and evaluating the Groups financial results.
Revenue recognition The Groups revenue recognition policies require Directors to make a number of estimates, with the most significant relating to chargebacks, product returns, rebates and price adjustments See Note 2 which vary by product arrangements and buying groups.
Accounts receivable and bad debts The Group estimates, based on its historical experience, the level of debts that it believes will not be collected.
Such estimates are made when collection of the full amount of the debt is no longer probable.
These estimates are based on a number of factors including specic customer issues and industry, economic and political conditions.
Bad debts are written-off when identied.
Goodwill and intangible assets The critical areas of judgement in relation to goodwill and intangible assets are the useful economic lives of the product-related intangibles, thegrowth rates used in the impairment tests and the discount rates used to determine net present values.
Contingent liabilities The Group is involved in various legal proceedings considered typical to its business relating to employment, product liability and other commercial disputes.
Often this litigation is subject to substantial uncertainties, and therefore the probability of a loss, if any, being incurred or an estimate ofthe amount of any loss is difficult to ascertain.
Consequently, it is often not practicable to make a reasonable estimate of the possible financial effect, if any, that could arise from the ultimate resolution of legal proceedings.
In such cases, where the Group believes that disclosure is required, information regarding the nature and facts of the case is disclosed.
For current matters see Note 34.
HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 127
