com 183 Further information Glossary Ag GAAP Silver Generally Accepted Accounting Principles Adjusted EBITDA Group Adjusted EBITDA is calculated as profit from continuing Hochschild Mining plc and subsidiary undertakings operations before exceptional items, net finance costs and IAS income tax plus depreciation and exploration expenses other International Accounting Standards than personnel and other exploration related fixed expenses.
IASB Attributable after tax profit International Accounting Standards Board Profit for the year before dividends attributable to the equity shareholders of Hochschild Mining plc from continuing IFRS operations before exceptional items and after minority interest.
International Financial Reporting Standards Au JV Gold Joint venture Average head grade koz Average ore grade fed into the mill Thousand ounces Board kt The Board of Directors of the Company Thousand tonnes CAD$ ktpa Canadian dollar Thousand tonnes per annum Company Listing or IPO Initial Public Offering or Global Offer Hochschild Mining plc The listing of the Companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange on 8 November 2006.
CSR Corporate social responsibility LTI Lost Time Injury, meaning an occupational injury or illness that Cu results in days away from work.
Copper LTIFR Directors Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTI x 1,000,000 hours The Directors of the Company worked DNV moz Det Norske Veritas is an independent foundation with the Million ounces purpose of safeguarding life, property and the environment.
Ordinary shares Dore Ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the Company Dore bullion is an impure alloy of gold and silver and is generally the final product of mining and processing: the dore Pb bullion will be transported to be refined to high purity metal.
Lead Dollar or $ Spot or spot price United States dollars The purchase price of a commodity at the current price: normally this is at a discount to the long-term contract price.
Effective Tax Rate Income tax expense as a percentage of profit from continuing t operations before income tax.
tonne EPS tpa The per-share using the weighted average number of tonnes per annum shares outstanding for the period profit available to equity tpd shareholders of the Company from continuing operations tonnes per day after exceptional items.
Zn eq Zinc equivalent Exceptional item Events that are significant and which, due to their nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, need to be disclosed separately.
