com 105 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Corporate information Hochschild Mining plc hereinafter the Company is a public limited company incorporated on 11 April 2006 under the Companies Act 1985 as a Limited Company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 05777693.
The Companys registered office is located at 46 Albemarle Street, London W1S 4JL, United Kingdom.
The ultimate controlling party of the Company is Mr Eduardo Hochschild whose beneficial interest in the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group or Hochschild Mining Group is held through Pelham Investment Corporation, a Cayman Islands company.
On 8 November 2006, the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
The Groups principal business is the mining, processing and sale of silver and gold.
The Group has three operating mines Ares, Arcata and Pallancata and a plant Selene, used to treat ore from the Pallancata mine located in southern Peru, one operating mine San Jose located in Argentina and one plant Moris located in Mexico.
The Group also has a portfolio of projects located across Peru, Argentina, Mexico and Chile at various stages of development.
These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 12 March 2013.
The Groups subsidiaries are as follows: Equity interest at 31 December Country of 2012 2011 Company Principal activity incorporation % % Hochschild Mining Argentina Corporation S. A. formerly Hochschild Mining Argentina Corporation Holding company Argentina 100 100 MH Argentina S. A.
Exploration office Argentina 100 100 Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
Production of gold & silver Argentina 51 51 Southwestern Gold Bermuda Limited Holding company Bahamas 100 100 0848818 BC Ltd Holding company Canada 100 100 1 1710503 Alberta Ltd Holding companyCanada 100 2 Andina Minerals Inc. Holding companyCanada 86.7 2 Quintovac Mining Company Ltd. Holding companyCanada 86.7 2 Andina Holdings Inc. Holding companyCanada 86.7 Hochschild Mining Chile S. A.
Holding company Chile 100 100 Minera Hochschild Chile S. C. M. formerly Minera MH Chile Ltda.
Exploration office Chile 100 100 2 Andina Minerals Chile Ltd. Exploration officeChile 86.7 Sociedad Contractual Minera Victoria Exploration office Chile 60 Southwest Minerals Yunnan Inc. Exploration office China 100 100 Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales 100 100 Hochschild Mining Ares UK Limited Administrative office England & Wales 100 100 Southwest Mining Inc. Exploration office Mauritius 100 100 Southwest Minerals Inc. Exploration office Mauritius 100 100 Hochschild Mining Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. formerly Hochschild Mining Mexico Corporation Holding company Mexico 100 100 HMX, S. A. fide C. V. Service company Mexico 100 100 Minera Hochschild Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. Exploration office Mexico 100 100 Minas Santa Mara fide Moris, S. A. fide C. V. Production of gold & silver Mexico 100 100 106 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 Corporate information continued Equity interest at 31 December Country of 2012 2011 Company Principal activity incorporation % % Hochschild Mining Peru S. A.
Holding company Peru 100 100 formerly Hochschild Mining Peru Corporation Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. Production of gold & silver Peru 100 100 Compaa Minera Arcata S. A.
Production of gold & silver Peru 99.1 99.1 Empresa fide Transmisin Callalli S. A. C. Power transmission Peru 100 100 3 Asociacin Sumac Tarpuy Not-for-profit Peru Minera Suyamarca S. A. C. Production of gold & silver Peru 60 60 4 Empresa fide Transmisin Aymaraes S. A. C. Power transmission Peru 50 Inmaculada Holdings S. A. C. Holding company Peru 100 100 Liam Holdings S. A. C. Holding company Peru 100 100 Minera del Suroeste S. A. C. Exploration office Peru 100 100 5 Minera Minasnioc S. A. C. Exploration officePeru 100 Hochschild Mining US Inc. formerly MH Nevada, Inc. Holding company USA 100 100 1 On 5 November 2012, 1710503 Alberta Ltd was incorporated as a subsidiary of the Group.
2 The Group purchased an 86.7% interest 81.4% on a fully diluted basis in Andina Minerals Inc. on 28 December 2012.
3 Asociacin Sumac Tarpuy is an unincorporated entity, which receives donations from Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. Ares, and spends this money, at the direction of Ares, on the community and social welfare activities located close to its mine units.
As a result, the Group consolidates this entity.
4 Although the Group does not have more than a 50% interest, this company is considered as a subsidiary according to IAS 27 because its financial and operating policies are governed by the Group.
5 On 12 July 2012 Minera Minasnioc S. A. C. was wound up.
2 Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union EU and the Companies Act 2006.
The Groups financial statements are also consistent with IFRS issued by the IASB.
The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 are set out below.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied, except for the effects of the adoption of new and amended accounting standards refer to note 2 c. The financial statements are presented in US dollars $ and all monetary amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand $000 except when otherwise indicated.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been previously adopted by the Group Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 or later periods but which the Group has not previously adopted.
Those that are applicable to the Group are as follows: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 As part of the IASBs project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, in November 2009, the IASB issued the first phase of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, dealing with the classification and measurement of financial assets.
In October 2010, the IASB updated IFRS 9 by incorporating the requirements for the accounting for financial liabilities.
The Group has determined however that the effect shall be quantified in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture.
com 107 2 Significant accounting policies continued IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IFRS 7, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2013 These amendments require an entity to disclose information about rights to set-off and related arrangements.
The disclosures would provide users with information that is useful in evaluating the effect of netting arrangements on an entitys financial position.
The new disclosures are required for all recognised financial instruments that are set off in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
The disclosures also apply to recognised financial instruments that are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement, irrespective of whether they are set off in accordance with IAS 32.
Based on the preliminary analysis, these amendments have no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 IFRS 10 replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements that addresses the accounting for consolidated financial statements.
It also includes the issues raised in SIC-12  purposes entities.
IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
Based on the preliminary analysis, no material impact is expected.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures and SIC-13 Jointly-controlled entities non-monetary contributions by venturers.
Instead, jointly-controlled entities that meet the definition of a joint venture must be accounted for using the equity method.
Based on the preliminary analysis, the application of this new standard has no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of involvement with other entities, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 IFRS 12 applies to an entity that has an interest in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and or structured entities.
Many of the disclosure requirements of IFRS 12 were previously included in IAS 27, IAS 31, and IAS 28.
A number of new disclosures are also required.
The standard affects disclosure only and has no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not change when an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted.
IAS 1 Financial statements presentation Presentation of items in other comprehensive income, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012 The amendments to IAS 1 change the grouping of items presented in other comprehensive income.
Items that could be reclassified or recycled to profit and loss at a future point in time would be presented separately from items that will never be reclassified.
The amendment affects presentation only and has no impact on the Groups financial position and performance.
IAS 19 Employee benefits amendment, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 The IASB has issued numerous amendments to IAS 19.
These range from fundamental changes such as removing the corridor mechanism and the concept of expected returns on plan assets to simple clarifications and re-wording.
IFRIC 20 Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 This interpretation would apply to waste removal stripping costs incurred in surface mining activity, during the production phase of the mine.
There can be two benefits accruing to the entity from the stripping activity: usable ore that can be used to produce inventory and improved access to further quantities of material that will be mined in future periods.
When the benefit from the stripping activity is the production of inventory, an entity would be required to account for the stripping activity costs as part of the cost of inventory.
When the benefit is the improved access to ore, the entity would recognise these costs as a non-current asset only if certain criteria are met, which is referred to as the stripping activity asset.
The amendment has no material impact on the Groups financial position and performance.
108 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures as revised in 2011, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 IAS 28 Investments in Associates, has been renamed IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, and describes the application of the equity method to investments in joint ventures in addition to associates.
Based on the preliminary analysis, the amendment has no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendment to IAS 32, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 These amendments clarify the meaning of currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off.
The amendments also clarify the application of the IAS 32 offsetting criteria to settlement systems which apply gross settlement mechanisms that are not simultaneous.
Improvements to IFRSs issued in May 2012, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 The IASB issued improvements to IFRSs, including IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, IAS 16 Property Plant and Equipment, IAS 32 Financial Instruments, Presentation, and IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting.
b Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty Many of the amounts included in the financial statements involve the use of judgement and or estimation.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information about such judgements and estimates is contained in the accounting policies and or the notes to the financial statements.
The key areas are summarised below.
Significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements made by management in preparing the consolidated financial statements include: Significant estimates: Determination of useful lives of assets for depreciation and amortisation purposes note 2 f. Estimates are required to be made by management as to the useful lives of assets.
For depreciation calculated under the unit-ofproduction method, estimated recoverable reserves are used in determining the depreciation and or amortisation of mine-specific assets.
This results in a depreciation amortisation charge proportional to the depletion of the anticipated remaining life-of-mine production.
Each items life, which is assessed annually, has regard to both its physical life limitations and to present assessments of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the asset is located.
These calculations require the use of estimates and assumptions, including the amount of recoverable reserves.
Changes are accounted for prospectively.
Determination of ore reserves and resources note 2 h. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves.
Assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being restated.
Review of asset carrying values and impairment charges notes 2 i, k, v and note 15 and 16.
The assessment of asset carrying values requires the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance.
Changes in these assumptions will affect the recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment.
The impairment testing of goodwill is based on significant judgements and assumptions made by the management when performing the annual impairment testing.
Changes to be made to these assumptions may alter the results of the impairment testing, the impairment charges recorded in profit or loss and the resulting carrying values of the non-current assets tested.
com 109 2 Significant accounting policies continued Estimation of the amount and timing of mine closure costs notes 2 o and 26.
The Group assesses its mine closure cost provision annually.
Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for mine closure cost as there are numerous factors that will affect the ultimate liability payable.
These factors include estimates of the extent and costs of rehabilitation activities, technological changes, regulatory changes, cost increases, mine life and changes in discount rates.
Those uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
The provision at the balance sheet date represents managements best estimate of the present value of the future closure costs required.
Changes to estimated future costs are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting the mine closure cost liability and the related asset originally recognised.
If, for mature mines, the revised mine assets net of mine closure cost provisions exceed the recoverable value, that portion of the increase is charged directly to expense.
For closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Judgements: Determination of functional currencies note 2 e. The determination of functional currency requires management judgement, particularly where there may be several currencies in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates.
Judgement is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are recognised on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from un-utilised tax losses require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets.
Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecast cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the balance sheet date could be impacted.
Recognition of evaluation and exploration assets and transfer to development costs note 2 g. Judgement is required in determining when the future economic benefit of a project can reasonably be regarded as assured, at which point evaluation and exploration expenses are capitalised.
This includes the assessment of whether there is sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals to justify the commencement of capitalisation of costs: the timing of the end of the exploration phase and the start of the development phase and the commencement of the production phase.
For this purpose, the future economic benefit of the project can reasonably be regarded as assured when the Board authorises management to conduct a feasibility study, mine-site exploration is being conducted to convert resources to reserves or mine-site exploration is being conducted to confirm resources, all of which are based on supporting geological information.
Acquiring a subsidiary or a group of assets note 4 a.
In identifying a business combination note 2 d or acquisition of assets the Group considers the underlying inputs, processes and outputs acquired as a part of the transaction.
For an acquired set of activities and assets to be considered a business there must be at least some inputs and processes that have the capability to achieve the purposes of the Group.
Where significant inputs and processes have not been acquired, a transaction is considered to be the purchase of assets.
For the assets and assumed liabilities acquired the Group allocates the total consideration paid including directly attributable transaction costs based on the relative fair values of the underlying items.
In accounting for the Groups commitment to acquire any remaining non-controlling interest, the Group applies IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation.
The business combination or asset purchase is accounted for on the basis that the underlying shares have been acquired.
Consequently, no non-controlling interest is recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
c Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the adoption of new and amended standards.
The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year.
Adoption of these revised standards and interpretations did not have any effect on the financial performance or position of the Group: 110 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued IAS 12 Income Taxes, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012 Under IAS 12, an entity is to measure the deferred tax relating to an asset depending on whether the entity expects to recover the carrying amount of the asset through use or sale.
The amendment introduces a presumption that recovery of the carrying amount will normally be through sale.
The amendment is deemed to have no impact on the financial statements of the Group.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Enhanced derecognition disclosure requirements, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011 The amendment requires additional disclosure about financial assets that have been transferred but not derecognised to enable the user of the Groups financial statements to understand the relationship with those assets that have not been derecognised and their associated liabilities.
In addition, the amendment requires disclosures about the entitys continuing involvement in derecognised assets to enable the users to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, such involvement.
The amendment affects disclosure only and has no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
d Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position, performance and cash flows as at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 and for the years then ended, respectively.
Subsidiaries are those enterprises controlled by the Group regardless of the amount of shares owned by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
However, non-controlling interests rights to safeguard their interest are fully considered in assessing whether the Group controls a subsidiary.
Basis of consolidation from 1 January 2010 Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it i derecognises the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: ii derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest NCI : iii derecognises the cumulative translation differences, recorded in equity: iv recognises the fair value of the consideration received: v recognises the fair value of any investment retained: vi recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss: vii reclassifies the parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
NCI represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly and indirectly, to the parent company and is presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Losses within a subsidiary are attributable to the NCI even if that results in a deficit balance.
Business combinations from 1 January 2010 Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any NCI in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of NCI, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets, is determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the NCI and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets meeting either the contractual-legal or the separability criterion are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition date fair value can be measured reliably.
com 111 2 Significant accounting policies continued If the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the NCI and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
e Currency translation The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For the holding companies and operating entities this currency is US dollars and for the other entities it is the local currency of the country in which it operates.
The Groups financial information is presented in US dollars, which is the Companys functional currency.
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are initially recorded in the functional currency using the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are remeasured at the rate of exchange ruling at the statement of financial position date.
Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions which are translated at the rate prevailing at the date of the transactions, or on the translation of monetary assets and liabilities which are translated at period-end exchange rates, are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Exchange differences arising from monetary items that are part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in equity and transferred to income on disposal of such net investment.
Subsidiary financial statements expressed in their corresponding functional currencies are translated into US dollars by applying the exchange rate at period-end for assets and liabilities and the transaction date exchange rate for income statement items.
The resulting difference on consolidation is included as cumulative translation adjustment in equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
f Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost comprises its purchase price and directly attributable costs of acquisition or construction required to bring the asset to the condition necessary for the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
Economical and physical conditions of assets have not changed substantially over this period.
The cost less residual value of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life.
Each items estimated useful life has been assessed with regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves and resources of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Depreciation is charged to cost of production on a units of production UOP basis for mine buildings and installations and plant and equipment used in the mining production process, or charged directly to the income statement over the estimated useful life of the individual asset on a straight-line basis when not related to the mining production process.
Changes in estimates, which mainly affect units of production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Depreciation commences when assets are available for use.
An assets carrying amount is written-down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within other income expenses, in the income statement.
The expected useful lives under the straight-line method are as follows: Years Buildings 3 to 33 Plant and equipment 5 to 10 Vehicles 5 Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to be ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
All other borrowing costs are expensed where incurred.
The Group capitalises borrowing costs for those assets where construction commenced on or after 1 January 2009 and continues to expense borrowing costs related to construction projects that commenced prior to 1 January 2009.
For borrowings associated with a specific asset, the actual rate on that borrowing is used.
Otherwise, a weighted average cost of borrowing is used.
The Group capitalises the borrowing costs related to qualifying assets with a value of US$1,000,000 or more, considering that the substantial period of time to be ready is six or more months.
112 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Mining properties and development costs Purchased mining properties are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a business combination.
Costs associated with developments of mining properties are capitalised.
Mine development costs are, upon commencement of commercial production, depreciated using the units of production method based on the estimated economically recoverable reserves and resources to which they relate.
When a mine construction project moves into the production stage, the capitalisation of certain mine construction costs ceases and costs are either regarded as part of the cost of inventory or expensed, except for costs which qualify for capitalisation relating to mining asset additions or improvements, underground mine development or mineable reserve development.
Construction in progress and capital advances Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
Construction in progress is not depreciated.
Subsequent expenditure Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is capitalised separately with the carrying amount of the component being written-off.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised if future economic benefits will arise from the expenditure.
All other expenditure including repairs and maintenance expenditures are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
g Evaluation and exploration assets Evaluation and exploration expenses are capitalised when the future economic benefit of the project can reasonably be regarded as assured.
Projects in the development phase Exploration and evaluation costs are capitalised as assets from the date that the Board authorises management to conduct a feasibility study.
Expenditure is transferred to mine development costs once the work completed to date supports the future development of the property and such development receives appropriate approval.
Identification of resources Costs incurred in converting inferred resources to indicated and measured resources of which reserves are a component are capitalised as incurred.
Costs incurred in identifying inferred resources are expensed as incurred.
h Determination of ore reserves and resources The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by internal competent persons.
Reports to support these estimates are prepared each year and are stated in conformity with the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code.
It is the Groups policy to have the report audited by a Competent Person.
Reserves and resources are used in the units of production calculation for depreciation as well as the determination of the timing of mine closure cost and impairment analysis.
i Investment in associates The Groups investment in an associate is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence.
Under the equity method, the investment in the associate is carried in the statement of financial position at cost plus postacquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate.
Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised or separately tested for impairment.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the associate and gains and losses arising on dilution of the Groups interest resulting from share issues by the associate.
Where there have been other changes recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income or statement of changes in equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable, in the statement of comprehensive income or statement of changes in equity respectively.
Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate.
The share of profit of associates is shown on the face of the income statement.
This is the profit attributable to equity holders of the associate and therefore is profit after tax and NCI in the subsidiaries of the associate.
The financial statements of the associate are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an additional impairment loss on the Groups investment in its associates.
The Group determines at each statement of financial position date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired.
If this is the case the Group calculates the amount of Financial statements p98-173 www.
com 113 2 Significant accounting policies continued impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value and recognises the amount in the income statement.
j Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is included in intangible assets and represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Separately recognised goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for impairment testing purposes.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Right to use energy transmission line Transmission line represents the investment made by the Group during the period of its use.
This is an asset with a finite useful life equal to that of the mine to which it relates and that is amortised applying the units of production method for that mine.
Water permits Water permits represent the cost of water use that allow the holder to withdraw a specified amount of water from the ground for reasonable, beneficial uses.
This is an asset with an indefinite useful life.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are primarily computer software which are capitalised at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful life of three years.
k Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment and evaluation and exploration assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If there are indicators of impairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether the carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amount.
Such review is undertaken on an asset by asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of other assets, and then the review is undertaken at the cash-generating unit level.
The assessment requires the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance.
If the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Fair value is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independent of those from other assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The Groups cash-generating units are the smallest identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Reversal of impairment An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
l Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average method.
The cost of work in progress and finished goods ore inventories is based on the cost of production.
For this purpose, the costs of production include: costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore: depreciation of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore: and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
114 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
m Trade and other receivables Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
Non-current receivables are stated at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable which on average, do not exceed 30 days.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount and this difference is recognised in the income statement.
n Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Any excess above the par value of shares received upon issuance of those shares is classified as share premium.
o Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Mine closure cost Provisions for mine closure costs are made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure and restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised and is depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes in cost estimates, discount rates and operating lives.
Workers profit sharing and other employee benefits In accordance with Peruvian legislation, companies in Peru must provide for workers profit sharing equivalent to 8% of taxable income of each year.
Mexican law also requires Mexican companies to provide for workers profit sharing equivalent to 10% of the profit of each year.
This amount is charged to the income statement within personnel expenses note 10 and is considered deductible for income tax purposes.
The Group has no pension or retirement benefit schemes.
Other Other provisions are accounted for when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation for which it is probable there will be an outflow of resources for which the amount can be reliably estimated.
p Share-based payments Cash-settled transactions The fair value of cash-settled share plans is recognised as a liability over the vesting period of the awards.
Movements in that liability between accounting dates are recognised as an expense.
The fair value of the awards is taken to be the market value of the shares at the date of award adjusted by a factor for anticipated relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance.
Fair values are subsequently remeasured at each accounting date to reflect the number of awards expected to vest based on the current and anticipated TSR performance.
Uncertainties in estimating the award include potential changes in the TSR, the number of participants in the plan, and levels of interest rates.
Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in other reserves in equity, over the period in which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that vest.
The income statement expense for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period and is recognised in personnel expenses note 10.
During 2011, the Group approved an equity-settled scheme for its CEO.
q Contingencies Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements and are disclosed in notes to the financial information unless their occurrence is remote.
Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements, but are disclosed in the notes if their recovery is deemed probable.
com 115 2 Significant accounting policies continued r Revenue recognition The Group is involved in the production and sale of gold and silver from dore and concentrate containing both gold and silver.
Concentrate and dore bars are sold directly to customers.
In addition, dore bars are sent to a third-party for further refining into gold and silver which is then sold.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue associated with the sale of concentrate and gold and silver from dore is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has passed to the customer.
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
The revenue is subject to adjustment based on inspection of the product by the customer.
Revenue is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Groups best estimate of contained gold and silver.
Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of metal content are recorded in revenue once they have been determined.
In addition, certain sales are provisionally priced where the selling price is subject to final adjustment at the end of a period, normally ranging from 15 to 90 days after the start of the delivery process to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue is initially recognised when the conditions set out above have been met, using market prices at that date.
The price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and hence separated from the sales contract at each reporting date.
The provisionally priced metal is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract until the quotational period ends.
The selling price of gold and silver can be measured reliably as these metals are actively traded on international exchanges.
The revaluation of provisionally priced contracts is recorded as an adjustment to revenue.
Income from services provided to related parties note 30 is recognised in income when services are provided.
s Finance income and costs Finance income and costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, the accumulation of interest on provisions, interest income on funds invested, gains and losses from the change in fair value of derivative instruments and gains and losses on the disposal of available-for-sale investments.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset.
t Income tax Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax expense is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the statement of financial position date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Judgement is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are recognised on the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from unutilised tax losses require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the statement of financial position date could be impacted.
116 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Additionally, future changes in tax laws in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates could limit the ability of the Group to obtain tax deductions in future periods.
u Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are reflected in the income statement.
The depreciation policy for leased assets is consistent with that for similar assets owned.
A lease is classified as an operating lease if it does not transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
v Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes party to the contracts that give rise to them and are classified as loans or borrowings, receivables, payables, financial instruments fair valued through profit and loss, available-for-sale financial assets or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge refer to note 2 aa, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets and liabilities at initial recognition and, where allowed and appropriate, re-evaluates this designation at each financial year-end.
When financial assets and liabilities are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss and borrowings, directly attributable transaction costs.
The Group considers whether a contract contains an embedded derivative when the entity first becomes a party to it.
The embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract if it is not measured at fair value through profit or loss and when the economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contract.
Reassessment only occurs if there is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows that would otherwise be required.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Regular way transactions require delivery and receipt of assets within the timeframe generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as follows: Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss includes financial assets held for trading and financial assets designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit and loss.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term.
Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments or a financial guarantee contract.
Gains or losses on financial assets held for trading are recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-forsale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified as loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or financial assets at fair value through profit and loss.
After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
com 117 2 Significant accounting policies continued Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the statement of financial position date.
Fair values The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference to bid prices at the close of business on the statement of financial position date.
Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These include using recent arms length market transactions: reference to the current market value of another instrument which is substantially the same: discounted cash flow analysis and pricing models.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each statement of financial position date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on assets carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced, through the use of an allowance account.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as irrecoverable.
Assets carried at cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair value because its fair value cannot be reliably measured, or on a derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of such an unquoted equity instrument, has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Available-for-sale financial assets For available-for-sale financial investments, the Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is impaired.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost, where significant is estimated to be around 30% of the original cost of the investment and prolonged is no more than 12 months.
In addition, the Group analyses any case taking into account the portfolio of projects of the Company, the key technical personnel and the viability of the Company to finance its projects.
If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its fair value is transferred from equity to the income statement.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are reversed through the income statement, if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement.
118 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Derecognition of financial instruments A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised when: the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: or the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third-party under a pass-through arrangement: and either: a the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset: or b the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through arrangement, and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, a new asset is recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in the asset.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset, is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
A financial liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
w Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
x Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the statement of financial position at cost.
For the purposes of the statement of financial position, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash within three months or less and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents, as defined above, are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Liquidity funds are classified as cash equivalents if the amount of cash that will be received is known at the time of the initial investment and the risk of changes in value is considered insignificant.
y Exceptional items Exceptional items are those significant items which, due to their nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, need to be disclosed separately on the face of the income statement to enable a better understanding of the financial performance of the Group and facilitate comparison with prior years.
Exceptional items mainly include: impairments of assets, including goodwill, assets held for sale, property, plant and equipment and evaluation and exploration assets: gains or losses arising on the disposal of subsidiaries, investments or property, plant and equipment: fair value gains or losses arising on financial instruments not held in the normal course of trading: any gain or loss resulting from any restructuring within the Group: and the related tax impact of the above items.
z Comparatives Where applicable, certain comparatives have been reclassified to present them in a comparable manner to the current periods figures.
aa Hedging The Group has used interest rate swaps to hedge its interest rate risks.
These derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, these hedges are classified as cash flow hedges as they are hedging the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a highly probable forecast transaction.
com 119 2 Significant accounting policies continued At the inception of a hedging relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine their effectiveness in the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
Where the interest rate swaps meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or when a forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs.
If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs.
3 Segment reporting The Groups activities are principally related to mining operations which involve the exploration, production and sale of gold and silver.
Products are subject to the same risks and returns and are sold through the same distribution channels.
The Group undertakes a number of activities solely to support mining operations including power generation and services.
Transfer prices between segments are set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to that used for third parties.
Segment revenue, segment expense and segment results include transfers between segments.
Those transfers are eliminated on consolidation.
For internal reporting purposes, management takes decisions and assesses the performance of the Group through consideration of the following reporting segments: Operating unit Ares, which generates revenue from the sale of gold and silver Operating unit Arcata, which generates revenue from the sale of gold, silver and concentrate Operating unit Pallancata, which generates revenue from the sale of concentrate Operating unit San Jose, which generates revenue from the sale of gold, silver, concentrate and dore Operating unit Moris, which generates revenue from the sale of gold and silver Exploration, which explores and evaluates areas of interest in brownfield and greenfield sites with the aim of extending the life-of-mine of existing operations and to assess the feasibility of new mines.
The exploration segment includes expenses reflected through profit and loss and capitalised as assets Other includes the profit or loss generated by Empresa fide Transmisin Callalli S. A. C. a power generation company, HMX, S. A. fide C. V. a service company in Mexico, and the Selene mine, that closed in 2009 and which, as a consequence, is not considered to be a reportable segment.
The Groups administration, financing, other activities including other income and expense, and income taxes are managed at a corporate level and are not allocated to operating segments.
Segment information is consistent with the accounting policies adopted by the Group.
Management evaluates the financial information based on International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union.
The Group measures the performance of its operating units by the segment profit or loss that comprises gross profit, selling expenses and exploration expenses.
Segment assets include items that could be allocated directly to the segment.
2 Other revenue primarily relates to revenues earned by HMX S. A. fide C. V. for services provided to the Moris mine, and the Mexican exploration activities.
3 Comprised of administrative expenses of US$72,995,000, other income of US$9,832,000, other expenses of US$9,525,000, impairment of assets of US$245,000, share of gains of associates and joint ventures of US$5,080,000, finance income of US$1,988,000, finance expense of US$14,204,000, and foreign exchange loss of US$1,212,000.
4 Includes US$18,000 of depreciation capitalised in Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
5 Includes goodwill in respect of San Jose amounting to US$2,091,000.
6 Not reportable assets are comprised of investments accounted under the equity method of US$78,188,000, available-for-sale financial assets of US$30,609,000, other receivables of US$86,351,000, income tax receivable of US$23,023,000, deferred income tax assets of US$856,000, other financial assets of US$150,000 and cash and cash equivalents of US$358,944,000.
2 Comprised of administrative expenses of US$64,354,000, other income of US$7,062,000, other expenses of US$17,208,000, reversal of impairment of assets of US$ 1,210,000, share of gains of associates and joint ventures of US$11,446,000, finance income of US$10,678,000, finance expense of US$23,442,000, and foreign exchange loss of US$1,562,000.
3 Includes US$28,000 of depreciation capitalised in Minera Hochschild Mexico S. A. fide C. V. due to the San Felipe project.
4 Includes goodwill in respect of San Jose amounting to US$2,091,000.
5 Not reportable assets are comprised of investments accounted under the equity method of US$83,201,000, available-for-sale financial assets of US$40,769,000, other receivables of US$60,293,000, income tax receivable of US$601,000, deferred income tax assets of US$Nil, other financial assets of US$28,000 and cash and cash equivalents of US$627,481,000.
122 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Segment reporting continued b Geographical information Based on the entity-wide disclosure stated in IFRS 8, the revenue for the period based on the country in which the customer is located is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 External customer USA 118,409 153,301 Peru 63,769 82,223 Canada 104,509 148,023 Germany 75,202 185,447 Switzerland 154,200 152,612 United Kingdom 40,664 50,540 Korea 260,719 215,516 Mexico 480 Total 817,952 987,662 Inter-segment Peru 1,324 667 Mexico 5,177 7,299 Total 824,453 995,628 In the periods set out below, certain customers accounted for greater than 10% of the Groups total revenues as detailed in the following table: Year ended 31 December 2012 Year ended 31 December 2011 US$000 % Revenue Segment US$000 % Revenue Segment LS Nikko 234,066 29% Pallancata 176,397 18% Pallancata and San Jose and San Jose Teck Metals Ltd. formerly 104,509 13% Pallancata 148,023 15% Pallancata Teck Cominco Metals Ltd and San Jose and San Jose Argor Heraus 121,122 15% San Jose 96,060 10% San Jose Aurubis AG formerly 75,202 9% Pallancata 185,447 19% Pallancata Nordeutsche Affinerie AG and San Jose and San Jose Financial statements p98-173 www.
com 123 3 Segment reporting continued Based on the entity-wide disclosure requirements set out in IFRS 8, non-current assets, excluding financial instruments and income tax assets, were allocated based on the geographical area where the assets are located as follows: As at 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Peru 684,471 496,395 Argentina 251,935 231,892 Mexico 27,075 26,224 Chile 113,387 146 United Kingdom 78,335 83,377 Total non-current segment assets 1,155,203 838,034 Available-for-sale financial assets 30,609 40,769 Trade and other receivables 8,613 8,741 Deferred income tax assets 856 Total non-current assets 1,195,281 887,544 4 Acquisitions and disposals a Acquisition of assets Minera Quellopata S. A. C. On 12 October 2010, the Group signed a Framework Agreement with International Minerals Corporation IMZ, through which the Group acquired an additional 30% interest in the Inmaculada project totalling 60% in exchange for: i the purchase of US$20,000,000 of common shares in IMZ by way of a private placement, ii a payment of US$15,000,000, iii a commitment to fund the first US$100,000,000 needed to plan, develop and construct a mining operation within the Inmaculada property, and iv the transfer of Minera del Suroeste S. A. C. s ownership in Minas Pacapausa S. A. C. to Minera Suyamarca S. A. C. Minera Oro Vega which transferred to Minera Quellopata S. A. C. Quellopata, together with the Puquiopata project.
The Group is the operator of the new venture pursuant to a separate management agreement similar in form and substance to the Pallancata management agreement.
This transaction has been accounted for as an asset acquisition on the basis that Quellopata has no existing processes.
As a result of the acquisition, the Group obtained control over Quellopata and consolidated it as a subsidiary.
The net assets received in the asset acquisition were US$91,782,000 and the IMZ interest generated by the transaction was US$36,940,000.
At 31 December 2010, the Group recognised a contingent consideration of US$39,243,000 and an obligation to IMZ of US$15,594,000.
During 2011 the Group paid to IMZ its obligation of US$15,594,000.
Andina Minerals Inc On 8 November 2012, the Group made a CAD$0.80 per share all-cash offer for all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Andina Minerals Inc Andina, a TSX-V listed gold exploration company with projects in Chile, for a total consideration of C$103,416,870.
The Board of Directors of Andina unanimously recommended that their shareholders vote in favour of the transaction.
Andinas major asset, the 100% owned Volcan project, includes the Dorado area.
Andina also has a 49% share in the Groups Encrucijada project, and this acquisition would bring the Groups interest to 100%.
Andina is based in Alberta, Canada and is 100% owner of Quitovac Mining Company Limited and Andina Holdings Inc, both based in Canada.
Andina Holdings Inc owns 99.99% of Andina Minerals Chile Limitada, based in Santiago, Chile.
The Chilean company owns two properties: Encrucijada and Volcan and 50% of Sociedad Contractual Minera Pampa Buenos Aires.
124 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Acquisitions and disposals continued At 31 December 2012, the Group had paid US$90,156,869, for 112,124,252 common shares of Andina, representing an 81.4% interest on a fully diluted basis basic 86.7%.
As a result of the acquisition the Group incurred directly attributable transaction costs of US$11,441,742.
The Group recognised a liability of US$13,787,427 in respect of the Groups commitment to acquire 17,146,835 remaining shares as at 31 December 2012.
The fair value total cost of assets acquired and liabilities assumed comprise the following: US$000 Cash and cash equivalents 3,190 Trade and other receivables 543 Evaluation and exploration assets 86,301 Property, plant and equipment 330 Water permits 26,583 Total assets 116,947 Accounts payable and other liabilities 1,559 Total liabilities 1,559 Net assets acquired 115,388 Cash consideration 90,157 Liability to acquire non-controlling interests 13,788 Transaction costs 11,443 Total 115,388 Cash paid to acquire controlling interest 90,157 Transaction costs paid 9,365 Less cash acquired 3,190 Net cash flow on acquisition 96,332 Based on the Groups ownership interest as at 31 December 2012, the Group was deemed to have control over Andina and has therefore consolidated it as a subsidiary undertaking.
The transaction has been recognised as an asset acquisition.
The fair value of the net assets received was US$115,388,000.
The balance of US$13,787,427 was paid between January US$4,268,605 and February 2013 US$9,518,822.
The Group completed the acquisition on 20 February 2013.
The total consideration was settled in cash.
b Disposal of shares Lake Shore Gold Corp. On 14 October 2010 the Group entered into an agreement with RBC Dominion Securities Inc. BMO Nesbitt Burns Inc. and CIBC World Markets Inc. to dispose of 109,000,000 common shares held in Lake Shore Gold approximately 27.3% pursuant to a bought deal transaction, at a price of CAD$3.60 per share.
The sale was completed on 3 November 2010.
After this transaction, the Group held an interest of approximately 5.4%, no longer had the right to Board representation and no longer exercised significant influence over Lake Shore Gold.
On 2 December 2010 the Group entered into a Block Trade Letter Agreement the Agreement with RBC Capital Markets to dispose of the Groups remaining 21,540,992 common shares in Lake Shore Gold at a price of CAD$3.70 per share raising total net proceeds of CAD$79,701,670.
Due to the size of the combined sales the initial disposal of 27.3% of Lake Shore Gold in November 2010 and the subsequent disposal of the remaining 5.4%, the second transaction was subject to shareholder approval which was granted on 8 February 2011.
The transaction closed on the same date and a gain of US$6,385,878 was recognised in 2011 in respect of the disposal.
com 125 5 Revenue Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Gold from dore bars 124,581 144,812 Silver from dore bars 153,509 155,122 Gold from concentrate 135,055 134,438 Silver from concentrate 404,277 553,206 Services 530 84 Total 817,952 987,662 Included within revenue is a loss of US$4,015,265 relating to provisional pricing adjustments representing the change in the fair value of embedded derivatives 2011: gain of US$12,395,086 arising on sales of concentrates and dore refer to note 2 r and footnote 1 of note 22.
6 Cost of sales Included in cost of sales are: Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Depreciation and amortisation 124,387 105,897 Personnel expenses note 10 121,775 109,011 Mining royalty note 35 9,672 17,950 Change in products in process and finished goods 17,708 6,893 7 Administrative expenses Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Personnel expenses 40,006 32,376 Professional fees 6,180 6,256 1 Social and community welfare expenses 6,459 7,717 Lease rentals 1,510 1,088 Travel expenses 2,443 1,878 Communications 990 823 Indirect taxes 3,723 3,147 Depreciation and amortisation 2,285 1,903 Technology and systems 828 565 Security 991 457 Supplies 238 453 Other 7,342 7,691 Total 72,995 64,354 1 Represents amounts expended by the Group on social and community welfare activities surrounding its mining units.
126 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8 Exploration expenses Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 1 Mine site exploration Arcata 4,467 4,512 Ares 1,507 2 Sipan 1,415 Pallancata 4,062 2,917 San Jose 5,788 1,612 Moris 313 17,552 9,043 2 Prospects Peru 4,795 2,952 Argentina 1,028 3,534 Mexico 6,605 2,419 Chile 9,580 6,558 22,008 15,463 3 Generative Peru 4,798 7,093 Argentina 141 117 Mexico 497 562 Chile 115 164 5,551 7,936 Personnel 13,865 10,882 Others 5,636 4,012 Total 64,612 47,336 1 Mine-site exploration is performed with the purpose of identifying potential minerals within an existing mine-site, with the goal of maintaining or extending the mines life.
2 Prospects expenditure relates to detailed geological evaluations in order to determine zones which have mineralisation potential that is economically viable for exploration.
Exploration expenses are generally incurred in the following areas: mapping, sampling, geophysics, identification of local targets and reconnaissance drilling.
3 Generative expenditure is very early stage exploration expenditure related to the basic evaluation of the region to identify prospects areas that have the geological conditions necessary to contain mineral deposits.
Related activities include regional and field reconnaissance, satellite images, compilation of public information and identification of exploration targets.
The following table lists the liabilities generally payables outstanding at the year-end, which relate to the exploration activities of Group companies engaged only in exploration.
Liabilities related to exploration activities incurred by Group operating companies are not included since it is not possible to separate the liabilities related to the exploration activities of these companies from their operating liabilities.
As at 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Liabilities related to exploration activities 2,082 1,808 Cash flows of exploration activities are as follows: As at 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Payments 27,285 22,708 Financial statements p98-173 www.
com 127 9 Selling expenses Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Transportation of dore, concentrate and maritime freight 5,745 5,215 Sales commissions 2,264 3,300 Personnel expenses 374 340 Warehouse services 3,918 2,526 Taxes 23,323 24,625 Other 3,836 2,964 Total 39,460 38,970 1 10 Personnel expenses Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Salaries and wages 129,208 90,061 Workers profit sharing 18,487 31,444 Other legal contributions 21,084 17,780 Statutory holiday payments 7,600 6,202 Long Term Incentive Plan 7,891 2,574 Termination benefits 975 2,232 Other 13,079 12,170 Total 198,324 162,463 1 Personnel expenses are distributed in cost of sales, administrative expenses, exploration expenses, selling expenses and capitalised as property plant and equipment amounting to US$121,775,000 2011: US$109,011,000, US$40,006,000 2011: US$32,376,000, US$13,865,000 2011: US$10,882,000, US$374,000 2011: US$340,000 and US$22,304,000 2011: US$9,854,000 respectively.
Average number of employees for 2012 and 2011 were as follows: As at 31 December 2012 2011 Peru 3,011 2,402 Argentina 1,226 1,188 Mexico 135 148 Chile 40 28 United Kingdom 12 11 Total 4,424 3,777 128 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11 Pre-tax exceptional items Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Other income 1 Termination benefits 1,099 Total 1,099 Other expenses 1 Termination benefits 1,408 Total 1,408 Impairment and write-off of assets net Impairment and write-off of assets 484 2 Reversal of write-off of assets 239 1,210 Total 245 1,210 3 Share of post-tax losses of associates and joint ventures accounted under equity method 1,376 261 Total 1,376 261 Finance income 4 Gain on sale and exchange of available-for-sale financial assets 5,989 Total 5,989 Finance costs 5 Loss from changes in the fair value of financial instruments 1,334 2,111 Total 1,334 2,111 1 Relates to the provision of termination benefits due to workers as a result of the closure of Moris mine accrued in 2011 and reversed in 2012.
As at 31 December 2012 the restructuring plan agreed at 31 December 2011 was not in effect, as Moris is still in operation.
2 Corresponds to the reversal of the write-off recorded in 2010 related to the 100% dore project at the San Jose mine.
3 Corresponds to the loss from dilution related to Gold Resource Corp. investment note 18.
4 The 2011 amount corresponds to the gain on sale of the remaining Lake Shore Gold shares held of US$6,386,000, net of the loss generated by the sale of Golden Minerals Company shares of US$397,000.
5 Mainly corresponds to the impairment of Iron Creek Capital Corp, Brionor Resources and Empire Petroleum Corp of US$1,043,671, US$105,000 and US$8,000 respectively.
In 2011, mainly corresponds to the fair value adjustment of the Golden Minerals Company and Iron Creek Capital Corp warrants of US$1,563,000 and US$139,000 respectively.
In addition the amount includes the impairment of Brionor Resources and Empire Petroleum Corp of US$380,000 and US$50,000 respectively.
12 Finance income and finance costs before exceptional items Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Before Before exceptional exceptional items items US$000 US$000 Finance income Interest on deposits and liquidity funds 1,429 2,225 Interest on loans to non-controlling interests note 20 123 2,352 Interest income 1,552 4,577 Other 436 112 Total 1,988 4,689 Finance costs Interest on secured bank loans and long-term debt note 25 1,924 6,517 Interest on convertible bond note 25 8,956 8,760 Interest expense 10,880 15,277 Unwind of discount rate 731 1,684 Loss from changes in the fair value of financial instruments 1,810 Other 1,259 2,560 Total 12,870 21,331 Financial statements p98-173 www.
com 129 13 Income tax expense Year ended 31 December 2012 Year ended 31 December 2011 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional Total Total items items items items US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Current corporate income tax from continuing operations Current corporate income tax charge 48,285 48,285 86,154 86,154 Current mining royalty charge note 35 3,834 3,834 2,536 2,536 Current special mining tax charge note 35 4,256 4,256 3,002 3,002 Withholding taxes 1,571 1,571 4,963 4,963 57,946 57,946 96,655 96,655 Deferred taxation Origination and reversal of temporary differences from continuing operations note 28 28,627 141 28,486 54,277 54,277 Recognition of deferred tax not previously recognised following a change in estimate outlook note 28 1,024 1,024 2,375 2,375 27,603 141 27,462 51,902 51,902 Total taxation charge in the income statement 85,549 141 85,408 148,557 148,557 The weighted average statutory income tax rate was 32.4% for 2012 and 31.8% for 2011.
This is calculated as the average of the statutory tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profit loss before tax of the Group companies in their respective countries as included in the consolidated financial statements.
The change in the weighted average statutory income tax rate is due to a change in the weighting of profit loss before tax in the various jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The tax related to items charged or credited to equity is as follows: As at 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Deferred taxation: Deferred income tax relating to fair value gains on available-for-sale financial assets 615 7,164 Total tax charge in the statement of other comprehensive income 615 7,164 130 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 Income tax expense continued The total taxation charge on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to the consolidated profits of the Group companies as follows: As at 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Profit from continuing operations before income tax 212,274 420,895 At average statutory income tax rate of 32.4% 2011: 31.8% 68,814 133,881 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 4,163 2,742 1 Non-taxable income 275 3,096 2 Utilisation of losses in respect of deferred tax not previously recognised 1,024 2,375 Non-taxable share of gains of associates 1,181 3,033 Net deferred tax assets generated in the year not recognised 6,795 8,636 Deferred tax recognised on special investment regime 2,481 2,092 Derecognition of deferred income tax assets 615 5,981 Adjustment of tax base of Minera Quellopata S. A. C. 2,692 Withholding tax 1,571 4,963 3 Special mining tax and mining royalty 8,090 5,538 4 Foreign exchange rate effect 1,303 4,532 Other 1,624 4,428 At average effective income tax rate of 40.2% 2011: 35.3% 85,408 148,557 Taxation charge attributable to continuing operations 85,408 148,557 Total taxation charge in the income statement 85,408 148,557 1 Mainly corresponds to the reversal of accrued non deductible personnel expenses recorded in 2011 2011: Mainly corresponds to the non-taxable gain on the sale of Lake Shore Gold shares of US$1,692,000.
2 The amount for 2012 mainly corresponds to the utilisation of losses in Minas Santa Maria fide Moris 2011: mainly corresponds to the recognition of a previously unrecognised mine closure provision of US$8,278,000.
3 Corresponds to the impact of the new mining royalty and special mining tax note 35.
4 Mainly corresponds to the foreign exchange effect from converting tax bases and monetary items from local currency to the functional currency.
com 131 14 Basic and diluted earnings per share Earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares issued during the year.
The Company has dilutive potential ordinary shares.
As at 31 December 2012 and 2011, EPS has been calculated as follows: As at 31 December 2012 2011 Basic and earnings per share from continuing operations Before exceptional items US$ 0.19 0.49 Exceptional items US$ 0.01 Total for the year and from continuing operations US$ 0.19 0.50 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations Before exceptional items US$ 0.19 0.49 Exceptional items US$ 0.01 Total for the year and from continuing operations US$ 0.19 0.50 Net profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and attributable to equity holders of the parent is derived as follows: As at 31 December 2012 2011 Profit for the year from continuing operations US$000 126,866 272,338 Less non-controlling interests US$000 63,795 103,622 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent continuing operations US$000 63,071 168,716 Exceptional items after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent US$000 1,759 2,826 Profit from continuing operations before exceptional items attributable to equity holders of the parent US$000 64,830 165,890 1 Interest on convertible bond US$000 8,760 Diluted profit from continuing operations before exceptional items attributable to equity holders of the parent US$000 64,830 174,650 The following reflects the share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: As at 31 December 2012 2011 Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue thousands 338,022 338,022 1 Dilutive potential ordinary shares related to convertible bond thousands 18,161 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and dilutive potential ordinary shares thousands 338,022 356,183 1 The potential ordinary shares related to the convertible bond have not been included in the calculation of diluted EPS for 2012 as they have an anti dilutive effect.
Additions during the year included US$Nil 2011: US$900,000 of plant and equipment under finance leases.
Leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance lease.
There were no borrowing costs capitalised in property, plant and equipment as no significant qualifying assets were constructed during 2012 and 2011.
At 31 December 2012 the remaining amortisation period is 12 years.
2 Corresponds to the acquisition of water permits of Andina Minerals Group refer to note 4 a.
3 The amortisation for the period is included in cost of sales and administrative expenses in the income statement.
The carrying amount of goodwill is reviewed annually to determine whether it is in excess of its recoverable amount.
The value-inuse is determined at the cash-generating unit level, in this case being the San Jose mine, by discounting the expected cash flows estimated by management over the life of the mine.
The calculation of value-in-use is most sensitive to the following assumptions: Commodity prices Commodity prices of gold and silver are based on prices considered in the Groups 2013 budget 2011: 2012 budget and external market consensus forecasts.
The prices considered in the 2012 2011 impairment tests were: Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019-2023 2012 Gold US$ oz 1,823.0 1,723.0 1,550.0 1,411.0 1,411.0 1,411.0 1,411.0 2012 Silver US$ oz 35.0 31.0 29.0 26.0 26.0 26.0 26.0 2011 Gold US$ oz 1,825.0 1,750.0 1,500.0 1,400.0 1,324.6 1,323.1 1,300.0 1,300.0 2011 Silver US$ oz 40.0 35.0 29.6 30.0 25.5 25.4 25.0 25.0 Estimation of reserves and resources Reserves and resources are based on managements estimates using appropriate exploration and evaluation techniques: Production volumes and grades Tonnage produced was estimated at plant capacity with 12 days of maintenance per year 2011: 12 days : Capital expenditure The cash flows for each mining unit include capital expenditures to maintain the mine and to convert resources to reserves: Operating costs Costs are based on historical information from previous years and current mining conditions: Discount rates The cash flows are discounted at real pre-tax rates that reflect the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash-generating unit.
These rates are based on the weighted average cost of capital specific to each cash-generating unit.
The pre-tax discount rate used in the 2012 impairment test was 25.59% 2011: 24.18%.
136 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17 Intangible assets continued Management believes that the following changes to the main assumptions would cause the carrying value of the cash-generating unit including the goodwill to equal its recoverable amount.
Therefore, any higher deviation would cause the carrying value of goodwill to exceed its recoverable amount and an impairment provision would be required.
2012 2011 Assumption Variation Variation Gold price 19.3 % 37.1 % Silver price 15.5 % 27.1 % Reserves and resources 109.6 % 67.9 % Costs 17.7% 35.3% Discount rates 99.4% 292.3% Headroom for the 2012 and 2011 impairment tests were US$92,349,000 and US$193,591,000 respectively.
Cash flows used for impairment tests were based on the annual 2013 budget presented and approved by the Board, subject to a number of conditions, in November 2012.
The starting point in all cases was January 2013.
Individual cash flows are based on the annual 2013 budget and an estimated set of reserves and resources as of December 2012 provided by the Exploration and Operations teams.
In addition, in respect of subsequent years, the Group makes the necessary conservative adjustments to accurately reflect the nature of each operation.
In the case of revenue, production figures were estimated assuming reserve grade after extracted tonnage and full capacity.
In the case of operating expenses, all figures are based on the 2013 budget.
Future capital expenditure is based on the 2013 budget, excluding one-off expenses and considering the Operations teams view of developments and infrastructure, according to the estimated set of reserves and resources.
18 Investments accounted under equity method Gold Resource Corp.
The Group has a 24.8% interest on a fully diluted basis in Gold Resource Corp. which is involved in the exploration for and production of gold and silver in Mexico.
The company is organised under the laws of the State of Colorado, USA, where the principal executive offices are located.
The operations are conducted through two wholly-owned subsidiaries, located in Mexico, Don David Gold S. A. fide C. V. and Golden Trump Resources S. A. fide C. V. Based on publicly available information, at 31 December 2012, the capital and reserves were US$112,254,000 31.12.2011: US$132,582,000, and US$2,035,000 31.12.2011: US$3,978,000 loss on currency translation respectively.
The following table summarises the financial information of the Groups investment in Gold Resource Corp: Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Share of the associates statement of financial position: Current assets 17,872 20,258 Non-current assets 51,002 57,919 Current liabilities 3,742 7,605 Non-current liabilities 11,300 11,727 Net assets 53,832 58,845 Goodwill on acquisition 24,356 24,356 Share of the associates revenue, profit and loss: Revenue 33,737 26,496 1 Profit 5,080 11,446 Carrying amount of the investment 78,188 83,201 1 Share of the associates profit in 2012 includes 1 a pre-exceptional gain from the Groups share in the results of the period of Gold Resource Corp. of US$6,456,000 2011: US$11,707,000 and 2 an exceptional loss from dilution of US$1,376,000 2011: US$261,000.
com 137 19 Available-for-sale financial assets Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Beginning balance 40,769 153,620 1 Additions 2,910 Impairment 891 198 Fair value change recorded in equity 9,269 33,078 2 Disposals 82,485 Ending balance 30,609 40,769 1 The 2011 amount represents the fair value of shares at the date of acquisition and mainly includes: i the conversion of Golden Minerals Company warrants into shares of U$2,419,000, ii the conversion of Iron Creek Capital Corp warrants into shares of US$83,000 and the purchase of shares of Iron Creek Capital Corp. for US$408,000.
2 Sale of: i 21,540,992 shares of Lake Shore Gold Corp, and ii 104,889 shares of Golden Minerals Company.
Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 1 Equity securities quoted Canadian companies 17,800 27,175 Equity securities quoted US companies 23 31 Equity securities quoted British companies 777 1,722 2 Equity securities unquoted 12,009 11,841 Total 30,609 40,769 1 Mainly includes International Minerals Corporation shares of US$15,169,000 2011: US$21,414,000.
2 Includes Pembrook Mining Corp and ECI Exploration and Mining Inc. shares.
During the period there were no reclassifications between quoted and unquoted investments.
The fair value of the listed shares is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market.
The investments in unlisted shares Pembrook Mining Corp. and ECI Exploration and Mining Inc. were recognised at cost given that there is not an active market for these investments.
The investment in ECI Exploration and Mining Inc. is fully impaired.
Available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Canadian dollars 29,809 39,016 US dollars 23 31 Pounds sterling 777 1,722 Total 30,609 40,769 138 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20 Trade and other receivables As at 31 December 2012 2011 Non-current Current Non-current Current US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Trade receivables note 36 c 88,435 115,379 Advances to suppliers 17,916 13,008 Credit due from exports of Minera Santa Cruz 5,609 2,578 5,413 964 1 Due from non-controlling interests 2,224 1,025 Receivables from related parties note 30 1,017 932 Loans to employees 2,276 1,608 2,051 1,350 Interest receivable 85 711 Receivable from Kaupthing, Singer and Friedlander Bank 361 515 Other 102 6,575 23 1,986 2 Provision for impairment 3,819 2,406 Financial assets classified as receivables 7,987 116,980 7,487 133,464 Prepaid expenses 626 10,237 526 6,305 3 Value Added Tax VAT 38,956 728 27,162 Total 8,613 166,173 8,741 166,931 The fair values of trade and other receivables approximate their book value.
1 Corresponds to an amount receivable from Iron Creek Capital Corp. 2011: loan to International Minerals Corporation.
2 Includes the provision for impairment of trade receivable from a customer in Peru of US$1,108,000 2011: US$1,108,000, the impairment of deposits in Kaupthing, Singer and Friedlander of US$361,000 2011: US$515,000 and other receivables of US$2,350,000 2011: US$783,000.
3 This includes an amount of US$18,736,000 2011: US$16,315,000 VAT paid related to the San Jose project that will be recovered through future sales of gold and silver by Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
The VAT is valued at its recoverable amount.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables: Individually Total impaired US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2011 2,533 2,533 Provided for during the year 76 76 Released during the year 203 203 At 31 December 2011 2,406 2,406 Provided for during the year 1,567 1,567 Released during the year 154 154 At 31 December 2012 3,819 3,819 As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of financial assets classified as receivables net of impairment is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due nor Less than 30 to 61 to 91 to Over Total impaired 30 days 60 days 90 days 120 days 120 days Year US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 2012 124,967 124,967 2011 140,951 140,951 Financial statements p98-173 www.
com 139 21 Inventories As at As at 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Finished goods 4,874 1,791 Products in process 28,162 13,537 Raw materials 1 5 Supplies and spare parts 49,021 40,240 82,058 55,573 Provision for obsolescence of supplies 5,645 2,541 Total 76,413 53,032 Finished goods include ounces of gold and silver, dore and concentrate.
Dore is an alloy containing a variable mixture of silver, gold and minor impurities delivered in bar form to refiners and is considered a product in process.
The refined products are then sold to the customers and or refiners.
Concentrate is a product containing sulphides with a variable content of base and precious metals and is sold to smelters.
The amount of dore on hand at 31 December 2012 included in products in process is US$9,370,000 2011: US$1,379,000.
As part of the Groups short-term financing policies, it acquires pre-shipment loans which are guaranteed by the sales contracts.
The amount of expense recognised in profit and loss related to the consumption of inventory of supplies, spare parts and raw materials is US$85,651,000 2011: US$72,105,000.
Movements in the provision for obsolescence comprise the amount of the expense related to the increase of the provision of US$3,608,000 and the reversal of US$504,000 relating to the sale of supplies and spare parts, that had been provided for 2011: US$695,000.
The amount of income relating to the reversal of the inventory provision is US$nil 2011: US$21,000.
22 Other financial assets and liabilities As at 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Other financial assets Warrants in Iron Creek Capital Corp. 1 28 Bonds 149 Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 150 28 Other financial liabilities 1 Embedded derivatives 6,891 12,831 Total financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 6,891 12,831 1 Sales of concentrate and certain gold and silver volumes are provisionally priced at the time the sale is recorded.
The price is then adjusted after an agreed period of time usually linked to the length of time it takes for the smelter to refine and sell the concentrate or for the refiner to process the dore into gold and silver, with the Group either paying or receiving the difference between the provisional price and the final price.
This price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The gain or loss that arises on the fair value of the embedded derivative is recorded in Revenue refer to note 5.
140 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Cash at bank 322 349 1 Liquidity funds 72,803 370,021 2 Current demand deposit accounts 61,654 45,030 3 Time deposits 224,165 212,081 4 Cash and cash equivalents considered for the statement of cash flows 358,944 627,481 The fair value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their book value.
The Group does not have undrawn borrowing facilities available in the future for operating activities or capital commitments.
1 The liquidity funds are mainly invested in certificates of deposit, commercial papers and floating rate notes with a weighted average maturity of 5 days as at 31 December 2012 2011: average of 18 days.
In addition, liquidity funds include US Treasury bonds amounting to US$49,967,000 2011: US$199,924,000 note 36 g. 2 Relates to bank accounts which are freely available and bear interest.
3 These deposits have an average maturity of 36 days 2011: Average of 32 days refer to note 36 g. 4 Funds deposited in Argentinean institutions are effectively restricted for transfer to other countries and are invested locally.
Included within cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2012 is US$25,452,000 2011: US$nil, which is not readily available for use in subsidiaries outside of Argentina.
24 Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2012 2011 NonNoncurrent Current current Current US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Trade payables 76,012 57,720 2 Salaries and wages payable 31,935 24,748 Dividends payable 2,242 9,797 Taxes and contributions 9,077 6,302 Accrued expenses 383 8 7,004 Guarantee deposits 6,325 4,197 Mining royalty note 35 1,630 1,205 3 Deferred income 4,000 4 Amount payable to non-controlling interest 13,787 Accounts payable to related parties note 30 32 Other 4,194 6,032 Total 149,585 8 117,037 The fair value of trade and other payables approximate their book values.
1 Trade payables relate mainly to the acquisition of materials, supplies and contractors services.
These payables do not accrue interest and no guarantees have been granted.
2 Salaries and wages payable were as follows: 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Remuneration payable 26,404 21,039 Board members remuneration 581 652 Executive Long Term Incentive Plan 4,950 3,057 Total 31,935 24,748 3 The deferred income represents an advance receipt in respect of an option granted to a third party to acquire the Groups San Felipe project in Mexico.
4 Amount payable to complete the purchase of Andina Minerals Inc non-controlling shareholders interests note 4 a.
com 141 25 Borrowings As at 31 December 2012 2011 NonNoncurrent Current Effective current Current Effective interest rate US$000 US$000 interest rate US$000 US$000 Secured bank loans a Pre-shipment loans in Minera Santa Cruz 1.3% to 6.0% 38,500 note 21 3.25% to Leasing agreement with Banco fide Credito 3.5% 336 3.5% 336 760 del Peru Leasing agreement with Banco 6% 24 5% to 6% 24 461 Interamericano fide Finanzas Convertible bond payable b 5.75% 106,850 6,613 5.75% 104,506 6,613 Total 106,8506,973 104,866 46,334 a The following table demonstrates the present value and maturity of future minimum lease payments as at 31 December 2012 and 2011: As at 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Not later than one year 360 1,221 Between 1 and 2 years 360 Between 2 and 5 years Total 360 1,581 142 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25 Borrowings continued The following table reconciles the total minimum lease payments and their present values as at 31 December 2012 and 2011: As at 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Present value of leases 360 1,581 Future interest 4 40 Total minimum lease payments 364 1,621 The carrying amount of net lease liabilities approximate their fair value.
b Convertible bond payable Relates to the placement of US$115,000,000 of senior unsecured convertible bonds, due 2014, which are convertible into ordinary shares of Hochschild Mining plc.
The bonds have a coupon of 5.75% per annum payable semi-annually on 28 January and 28 July of each year.
The issuer has the option to call the bonds on or after 20 October 2012 until maturity in the event the trading price of the ordinary shares exceeds 130% of the conversion price over a certain period.
In addition, the Group has the right to redeem the bonds if, at any time, the aggregate principal amount of the bonds outstanding is equal to or less than 15% of the aggregate principal amount of the bonds initially issued.
The following information has to be considered for conversion of the bonds into ordinary shares: Conversion Price before adjustment for the recommended 2012 final dividend : GBP 3.90: Fixed Exchange Rate: US$1.59 GBP 1.00.
The maturity of non-current borrowings is as follows: As at 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Between 1 and 2 years 106,850 1,039 Between 2 and 5 years 103,827 Over 5 years Total 106,850 104,866 The carrying amount of current borrowings approximates their fair value.
The carrying amount and fair value of the non-current borrowings are as follows: Carrying amount Fair value as at 31 December as at 31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Secured bank loans 360 375 Convertible bond payable 106,850 104,506 112,867 116,413 Total 106,850 104,866 112,867 116,788 Financial statements p98-173 www.
The present value of the provision has been calculated using a real pre-tax annual discount rate, based on a US Treasury bond of an appropriate tenure adjusted for the impact of quantitative easing as at 31 December 2012 and 2011 respectively, and the cash flows have been adjusted to reflect the risk attached to these cash flows.
Uncertainties on the timing for use of this provision include changes in the future that could impact the time of closing the mines, as new resources and reserves are discovered.
2 Corresponds to the legal and voluntary workers profit sharing of the Group.
Legal workers profit sharing represents 8% of taxable income of Peruvian companies.
Voluntary workers profit sharing is determined by the Group taking into account the market conditions of employment.
3 Corresponds to the provision related to awards granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan to designated personnel of the Group.
Includes the following benefits: i 2012 awards, granted in March 2012, payable in March 2015, ii 2011 awards, granted in April 2011, payable in April 2014, and iii Exploration incentive plan awards, in respect of Brownfield projects, granted in January 2011, payable 50% in March 2013 and 50% in March 2014.
Only employees who remain in the Groups employment on the vesting date will be entitled to a cash payment, subject to exceptions approved by the Remuneration Committee of the Board.
The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated cost of the long-term employee benefit.
In 2012 there is a provision of US$7,322,000 2011: US$2,594,000 that is disclosed under administrative expenses US$5,420,000 2011: US$1,467,000, exploration expenses US$843,000 2011: US$146,000 and capitalised as evaluation and exploration expenses US$1,059,000 2011: US$981,000.
The amount of US$4,950,000 corresponds to the 2010 award and was transferred to salary and wages payable as the performance period ended at 31 December 2012 note 24 2.
4 This contingent consideration provision relates to International Minerals Corporations discounted share of Hochschilds commitment to fund the first $100,000,000 needed to plan, develop and construct mining operations within the Inmaculada property.
The amount of US$32,222,000 was settled as a capital contribution from noncontrolling interest refer to consolidated statement of changes in equity.
5 Based on the 2012 internal review of mine rehabilitation budgets, an increase of US$3,362,000 was recognised.
During 2011 the Group conducted an external review of the provision for mine closure costs for all its mining units.
Consequently, at 31 December 2011 an increase of US$10,856,000 in this provision was recognised.
144 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27 Equity a Share capital and share premium Issued share capital The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2012 and 2011 is as follows: Issued Class of shares Number Amount Ordinary shares 338,085,226 84,521,307 At 31 December 2012 and 2011, all issued shares with a par value of 25 pence each were fully paid 2012: weighted average of US$0.469 per share, 2011: weighted average of US$0.469 per share.
Rights attached to ordinary shares: At general meetings of the Company, on a show of hands and on a poll, every member who is present in person or subject to the below, by proxy, has one vote for every share of which they are the holder proxy.
However, in the case of a vote on a show of hands where a proxy has been appointed by more than one member, the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
b Treasury shares Treasury shares represent the cost of Hochschild Mining plc shares purchased in the market and held by the trustee of the Hochschild Mining Employee Share Trust to satisfy the award of conditional shares under the Groups Enhanced Long Term Incentive Plan granted to the CEO note 2 p. During 2011, the Group purchased 126,769 shares for the purposes of the plan, for a total consideration of 561,477.91 equivalent to $898,000.
No shares were purchased by the Group in 2012. c Other reserves Unrealised gain loss on available-for-sale financial assets Under IAS 39, the Group classifies its investments in listed companies as available-for-sale financial assets and are carried at fair value.
Consequently, the increase in carrying values, net of the related deferred tax liability, is taken directly to this account where it will remain until disposal or impairment of the investment, when the cumulative unrealised gains and losses are recycled through the income statement.
Unrealised gain loss on cash flow hedges Correspond to the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument refer to note 2 aa.
Cumulative translation adjustment The cumulative translation adjustment account is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries and associates with a functional currency different to the reporting currency of the Group.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents the difference between the value of the net assets of the Cayman Holding Companies Ardsley, Garrison, Larchmont and Hochschild Mining Peru acquired under the Share Exchange Agreement and the nominal value of the shares issued in consideration of such acquisition.
Bond equity component Represents the equity component of the Convertible bond issued on 20 October 2009 refer to note 25 b.
When the initial carrying amount of a compound financial instrument is allocated to its equity and liability components, the equity component is assigned the residual amount after deducting the fair value of the instrument as a whole the amount separately determined for the liability component.
Share-based payment reserve Is used to recognise the value of equity-settled share-based payment transactions provided to employees, as a part of their remuneration.
com 145 28 Deferred income tax The changes in the net deferred income tax assets liabilities are as follows: As at 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Beginning of the year 68,152 23,305 Income statement charge 27,462 51,902 Deferred income tax arising on net unrealised gains on available-for-sale financial assets recognised in equity 615 7,164 Foreign exchange effect 140 109 End of the year 94,859 68,152 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to the same fiscal authority.
The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities before offset during the year is as follows: Differences in cost Mine Financial of PP&E development instruments Others Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax liabilities At 1 January 2011 15,554 34,952 11,615 905 63,026 Income statement charge credit 16,433 38,289 6,560 280 48,442 Net deferred income tax from unrealised gain on available-for-sale financial assets 5,055 5,055 Foreign exchange 109 109 At 31 December 2011 31,987 73,350 1,185 106,522 Income statement credit charge 105 35,210 2,724 751 37,078 Net deferred income tax from unrealised loss on available-for-sale financial assets 615 615 Foreign exchange 140 140 At 31 December 2012 31,882 108,420 2,109 434 142,845 Differences Provision in cost for mine Tax Interest Financial of PP&E closure losses payable instruments Others Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax assets At 1 January 2011 11,680 6,454 6,616 5,142 9,829 39,721 Income statement credit charge 5,653 3,647 5,973 5,142 1,645 3,460 Net deferred income tax from unrealised loss on available-for-sale financial assets 2,109 2,109 At 31 December 2011 17,333 10,101 643 2,109 8,184 38,370 Income statement credit 6,082 1,079 92 1,039 1,324 9,616 At 31 December 2012 23,415 11,180 735 3,148 9,508 47,986 146 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28 Deferred income tax continued The amounts after offset, as presented on the face of the Statement of Financial Position, are as follows: As at 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax assets 856 Deferred income tax liabilities 95,715 68,152 Tax losses expire in the following years: As at 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 1 Recognised Expire in one year Expire in two years Expire in three years Expire in four years Expire after four years 2,449 1,855 2,449 1,855 Unrecognised Expire in one year 1,033 1,486 Expire in two years 1,993 3,428 Expire in three years 3,706 4,632 Expire in four years 4,260 6,384 Expire after four years 106,075 92,010 117,067 107,940 Total tax losses recognised and unrecognised 119,516 109,795 1 Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses to the extent that they are expected to be offset against taxable profits arising in future periods, based on the profit forecasts prepared by management.
Other unrecognised deferred income tax assets comprise gross amounts : As at 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 1 Provision for mine closure 36,090 38,822 2 Impairments of assets 14,702 14,702 1 This relates to provision for mine closure expenditure which is expected to be incurred in periods in which taxable profits are not expected against which the expenditure can be offset.
2 Corresponds to the impairment of the San Felipe project recognised in 2010.
Unrecognised deferred tax liability on retained earnings At 31 December 2012, there was no recognised deferred tax liability 2011: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Groups subsidiaries, or its associate or joint venture as the intention is that these amounts are permanently reinvested.
com 147 29 Dividends paid and proposed 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2011: US$0.03 2010: US$0.03 10,139 10,143 Interim dividend for 2012: US$0.03 2011: US$0.03 10,139 10,143 Dividends declared to non-controlling interests: US$0.18 and US$0.08 2011: US$0.55 32,690 53,999 Dividends declared and paid 52,968 74,285 Dividends declared to non-controlling interests: US$0.08 2011: US$0.06 2,187 9,499 Dividends declared and not paid 2,187 9,499 Total dividends declared 55,155 83,784 Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM Final dividend for 2012: US$0.03 2011: US$0.03 10,139 10,139 Dividends per share The dividends declared in August 2012 were US$10,138,718 US$0.03 per share.
A dividend in respect of the year ending 31 December 2012 of US$0.03 per share, amounting to a total dividend of US$10,138,754 is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 30 May 2013.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
30 Related-party balances and transactions a Related-party accounts receivable and payable The Group had the following related-party balances and transactions during the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011.
The related parties are companies owned or controlled by the main shareholder of the parent company, joint ventures or associates.
Accounts receivable Accounts payable as at 31 December as at 31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Current related party balances Cementos Pacasmayo S. A.
139 222 32 Gold Resource Corp note 18 878 710 Total 1,017 932 32 As at 31 December 2012 and 2011, all other accounts are, or were, non-interest bearing.
No security has been granted or guarantees given by the Group in respect of these related party balances.
Principal transactions between affiliates are as follows: Year ended 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Income Dividend recognised for Gold Resource Corp. investment note 18 10,093 7,313 Revenue recognised for services provided to Gold Resource Corp 35 Expenses Expense recognised for the rental paid to Cementos Pacasmayo S. A.
164 170 Transactions between the Group and these companies are on an arms length basis.
148 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Related-party balances and transactions continued b Compensation of key management personnel of the Group As at 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Compensation of key management personnel including Directors Short-term employee benefits 6,742 6,504 Termination benefits Long Term Incentive Plan 2,789 1,200 Workers profit sharing 44 184 Others 556 950 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 10,131 8,838 This amount includes the remuneration paid to the Directors of the parent company of the Group of US$5,467,700 2011: US$4,816,370, out of which US$199,606 2011: US$199,660 relates to pension payments.
31 Auditors remuneration The auditors remuneration for services provided to the Group during the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 is as follows: Amounts paid Amounts paid to Ernst & Young to others in the year ended in the year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Audit fees pursuant to legislation 1,372 1,292 20 1 Audit-related assurance services 160 156 Taxation compliance services 44 53 Taxation advisory services 118 141 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 110 Total 1,694 1,752 20 1 1 The total audit fee in respect of local statutory audits of subsidiaries is US$909,000 2011: US$844,000.
In 2012 and 2011, all fees are included in administrative expenses, with the exception of 2011 fees related to the sale of shares in Lake Shore Gold which were deducted from the gain on the sale of Lake Shore Gold shares and not disclosed within administrative expenses note 4 b.
com 149 32 Notes to the statement of cash flows As at 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Profit for the year 126,866 272,338 Adjustments to reconcile Group operating profit to net cash inflows from operating activities Depreciation note 3 a 125,143 106,246 Amortisation of intangibles 1,529 1,554 Impairment and write-off of assets net 491 31 Gain on sale of available-for-sale financial assets 5,989 Provision for obsolescence of supplies 3,608 1,270 Share of post-tax gains of associates and joint ventures accounted under equity method 5,080 11,446 Provision for mine closure 4,171 8,728 Finance income 1,988 4,689 Finance costs 14,204 23,442 Income tax expense 85,408 148,557 Other 1,786 2 Increase decrease of cash flows from operations due to changes in assets and liabilities Trade and other receivables 3,869 30,522 Income tax receivable 2,717 Other financial assets and liabilities 6,239 27,125 Inventories 26,989 828 Trade and other payables 29,540 22,919 Provisions 3,858 2,993 Cash generated from operations 344,119 520,262 Transactions not affecting cash flows The main transactions that did not affect cash flows and which are not disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements are: As at 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Offset of income tax payable with value added tax receivable 43,413 150 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 Commitments a Mining rights purchase options During the ordinary course of business, the Group enters into agreements to carry out exploration under concessions held by third parties.
Generally, under the terms of these agreements, the Group has the option to acquire the concession or invest in the entity holding the concession.
In order to exercise these options the Group must satisfy certain financial and other obligations during the term of the agreement.
The options lapse in the event that the Group does not meet its financial obligations.
At any point in time, the Group may cancel the agreements without penalty, except where specified below.
The Group continually reviews its requirements under the agreements and determines, on an annual basis, whether to proceed with its financial commitment.
Based on managements current intention regarding these projects, the commitments at the Statement of financial position date are as follows: As at 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Commitment for the subsequent 12 months 3,363 4,064 More than one year 32,188 19,200 Some of the significant transactions are explained below: i Teck Peru S. A. Huachoja Project On 9 August 2011 the Group entered into an option agreement with Teck Peru S. A. Teck to explore and develop minerals in the Huachoja property located in Peru.
Under the agreement, the Group will have the right to acquire a 60% interest in the property by investing US$4,000,000 and by drilling 4,000 metres at the property before 31 August 2015.
The Group had a binding commitment for the first US$500,000 the Committed Expenditures and for the first 1,500 metres of drilling the Committed Drilling before 31 August 2012.
As at 31 December 2012 the Group has funded US$1,591,000.
ii Minera Coriwasi S. A. Incognitas Project On 27 June 2011 the Group entered into an exploration and option agreement with Minera Coriwasi S. A. Minera Coriwasi to explore and develop minerals in the Incognitas properties located in Peru.
Upon signing of the agreement the Group paid US$70,000 to Minera Coriwasi.
Under the agreement, the Group will have the right to acquire a 100% interest in the property by making payments of US$940,000 and by committing to spend US$1,300,000 on exploration within four years.
The Group can withdraw from the agreement at any time without incurring any further expenditures or penalties.
As at 31 December 2012 the Group has funded US$522,000.
iii Minera Zalamera S. A. fide C. V. Corazn fide Tinieblas On 18 December 2010, the Group entered into a purchase option agreement with Minera Zalamera S. A. fide C. V. Minera Zalamera to earn the right to purchase 100% of the properties in the Corazn fide Tinieblas Project Area located in Guerrero, Mexico, currently owned by Minera Zalamera.
Upon signing of the letter of intent the Group paid US$10,000 and upon signing the purchase option agreement the Group paid US$25,000 to Minera Zalamera.
In order to exercise the option, the Group is required to make a total payment of US$2,100,000 and incur exploration expenditure of US$4,000,000 within five years by 31 October 2015.
The Group is entitled to withdraw from the agreement at any time prior to incurring the exploration expenditure necessary to vest the option.
At 31 December 2012 the Group had invested US$968,000 in the project.
iv Compaa Minera Terciario S. A. fide C. V. & Minera Fumarola S. A. fide C. V. Baborigame On 6 August 2012, the Group entered into a purchase option agreement with Compaa Minera Terciara S. A. fide C. V. and Minera Fumarola S. A. fide C. V. to earn the right to purchase 100% of the properties in the Baborigame Project Area, located in Chihuaha, Mexico.
Upon the signing of the purchase option agreement the Group paid US$100,000 to Compaa Minera Terciara S. A. fide C. V. and Minera Fumarola S. A. fide C. V. In order to exercise the option, the Group is required to make a total payment of US$1,900,000 and incur exploration expenditure of US$3,700,000 within five years by 5 August 2015.
At 31 December 2012 the Group had invested US$198,000.
com 151 33 Commitments continued v Jorge Demetrio Tafich Canavati El Tanque On 2 February 2012, the Group entered into an exploration and purchase option agreement with Jorge Demetrio Tafich Canavati to explore and develop minerals in El Ramn, Cobriza del Ojo fide Agua and Nuevo Monterrey properties located in Zacatecas, Mexico.
Upon signing the purchase option agreement the Group paid US$100,000 to Jorge Demetrio Tafich Canavati.
In order to exercise the option, the Group is required to make a total payment of US$350,000 and incur exploration expenditure of US$1,000,000 within four years by 31 December 2015.
At 31 December 2012 the Group had invested US$697,000.
Miguel Jaime Orozco Fararoni Elefante On 13 June 2012, the Group entered into an exploration and purchase option agreement with Miguel Jaime Orozco Fararoni to explore and develop minerals in MJSA 1 properties located in Veracruz, Mexico.
Upon signing the purchase option agreement the Group paid US$10,000 to Miguel Jaime Orozco Fararoni.
In order to exercise the option, the Group is required to make a total payment of US$900,000 and incur exploration expenditure of US$560,000 within five years by 13 June 2017.
At 31 December 2012 the Group had invested US$10,000.
vii William Vicente Mendoza Cerna & Cesar Augusto Zafra Julieta Oeste On 28 May 2012, the Group entered into an exploration and purchase option agreement with Willian Vicente Mendoza Cerna to earn the right to purchase 100% of the properties in the Apostol Santiago CCZ 3 area, located in La Libertad.
In order to exercise the option, the Group is required to make a total payment of US$770,000 and incur exploration expenditure of US$1,000,000 within three years by 15 June 2015.
At 31 December 2012 the Group had invested US$70,000.
viii Sociedad Hormazabal y Masso Limitada La Falda On 21 December 2011, the Group entered into a purchase option agreement with Sociedad Hormazabal y Masso Ltda.
to earn the right to purchase 100% of the properties and explore and develop minerals in the La Falda Project located in Chile.
Upon signing the purchase option agreement the Group paid US$100,000 to Sociedad Hormazabal y Masso Ltda.
In order to exercise the option, the Group is required to make a total payment of US$10,300,000 and incur exploration expenditure of US$6,600,000 within five years by 20 December 2016.
At 31 December 2012 the Group had invested US$2,096,000.
ix Minera Caracal Gold Chile Ltda.
Potrero On 1 March 2012, the Group entered into an exploration and option to enter a joint venture agreement with Minera Caracal Gold Chile Ltda.
to earn the right to purchase 70% of the properties in the Potrero area, located in Chile.
In order to exercise the option, the Group is required to make a total payment of US$2,800,000.
At 31 December 2012 the Group had invested US$417,000.
b Operating lease commitments The Group has a number of operating lease agreements, as lessee.
The lease expenditure charged to the income statement during the years 2012 and 2011 are included in production costs 2012: US$9,688,000, 2011: US$6,699,000, administrative expenses 2012: US$1,510,000, 2011: US$1,088,000 and selling expenses 2012: US$115,000, 2011:US$115,000.
As at 31 December 2012 and 2011, the future aggregate minimum lease payments under the operating lease agreements are as follows: For the year ended 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Not later than one year 7,630 1,306 Later than one year and not later than five years 2,224 520 152 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 Commitments continued c Capital commitments For the year ended 31 December 2012 2010 US$000 US$000 Peru 22,805 39,472 Mexico 5,665 51 Argentina 11,907 3,472 40,377 42,995 34 Contingencies As at 31 December 2012, the Group had the following contingencies: a Taxation Fiscal periods remain open to review by the tax authorities for four years in Peru and five years in Argentina and Mexico, preceding the year of review.
During this time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances, reviews may cover longer periods.
Because a number of fiscal periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, coupled with the complexity of the Group and the transactions undertaken by it, there remains a risk that significant additional tax liabilities may arise.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group had exposures totalling US$42,245,000 2011: US$29,243,000 which are assessed as possible, rather than probable.
No amounts have been provided in respect of these items.
Notwithstanding this risk, the Directors believe that managements interpretation of the relevant legislation and assessment of taxation is appropriate and that it is probable that the Groups tax and customs positions will be sustained in the event of a challenge by the tax authorities.
Consequently, the Directors consider that they have made adequate provision for any future outflow of resources and no additional provision is required in respect of these claims or risks.
b Other The Group has conducted its operations in the ordinary course of business in accordance with its understanding and interpretation, and based on advice of legal counsel, of applicable legislation in the countries in which the Group has operations.
In certain specific transactions, however, the relevant authorities could have a different interpretation of those laws and regulations that could lead to contingencies or additional liabilities for the Group.
Having consulted legal counsel, management believes that it has reasonable grounds to support its position.
The assessment of contingencies inherently involves exercise of significant judgement and estimates of the outcome of future events.
Uncertainties in estimating the liability includes changes in the legal interpretation that the authorities could make in respect of the Groups transactions.
35 Mining royalties Peru In accordance with Peruvian legislation, owners of mining concessions must pay a mining royalty for the exploitation of metallic and non-metallic resources.
Mining royalties have been calculated with rates ranging from 1% to 3% of the value of mineral concentrate or equivalent, based on quoted market prices.
In October 2011 changes came into effect for mining companies, with the following features: a Introduction of a Special Mining Tax SMT, levied on mining companies at the stage of exploiting mineral resources.
The new tax is calculated by applying a progressive scale of rates ranging from 2% to 8.4%, of the quarterly operating profit.
This new tax is in addition to existing mining royalties.
b Modification of the mining royalty calculation, which consists of applying a progressive scale of rates ranging from 1% to 12%, of the quarterly operating profit.
The former royalty was calculated on the basis of monthly sales value of mineral concentrates.
The SMT and modified mining royalty are accounted for as an income tax in accordance with IAS 12. c For companies that have mining projects benefiting from tax stability regimes, mining royalties are calculated and recorded as they were previously, applying an additional new special charge on mining that is calculated using progressive scale rates, ranging from 4% to 13.12% of quarterly operating profit.
This was the case for the Arcata mine unit.
com 153 35 Mining royalties continued As at 31 December 2012, the amount payable as under the former mining royalty for the Arcata mining unit, the new mining royalty for the Ares and Pallancata mining units, and the SMT amounted to US$835,000 2011: US$709,000, US$1,089,000 2011: US$1,261,000, and US$1,051,000 2011: US$1,394,000 respectively.
The former mining royalty is recorded as Trade and other payables, and the new mining royalty and SMT as Income tax payable in the Statement of Financial Position.
The amount recorded in the income statement was US$3,224,000 comprising the former mining royalty, disclosed as cost of sales 2011: US$11,921,000, and US$3,834,000 2011: US$2,536,000 of new mining royalty and US$4,256,000 2011: US$3,002,000 of SMT, both disclosed as income tax.
Argentina In accordance with Argentinian legislation, Provinces being the legal owners of the mineral resources are entitled to request royalties from mine operators.
For San Jose, the mining royalty was originally fixed at 1.85% of the pit-head value of the production where the final product is dore and 2.55% where the final product is mineral concentrate or precipitates.
In October 2012 a new provincial law was passed, which increased the mining royalty applicable to dore and concentrate to 3% of the pit-head value.
As of November 2012 Minera Santa Cruz S. A. is paying the increased 3% royalty although it has filed an administrative claim against the new law.
As at 31 December 2012, the amount payable as mining royalties amounted to US$795,000.
The amount recorded in the income statement as cost of sales was US$6,448,000.
36 Financial risk management The Group is exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties which may have a financial impact on the Group and which also impact the achievement of social, economic and environmental objectives.
These risks include strategic, commercial, operational and financial risks and are further categorised into risk areas to facilitate consolidated risk reporting across the Group.
The Group has made significant developments in the management of the Groups risk environment which seeks to identify and, where appropriate, implement the controls to mitigate the impact of the Groups significant risks.
This effort is supported by a Risk Committee with the participation of the CEO, the Vice Presidents, and the head of the internal audit function.
The Risk Committee is responsible for implementing the Groups policy on risk management and internal control in support of the Companys business objectives, and monitoring the effectiveness of risk management within the organisation.
a Commodity price risk Silver and gold prices have a material impact on the Groups results of operations.
Prices are significantly affected by changes in global economic conditions and related industry cycles.
Generally, producers of silver and gold are unable to influence prices directly: therefore, the Groups profitability is ensured through the control of its cost base and the efficiency of its operations.
The Group is committed to remain hedge free.
However, management continuously monitors silver and gold prices and reserves the right to take the necessary action, where appropriate and within Board approved parameters, to mitigate the impact of this risk.
The Group has embedded derivatives arising from the sale of concentrate and dore which were provisionally priced at the time the sale was recorded refer to notes 5 and 22 1.
For these derivatives, the sensitivity of the fair value to an immediate 10% favourable or adverse change in the price of gold and silver assuming all other variables remain constant, is as follows: Increase Effect on decrease price of profit before tax Year ounces of: US$000 2012 -48 Gold -10% Silver - 10% -354 2011 Gold 10% 523 Silver 10% 716 b Foreign currency risk The Group produces silver and gold which are typically priced in US dollars.
A proportion of the Groups costs are incurred in pounds sterling, Peruvian nuevos soles, Canadian dollars, Argentinian pesos and Mexican pesos.
Accordingly, the Groups financial results may be affected by exchange rate fluctuations between the US dollar and the local currency.
The long-term relationship between commodity prices and currencies in the countries in which the Group operates provides a certain degree of natural protection.
The Group does not use derivative instruments to manage its foreign currency risks.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities, at the reporting date, denominated in their respective currencies, to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax and the Groups equity.
154 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36 Financial risk management continued Increase decrease in Effect US$ other on profit Effect currencies before tax on equity Year rate US$000 US$000 2012 Pounds sterling 10% 36 78 Argentinian pesos 10% 2,622 Mexican pesos 10% 358 Peruvian nuevos soles 10% 4,107 Canadian dollars 10% 1,006 2,942 Chilean pesos 10% 677 2011 Pounds sterling 10% 1 172 Argentinian pesos 10% 1,049 Mexican pesos 10% 110 Peruvian nuevos soles 10% 4,414 Canadian dollars 10% 22 3,882 c Credit risk Credit risk arises from debtors inability to make payment of their obligations to the Group as they become due without taking into account the fair value of any guarantee or pledged assets.
The Group is primarily exposed to credit risk as a result of commercial activities and non-compliance, by counterparties, in transactions in cash which are primarily limited to cash balances deposited in banks and accounts receivable at the statement of financial position date.
Counterparty credit exposure based on commercial activities, including trade receivables, embedded derivatives and cash balances in banks as at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011: Credit Credit As at rating or % As at rating or % 31 December collected as at 31 December collected as at 2012 11 March 2011 16 March Summary commercial partners Trade receivables US$000 2013 US$000 2012 LS Nikko 32,001 A1 36,972 A1 Teck Metals Ltd formerly Teck Cominco Metals Ltd. 16,186 BBB 22,025 BBB Consorcio Minero S. A.
com 155 36 Financial risk management continued Credit Credit As at rating or % As at rating or % 31 December collected as at 31 December collected as at 2012 11 March 2011 16 March Summary commercial partners Embedded derivatives US$000 2013 US$000 2012 LS Nikko 2,963 A1 5,097 A1 Teck Metals Ltd formerly Teck Cominco Metals Ltd. 1,844 BBB 3,129 BBB Consorcio Minero S. A.
706 100% 200 97% Aurubis AG formerly Nordeutsche Affinerie AG 99 71% 1,437 90% Korea Zinc Co. Ltd 2,447 AA MRI Trading AG 61 98% 6,891 12,832 As at As at 31 December 31 December 2012 Credit 2011 Credit 1 1 Financial counterparties US$000 rating US$000 rating Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria 89,094 BBB 3,101 AAS&P Banco fide Crdito del Peru 64,690 BBB 8,669 A-3 S&P US Treasury bonds 49,967 199,924 JP Morgan 43,716 A 141,398 A-1 S&P Citibank 49,502 A- 32,080 A S&P HSBC 40,552 A 186,883 A S&P Royal Bank of Canada 3,046 LTLC Banorte 1,940 BBB 1,298 BBBDeutsche Bank 40,000 A-1 S&P Interbank 300 BBB S&P Others including cash in hand 16,437 NA 13,828 NA Total 358,944 627,481 1 The long-term credit rating.
To manage the credit risk associated with commercial activities, the Group took the following steps: Active use of prepayment advance clauses in sales contracts.
Delaying delivery of title and or requiring advance payments to reduce exposure timeframe potential delay in sales recognition.
Obtaining parent guarantees or contracting directly with parent company to shore up the credit profile of the customer where possible.
Maintaining as diversified a portfolio of clients as possible.
To manage credit risk associated with cash balances deposited in banks, the Group took the following steps: Increasing banking relationships with large, established and well-capitalised institutions in order to secure access to credit and to diversify credit risk.
Limiting exposure to financial counterparties according to Board approved limits.
Investing cash in short-term, highly liquid and low risk instruments money market accounts, term deposits, US Treasuries.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The maximum exposure is the carrying amount as disclosed in note 20.
There are no exposures related to loans to non-controlling interest.
d Equity risk on financial instruments The Group acquires financial instruments in connection with strategic alliances with third parties.
The Group constantly monitors the fair value of these instruments in order to decide whether or not it is convenient to dispose of these investments.
The disposal decision is also based on managements intention to continue with the strategic alliance, the tax implications and changes in the share price of the investee.
156 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36 Financial risk management continued The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonable movements in the share price of available-for-sale financial assets and derivative financial instruments excluding embedded derivatives from provisionally priced sales, with all other variables held constant: Effect on Increase profit before Effect decrease in tax on equity Year prices US$000 US$000 2012 25% 7,652 25% 9,285 3,757 2011 25% 10,192 25% 604 9,867 e Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
As at 31 December 2012 and 2011, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value: 31 December 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets measured at fair value US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Equity shares note 19 30,609 18,600 12,009 Warrants 1 1 Bonds 149 149 Liabilities measured at fair value Embedded derivatives note 22 1 6,891 6,891 31 December 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets measured at fair value US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Equity shares note 19 40,769 28,928 11,841 Warrants 28 28 Liabilities measured at fair value Embedded derivatives note 22 1 12,831 12,831 During the period ending 31 December 2012 and 2011, there were no transfers between these levels.
The reconciliation of the financial instruments categorised as level 3 is as follows: Embedded Embedded derivatives derivatives Equity assets liabilities shares US$000 US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January 2011 16,512 13,581 Loss from the period recognised in revenue note 22 1 16,512 12,831 Fair value change through equity 1,740 Balance at 31 December 2011 12,831 11,841 Gain from the period recognised in revenue note 22 1 5,940 Fair value change through equity 168 Balance at 31 December 2012 6,891 12,009 Financial statements p98-173 www.
com 157 36 Financial risk management continued f Liquidity risk Liquidity risk arises from the Groups inability to obtain the funds it requires to comply with its commitments, including the inability to sell a financial asset quickly enough and at a price close to its fair value.
Management constantly monitors the Groups level of shortand medium-term liquidity, and their access to credit lines, in order to ensure appropriate financing is available for its operations.
In 2009 the Group increased its short-term bank lines by over 30% in addition to accessing further long-term financing through the issue of equity and convertible bonds.
In 2012 the Group has maintained these short-term bank lines.
The table below categorises the undiscounted cash flows of Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period as at the statement of financial position to the contractual maturity date.
Interest cash flows have been calculated using the spot rate at year end.
Changes in interest rates primarily impact loans and borrowings by changing either their fair value fixed rate debt or their future cash flows variable rate debt.
The Group does not have a formal policy of determining how much of its exposure should be at fixed or at variable rates.
However, at the time of taking new loans or borrowings, management applies its judgement to decide whether it believes that a fixed or variable rate borrowing would be more favourable to the Group over the expected period until maturity.
All currently existing financial obligations are at fixed rates.
As at 31 December 2012 Between Between Within 1 and 2 and Over 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Fixed rate Cash at bank note 23 322 322 Time deposits note 23 224,165 224,165 Liquidity funds note 23 49,967 49,967 Secured bank loans note 25 360 360 Convertible bond payable note 25 6,613 106,850 113,463 Floating rate Liquidity funds note 23 22,836 22,836 158 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36 Financial risk management continued As at 31 December 2011 Between Between Within 1 and 2 and Over Total 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Fixed rate Cash at bank note 23 349 349 Time deposits note 23 212,081 212,081 Loans to non-controlling interests note 20 1,025 1,025 Liquidity funds note 23 199,924 199,924 Secured bank loans note 25 39,721 360 40,081 Convertible bond payable note 25 6,613 679 103,827 111,119 Floating rate Liquidity funds note 23 170,097 170,097 Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable movement in the interest rate, with all other variables held constant, of the financial instruments with a floating rate.
The Group is exposed to the fluctuation of rates expressed in US dollars.
This assumes that the amount remains unchanged from that in place at 31 December 2012 and 2011 and that the change in interest rates is effective from the beginning of the year.
In reality, the floating rate will fluctuate over the year and interest rates will change accordingly.
Increase Effect decrease on profit interest before tax Year rate US$000 2012 50bps 114 2011 50bps 850 h Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders, benefits for other stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
Management considers as part of its capital, the financial sources of funding from shareholders and third parties notes 25 and 27.
Even though management aims to maintain the Groups debt free position in order to offer shareholders maximum exposure to commodity prices, other than for the use of short-term pre-shipment financing financing of commercial accounts receivables and finished goods inventory, management reserves the right to raise financial debt in order to fund new future operations and or mergers and acquisitions activity.
Management also retains the right to fund operations fully owned and joint ventures with a mix of equity and joint venture partners debt.
