com 79 Supplementary information Introduction Current share repurchase authority References in this section to the Articles are to the Companys The Company obtained shareholder approval at the AGM held Articles of Association as at the date of this report, copies of in May 2012 for the repurchase of up to 33,808,522 ordinary which are available from the Registrar of Companies or on shares which represents 10% of the Companys issued share request from the Company Secretary.
Whilst no purchases were made by the Company pursuant to the 2012 Authority, it is intended that References in this section to the Companies Act are to the shareholder consent will be sought on similar terms at Companies Act 2006. this years AGM when the 2012 Authority expires.
Share capital Additional share capital information Issued share capital This section provides additional information as at The issued share capital of the Company as at 1 January 2012 31 December 2012. was 338,085,226 ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
No shares were issued by the Company during the year to a Structure of share capital 31 December 2012.
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 25 pence each, which are in The Hochschild Mining Employee Share Trust the Trust is registered form.
an employee share trust established during the year to hold ordinary shares of the Company on trust for the benefit of Further information on the Companys share capital is provided employees within the Group.
The Trustee of the Trust has in note 27 to the Consolidated financial statements.
absolute discretion to vote or abstain from voting in relation b Rights and obligations attaching to shares to the ordinary shares held by it from time to time and in doing The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are described in so may take into account the interests of current and future full in the Articles.
In summary, on a show of hands and on a poll at a general Substantial shareholdings meeting or class meeting, every member present in person or, As at 31 December 2012 the Company had been notified of the subject to the below, by proxy, has one vote for every ordinary following interests in the Companys ordinary share capital in share held.
However, in the case of a vote on a show of hands, accordance with Chapter 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys where a proxy has been appointed by more than one member Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules: the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy Percentage Percentage has been instructed by one or more members to vote for Number of of voting rights of voting rights the resolution and by one or more members to vote against ordinary shares indirect direct the resolution.
Eduardo Hochschild 182,415,206 53.95% Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any Vanguard Group Inc. 37,291,964 11.03% of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf Prudential plc at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member that is a Group of Companies 22,277,961 0.18% 6.59% corporation is entitled to appoint more than one individual to BlackRock act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a 15,200,000 4.49% Global Funds corporate representative.
Altima Global Special c Transfer of shares Situations Master The relevant provisions of the Articles state that: Fund Limited 12,003,175 3.55% n a Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may In addition to the holding disclosed above, Prudential plc Group of Companies be refused in the circumstances set out in the CREST has notified the Company of an interest in 931,666 ordinary shares through a holding of the Companys Convertible Bonds Regulations and where, in the case of a transfer to joint In addition to the holding disclosed above, BlackRock Global Funds has notified holders, the number of joint holders to whom the the Company of an interest in 1,579,236 ordinary shares through a holding of uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four: the Companys Convertible Bonds Notwithstanding the above which is based on information received by the The Directors may, in their absolute discretion, decline to Company in June 2009, the Company is aware that Altima no longer has an register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid interest in the Companys shares which is notifiable under the Disclosure Rules share.
The Directors may also decline to recognise any and Transparency Rules instrument of transfer relating to a certificated share unless The Company has not been notified of any changes in the above the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped if required and interests as at 12 March 2013. is accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Directors may reasonably require: and ii is in respect of only one class of share.
The Directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register a transfer if it is in favour of more than four persons jointly: and 80 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Supplementary information continued The Directors may decline to register a transfer of any of the Under the terms and conditions of the $115 million 5.75% Companys shares by a person with a 0.25% interest if such Convertible Bonds due 2014, condition 5 a sets out the a person has been served with a notice under the Companies conversion rights of the holders of the bonds and the Act after failure to provide the Company with information calculation of the conversion price payable.
The conversion concerning interests in those shares required to be provided price will decrease if a Change of Control occurs.
Change of under the Companies Act.
Control is defined in Condition 3 and Condition 5 b x sets out the consequential adjustment to the conversion price.
d Restrictions on voting In summary, a change of control occurs if i an offer is made No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or to all or as nearly as may be practicable all shareholders class meeting in respect of any shares held by him or her if any other than the offer or and or any of its associates to acquire call or other sum then payable by him or her in respect of that all or a majority of the issued ordinary shares of the Company share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
or if any person proposes a scheme with regard to such In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he or she acquisition other than an Exempt Newco Scheme as failed to provide the Company with information concerning defined and such offer or scheme having become interests in those shares required to be provided under the unconditional in all respects or having become effective Companies Act.
the right to cast more than 50% of the votes which may e Deadlines for voting rights ordinarily be cast on a poll at a general meeting of the Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the Company Company Voting Rights has or will become unconditionally in respect of which the business being voted upon is being vested in the offer or and or an associate as defined of the heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation offer or: or ii the right to cast more than 60% of the Voting to corporate members, by a corporate representative.
Under Rights has or will become unconditionally vested in the the Articles, the deadline for delivering proxy forms cannot be ultimate controlling shareholder of the Company at the time earlier than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the of issue and or an associate as defined : or iii the right to meeting for which the proxy is being appointed.
cast more than 50% of the Voting Rights has or will become unconditionally vested in any person or persons acting Shareholder agreements together by reason of the acquisition of the Companys The Relationship Agreement entered into prior to the IPO ordinary shares or Voting Rights from the ultimate controlling between, amongst others, the Major Shareholder as defined shareholder of the Company at the time of issue.
Condition in the Relationship Agreement and Eduardo Hochschild 6 d of the terms and conditions of the bonds gives collectively the Controlling Shareholders and the Company: bondholders an early redemption option early repayment Contains provisions restricting the Controlling Shareholders at face value plus accrued interest upon a change of rights to exercise their voting rights to procure an control occurring.
amendment to the Articles that would be inconsistent Awards made under the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan with the Relationship Agreement: and and Enhanced Long Term Incentive Plan shall, upon a change Contains an undertaking by the Controlling Shareholders that of control of the Company, vest early unless a replacement they will, and will procure that their Associates will, abstain award is made.
Vesting will be prorated to take account of from voting on any resolution to approve a transaction with a the proportion of the period from the award date to the related party as defined in the FSA Listing Rules involving normal vesting date falling prior to the change of control the Controlling Shareholders or their Associates.
and the extent to which performance conditions and any other conditions applying to the award have been met.
Significant agreements A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid Certain arrangements in respect of derivative instruments may cause a number of agreements to which the Company, or entered into by the Group would terminate on the occurrence any of its trading subsidiaries, is party, to take effect, alter or of a change of control thereby triggering an event of default terminate.
Such agreements include commercial trading vis a vis the counterparty.
contracts, joint venture agreements and financing arrangements.
Further details are given below of those arrangements where the impact may be considered to be significant in the context of the Group.
com 81 Summary of constitutional and other provisions Amendment of Articles of Association Any amendments to the Articles may be made in Appointment and replacement of Directors accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act by Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary way of special resolution.
resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next following AGM and is then eligible Powers of the Directors for election by shareholders but is not taken into account in Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions determining the Directors or the number of Directors who are given by special resolution, the business and affairs of the to retire by rotation at that meeting.
Company shall be managed by the Directors who may exercise The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more of all such powers of the Company.
their body to be the holder of any executive office for such Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, period subject to the Companies Act and on such terms as shares may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the they may determine and may revoke or terminate any such Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or in the absence appointment.
Each Director is subject to periodic re-election of any such resolution, as the Directors may decide.
Subject by shareholders at intervals of no more than every three years.
to applicable statutes and any ordinary resolution of the Each Director other than the Chairman and any Director Company, all unissued shares of the Company are at the holding executive office shall retire at each AGM following the disposal of the Directors.
At each AGM the Company puts ninth anniversary of the date on which he was elected by the in place annual shareholder authority seeking shareholder Company.
Under law, the Company is entitled to adopt such consent to allot unissued shares, in certain circumstances practices which are no less stringent than those set out in the for cash, in accordance with the guidelines of the Investor Articles.
Accordingly, notwithstanding the above, the Board has Protection Committee.
decided to adopt the recommendation of the UK Corporate Governance Code that all Directors should seek annual Repurchase of shares re-election by shareholders.
The Company may, in accordance Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the with and subject to the provisions of the Companies Act by Company may purchase its own shares in accordance with the ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given, Companies Act.
Any shares which have been bought back may remove any Director before the expiration of his term of office.
be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled The office of Director shall be vacated if: i he is prohibited by immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing law from acting as a Director: ii he resigns or offers to resign the amount of the Companys issued share capital.
The and the Directors resolve to accept such offer: iii he becomes minimum price which must be paid for such shares is specified bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: iv a in the relevant shareholder resolution.
relevant order has been made by any court on the ground of Dividends and distributions mental disorder: v he is absent without permission of the Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company Directors from meetings of the Board for six months and the may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends Directors resolve that his office be vacated: vi his resignation not exceeding the amount recommended by the Directors.
The is requested in writing by not less than three quarters of the Directors may pay interim dividends whenever the financial Directors for the time being: or vii in the case of a Director position of the Company, in the opinion of the Directors, justifies other than the Chairman and any Director holding an executive its payment.
If the Directors act in good faith, they are not liable office, if the Directors shall resolve to require him to resign and to holders of shares with preferred or pari passu rights for within 30 days of being given notice of such notice he so fails losses arising from the payment of interim dividends on to do.
In addition, under the terms of the Relationship Agreement: For as long as the Major Shareholder has an interest of 30% or more in the Company, it is entitled to appoint up to two Non-Executive Directors and to remove such Directors so appointed: and For as long as the Major Shareholder has an interest of 15% or more of the Company, it is entitled to appoint up to one Non-Executive Director and to remove such Director so appointed.
