FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Home Retail Group plc the Company, which is the ultimate parent company of Home Retail Group the Group, is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group is a home and general merchandise retailer.
These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 2 May 2012.
The financial year represents the 53 weeks to 3 March 2012 prior financial year 52 weeks to 26 February 2011.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee interpretations IFRICs as adopted by the European Union.
They also comply with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The Group consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
They are prepared on a going concern basis and under the historic cost basis modified for the revaluation of certain financial instruments, share-based payments and post-employment benefits.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out in note 3.
Unless otherwise stated, these policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of the ultimate parent company Home Retail Group plc, entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and the Groups share of its interests in joint ventures and associates.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group for the purposes of the Groups consolidation.
Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity whose operating and financing policies are controlled by the Group.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control was transferred to the Group.
Subsidiaries cease to be consolidated from the date that the Group no longer has control.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Home Retail Group companies have been eliminated on consolidation.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are entities in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and which are jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other interested parties under a contractual agreement.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control.
The equity method is used to account for investments in joint ventures and associates and investments are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of net assets of its joint ventures and associates is included on the Group balance sheet.
The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in its income statement.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying value of the investment.
The carrying amount of an investment in a joint venture or associate is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount to its carrying amount whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
Business combinations Under the requirements of IFRS 3, all business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of business acquisitions is the aggregate of fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the acquirer.
The cost of a business combination is allocated at the acquisition date by recognising the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria at their fair values at that date.
The acquisition date is the date on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
Intangible assets are recognised if they meet the definition of an intangible asset contained in IAS 38 and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
58 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Changes in accounting standards There are no new standards, amendments to existing standards or interpretations that are effective for the first time for the current year that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
At the balance sheet date a number of new standards and amendments to existing standards were in issue but not yet effective: Amendment to IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits: Amendment in June 2011 relating to recognition and measurement of defined benefit pension expense and termination benefits and disclosures for all employee benefits: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: identifies the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included within consolidated financial statements: IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: focuses on the rights and obligations of an arrangement rather than its legal form and classifies joint arrangements as either a joint operation or a joint venture: IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles: and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: provides a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
The Group has not early-adopted any of these new standards or amendments to existing standards.
The Group will assess their full impact in due course.
There are no other new standards, amendments to existing standards or interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on managements best judgement at the date of the financial statements, will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and future periods where appropriate.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: Taxes The Group is subject to taxes in a number of jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes as there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred tax provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
Post-employment benefits The present value of the defined benefit obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the defined benefit obligations and net pension costs include the expected long-term rate of return on the relevant scheme assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions may impact the amounts disclosed in the Groups balance sheet and income statement.
The expected return on scheme assets is calculated by reference to the scheme investments at the year-end and is a weighted average of the expected returns on each main asset type based on market yields available on these asset types at the year-end.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 59 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 2.
BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate used to determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the defined benefit obligations.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the market yields of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for defined benefit obligations and pension costs are based in part on market conditions at the relevant year-ends and additional information is disclosed in note 25.
Impairment of goodwill Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs at the level of each business segment.
The Group is required to assess whether goodwill has suffered any impairment loss on an annual basis, based on the recoverable amount, being the higher of the CGUs fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
The value-in-use calculations require the use of estimates in relation to future cash flows and suitable discount rates as disclosed in note 15.
Actual outcomes could vary from these estimates.
Impairment of assets Assets are subject to impairment reviews whenever changes in events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
If such an indicator exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of any impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
In the case of store assets, a CGU may represent a single store or a group of stores.
Assets or CGUs are written down to their recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
Value-in-use is calculated by discounting the expected cash flows from the asset at an appropriate discount rate for the risks associated with that asset.
This includes estimates of both the expected cash flows and an appropriate discount rate which use managements assumptions and estimates of the future performance of the asset.
Differences between expectations and the actual cash flows will result in differences in the level of impairment required.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if there has been a significant change in the underlying assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount, however not to an amount higher than the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of amortisation or depreciation, if no impairment loss had been recognised in prior years.
Impairment of trade receivables A trade receivable is impaired when there is objective evidence that events since the receivable was established have affected the expected cash flows from the receivable.
The Groups impairment provision against trade receivables is established on a portfolio basis, taking into account the level of arrears, past loss experience and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The future credit quality of the trade receivable portfolio is subject to uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses to differ materially from the reported impairment provision against trade receivables.
These uncertainties include the economic environment, notably the unemployment level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
Provisions Provisions have been estimated for onerous leases, insurance, restructuring and other liabilities.
These provisions represent the best estimate of the liability at the balance sheet date, the actual liability being dependent on future events such as trading conditions at a particular store or the incidence of insurance claims against the Group.
Expectations will be revised each period until the actual liability arises, with any difference accounted for in the period in which the revision is made.
Inventory provisions Inventory is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, which requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of goods to customers in the future.
Net realisable value takes into account slow moving, obsolete and defective inventory.
Any difference between the expected and the actual sales price achieved will be accounted for in the period in which the sale is made.
60 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION 3.
SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services to external customers, net of value added tax, rebates, discounts and returns.
Revenue is recognised as follows: Sale of goods Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue on goods to be delivered is recognised when the customer receives delivery of the goods.
The Group operates a variety of sales promotion schemes that give rise to goods being sold at a discount to the standard retail price.
Revenue is shown net of value added tax, returns and discounts.
Commissions receivable on the sale of services for which the Group acts as agent are included within revenue.
A provision for estimated returns is made, representing the profit on goods sold during the year which will be returned and refunded after the year-end.
Interest income Interest income on customer store card accounts and loans is recognised as revenue using the effective interest method.
Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial information is presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on monetary items are taken to the income statement with the exception of differences on transactions that are subject to effective cash flow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary items are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss and are included in either equity or the income statement as appropriate.
Group companies The results and financial position of overseas Home Retail Group entities are translated into sterling as follows: assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the period: and all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to equity.
Tax charges and credits attributable to those exchange differences are taken directly to equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at the closing rate.
Segmental reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Board of Directors and Operating Board that makes strategic decisions.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 61 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 3.
SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired at the date of acquisition.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to bring the accounting policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of the Group.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested at least annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised where the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Value-in-use calculations are performed using cash flow projections discounted at a rate taking account of the specific risks inherent within the Groups retail businesses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold, allocated where necessary on the basis of relative fair value.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill, if those assets are separable and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets acquired separately from the acquisition of a business are capitalised at cost.
Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised as intangible assets provided that a number of criteria are satisfied.
These include the technical feasibility of completing the asset so that it is available for use or sale, the availability of adequate resources to complete the development and how the asset will generate probable future economic benefit.
The cost of other intangible assets with finite useful economic lives is amortised over that period.
The carrying values of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
If impaired, they are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
Brands Acquired brands have a finite useful life and are initially recognised at fair value at the date of acquisition and subsequently held at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated to spread the cost of the brands over their estimated useful lives of 10 years on a straight-line basis.
This amortisation method reflects the pattern in which the assets future economic benefits are expected to be consumed.
Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Computer software licences are held at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over three to five years.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over 3 to 10 years.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
The residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are held at cost, being the purchase price and other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into use less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
An impairment charge is recognised where the carrying value of the asset or CGU to which the asset belongs exceeds its recoverable amount, being the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Value-in-use calculations are performed using cash flow projections discounted at a rate taking account of the specific risks inherent within the Groups businesses.
Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis as follows: freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years: leasehold premises are depreciated over the period of the lease: plant, vehicles and equipment are depreciated over 2 to 10 years according to the estimated life of the asset: land is not depreciated: and assets under the course of construction are not depreciated.
62 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Receivables Trade Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the balance sheet, with the cost of unrecoverable trade receivables recognised in the income statement immediately.
Financial services The gross margin from the sale of a retail product on extended credit terms is recognised at the time of the sale of the retail product.
Income under instalment agreements is credited to the income statement using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost bases in use within the Group are general retail goods valued on a standard cost or weighted average basis which approximates to actual cost.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Costs of inventory include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on qualifying cash flow hedges relating to their purchase.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Current asset investments Current asset investments includes cash on deposit held with banks, with original maturities of greater than three months.
Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
They are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
They are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently remeasured at amortised cost.
Current and non-current tax Current tax and non-current tax are based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts.
However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 63 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 3.
SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Provisions Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the reimbursement is certain.
Provisions are made for onerous lease contracts for stores that have closed or where a decision to close has been announced, and for those stores where the projected future trading income is insufficient to cover the lower of exit cost or value-in-use.
Provisions are also made for the estimated cost of insurance claims incurred by the Group but not settled at the balance sheet date, restructuring costs and other liabilities.
Insurance Statutory classes of risk, such as employer liability and certain motor liability, are insured by the Groups captive insurer, Home Retail Group Guernsey LP.
The Group self-insures other risks and the liabilities associated with these risks are held elsewhere within the Group.
The Group accounts for all insurance costs as part of operating costs in these financial statements.
Insurance premiums in respect of insurance placed with third parties are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
Operating leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Incentives from lessors are recognised as a systematic reduction of the charge over the life of the lease.
Post-employment benefits The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs.
The defined benefit obligations are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected-unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
For defined contribution pension plans the Group and employees pay contributions into an independently administered fund.
The cost of providing these benefits, recognised in the income statement, comprises the amount of contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the year.
64 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Catalogue costs Costs incurred during the production of the Groups catalogues are deferred on the balance sheet net of any associated advertising revenue and marketing support until the catalogue is made available to the Group, at which point the net deferred cost is charged to the income statement.
Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year-end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised in the financial statements when they are paid.
Financial instruments The Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories: financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial instruments were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value or, where fair value cannot be reliably measured, at cost less impairment.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates derivatives as either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges.
The Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items at the hedge inception, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are shown in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Cash flow hedges The cash flow hedges are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposures of the future purchases of inventory.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion would be recognised immediately in the income statement.
The hedged cash flow is expected to occur up to 14 months into the future and will be transferred to the consolidated income statement via inventory carrying value as applicable.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of forward currency exchange contracts hedging the Groups exposure to foreign currency liabilities is recognised in the income statement within cost of sales.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 3.
SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in organised active financial markets is based on quoted market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of financial instruments for which there is no quoted market price is determined by a variety of methods incorporating assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the shares granted is recognised as an expense after taking into account the best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The Group revisits the vesting estimate at each balance sheet date.
Non-market performance conditions are included in the vesting estimate.
Expenses are incurred over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured at the date of grant using whichever of the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo models, or closing market price is most appropriate to the award.
Market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revisited for actual performance.
Non-GAAP financial information Exceptional items Items which are both material and non-recurring are presented as exceptional items within their relevant income statement line.
The separate reporting of exceptional items helps provide a better indication of underlying performance of the Group.
Examples of items which may be recorded as exceptional items are impairment charges, restructuring costs and the profits losses on the disposal of businesses.
Benchmark measures The Group uses the following terms as measures which are not formally recognised under IFRS: Benchmark operating profit is defined as operating profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, store impairment and onerous lease charges or releases and exceptional items.
Benchmark profit before tax benchmark PBT is defined as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, store impairment and onerous lease charges or releases, exceptional items, financing fair value remeasurements, financing impact on retirement benefit obligations, the discount unwind on non-benchmark items and taxation.
Basic benchmark earnings per share benchmark EPS is defined as benchmark PBT less taxation attributable to benchmark PBT, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue excluding shares held in Home Retail Groups share trusts net of vested but unexercised share awards.
These measures are considered useful in that they provide investors with an alternative means to evaluate the underlying performance of the Groups operations.
Total net debt The Group uses the term total net debt which is considered useful in that it highlights the Groups aggregate net indebtedness to banks and other financial institutions together with debt-like liabilities, notably operating leases.
66 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Financial risk factors There are a number of financial risks and uncertainties which could impact the performance of the Group, being market risk foreign exchange and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group operates a structured risk management process which identifies, evaluates and prioritises risks and uncertainties.
Further details of the principal risks and uncertainties that could impact the Groups performance, and the Groups mitigating activities, are set out in the principal risks and uncertainties section of the review of the business on pages 30 to 31.
The Groups treasury function seeks to reduce exposures to foreign exchange, interest rate and other financial risks, and to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
Policies and procedures are subject to review and approval by the Board of Directors as well as subject to internal audit review.
Market risk foreign exchange risk The Group is subject to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar and the euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
To manage the foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities, entities in the Group use forward contracts, transacted with external banks.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
Group Treasury is responsible for managing the net position in each foreign currency by using external forward currency contracts.
The key objective of the Groups foreign exchange transaction exposure management is to minimise potential volatility in profits which could arise as a result of exchange rate fluctuations whilst maintaining an appropriate relative position versus the Groups retail peers.
To achieve the above objectives, the Group will initially seek to hedge up to 90% of any foreign exchange transaction risks expected to arise as a result of uncertain, but probable, foreign currency cash flows up to 14 months forward.
This subsequently increases to 100% as cash flows become certain.
Each subsidiary designates contracts as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges, as appropriate.
External foreign exchange contracts are designated as hedges of foreign exchange risk on specific assets, liabilities or future transactions on a gross basis.
The cash flow hedges are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposure of future purchases of inventory.
The hedged cash flows are expected to occur up to 14 months into the future and will be transferred to the consolidated income statement or inventory carrying value as applicable.
The Group has foreign operations whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is not hedged.
If on 3 March 2012, the last day of the financial year, sterling had been 5 cents, or approximately 3.2% 2011: approximately 3.1%, weaker stronger against the US dollar, with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit would have been 0.5m lower higher 2011: 0.4m lower higher mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses gains arising on retranslation of US dollar denominated balances in subsidiary companies with a sterling functional currency.
Equity would have been 12.6m higher lower 2011: 9.6m higher lower, arising mainly from the revaluation of US dollar forward currency contracts.
If on 3 March 2012, the last day of the financial year, sterling had been 5 cents, or approximately 4.2% 2011: approximately 4.3%, weaker stronger against the euro, with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit would have been 0.2m lower higher 2011: 6.4m lower higher, mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses gains on retranslation of sterling denominated cash balances in subsidiary companies with a euro functional currency.
Equity would have been 0.6m lower higher 2011: 0.8m lower higher, arising mainly from the revaluation of euro forward currency contracts net of foreign exchange gains or losses on retranslation of euro-denominated net assets held by subsidiary companies with a euro functional currency.
Market risk cash flow and fair value interest rate risk Whilst the Groups Financial Services business has gross instalment receivable balances on fixed interest rates and floating rates, the Groups income and operating cash flows are still considered to be substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
The Group currently holds a net cash position and has undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 67 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The Groups interest rate risk arises from the variance in market rate when deposits are made.
This risk is managed by combining overnight deposits with term deposits.
Interest rate risk also arises from any future long-term borrowings that it may incur.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The principal objective of the Groups interest rate risk management is to manage the trade-off between obtaining the most beneficial effective rates of interest whilst minimising the impact of interest rate volatility on profits before tax.
The aim will normally be to manage interest rate risks by achieving a ratio of between 30% and 70% of net debt fixed rate.
The Group had no borrowings at any point during the year.
Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
It has policies in place to ensure that sales of financial services products are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Customers are credit scored using an external credit agency.
Sales to retail customers are made in cash, via major debit and credit cards or via in-house or third party operated financial products.
The Groups exposure to credit risk with regard to treasury transactions is managed by dealing only with major banks and financial institutions.
Dealing activity is closely controlled and counterparty positions are monitored on a regular basis.
Foreign exchange counterparty limits are set for each organisation on a scale based on credit rating and maturity period.
Group policy is that cash is only deposited with major banks and financial institutions that satisfy the Groups credit requirements.
These credit requirements are assessed by reference to published credit ratings and the extent of UK Government investment, and are applied in combination to determine both the maximum amount and the maximum duration of cash deposits.
A minimum credit rating of AAStandard & Poors or Aa3 Moodys is required, unless the UK Government has a significant investment, in which case a minimum credit rating of A Standard & Poors or A1 Moodys is required.
Each deposit made by the Group during the year was compliant with the policy that was effective at the date the deposit was made.
Where a term deposit has been made and the counterparty ratings have subsequently reduced, each relevant position has been reviewed and any decision to maintain a position until the normal maturity date has been approved by the Board.
The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to external credit ratings as follows: Cash and term deposits and current asset investments Cash and Bank and institution Bank and institution short-term Current asset rating at rating at cash deposits investments transaction date 3 March 2012 Maturity date m m AAA AAA n a 94.3 A A n a 100.0 194.3 Cash and Bank and institution Bank and institution short-term Current asset rating at rating at cash deposits investments transaction date 26 February 2011 Maturity date m m AAA AAA n a 159.3 AA AA 10 May 2011 50.0 A A 23 August 2011 50.0 159.3 100.0 The current asset investments comprised two term cash deposits, one invested for an initial period of six months and the other for nine months.
68 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Marked to market forward foreign exchange contracts 2012 2011 Bank and institution rating at year end m m AA 9.1 AA- 1.4 3.0 A 0.6 11.0 A 0.9 3.6 A- 0.2 BB 0.7 BB 0.6 3.1 28.0 Of the 3.1m net asset 2011: 28.0m net liability in respect of marked to market forward foreign exchange contracts held at the year-end, 36% 2011: 46% will have matured within three months of the balance sheet date.
Liquidity risk Home Retail Group manages its cash and committed borrowing facilities to maintain liquidity and funding flexibility.
Liquidity is achieved through arranging funding ahead of requirements and maintaining sufficient undrawn committed facilities to meet short-term needs.
At 3 March 2012, the Group had an undrawn committed borrowing facility available of 700m, 685m of which does not expire until July 2013.
This facility includes a covenant related to adjusted benchmark earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and rent.
The facility is in place to enable the Group to finance its working capital requirements and for general corporate purposes, should the need arise.
The Group has not drawn down on the facility and has been in compliance with the requirements of the covenant throughout the year.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
At 3 March 2012 Less than 3-6 6-9 9-12 3 months months months months Total m m m m m Trade and other payables 539.5 539.5 At 26 February 2011 Less than 3-6 6-9 9-12 3 months months months months Total m m m m m Trade and other payables 620.3 620.3 When a forward foreign exchange contract matures, this requires an outflow of the currency being sold and an inflow of the currency being bought.
The table below analyses the Groups outflow and inflow from derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
At 3 March 2012 Less than 3-6 6-9 9-12 3 months months months months Total m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts outflow 284.4 231.2 175.7 97.6 788.9 inflow 289.2 232.8 173.7 96.3 792.0 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 69 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED At 26 February 2011 Less than 3-6 6-9 9-12 3 months months months months Total m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts outflow 370.7 257.3 199.1 95.0 922.1 inflow 357.8 248.0 195.5 92.8 894.1 Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal and efficient capital structure.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
The Group finances its operations through a combination of retained profits, property leases and borrowing facilities where necessary.
The Group has significant liabilities through its obligations to pay rents under property leases.
The Group, in common with the credit rating agencies, treats its lease liabilities as debt when evaluating financial risk and investment returns.
In addition, the Groups Financial Services business holds a net loan book balance of 457m as at 3 March 2012.
The Group has the ability to monetise this loan book, for example by securitising it, should it wish to do so.
The Groups net debt varies throughout the year due to trading seasonality, and the position as at 3 March 2012 is set out in the analysis of net cash debt on page 57.
Foreign currency The principal exchange rates used were as follows: Average Closing 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 March 26 February 3 March 26 February 2012 2011 2012 2011 US dollar 1.60 1.55 1.58 1.61 Euro 1.16 1.17 1.20 1.17 Fair value estimation IFRS 7 requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following measurement hierarchy: Level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices : and Level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
These instruments are included in level 1 and comprise investments in quoted managed indexed funds.
As at 3 March 2012, these instruments, which are classified as available-for-sale financial assets, had a carrying value of 16.3m 2011: 15.2m.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
The valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
As at 3 March 2012, the fair value of derivative instruments used for hedging purposes was a net asset of 3.1m 2011: 28.0m net liability.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.
The Group has no level 3 instruments to disclose.
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include: Quoted market prices: and The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
70 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION 5.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION The Board of Directors and Operating Board review the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based on these reports, which reflect the distinct retail brands and different risks associated with the different businesses.
The Group is organised into three main business segments: Argos, Homebase and Financial Services together with Central Activities.
The Board of Directors and Operating Board assess the performance of the operating segments based on a combination of revenue and benchmark operating profit.
Benchmark operating profit is defined within note 3.
53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 March 26 February 2012 2011 m m Revenue Argos 3,935.3 4,194.3 Homebase 1,536.4 1,550.7 Financial Services 111.1 106.9 Central Activities Total segment revenue 5,582.8 5,851.9 Benchmark operating profit Argos 106.9 219.0 Homebase 23.8 47.6 Financial Services 6.1 6.0 Central Activities 25.1 21.8 Total segment benchmark operating profit 111.7 250.8 Benchmark net financing income 3.5 3.2 Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures and associates 0.5 0.1 Benchmark profit before tax 115.7 254.1 Exceptional items 20.3 Financing fair value remeasurements 3.3 5.4 Financing impact on retirement benefit obligations 4.8 4.6 Discount unwind on non-benchmark items 6.7 6.1 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 1.2 Onerous lease provision releases 8.5 7.2 Profit before tax 104.1 265.2 Taxation 31.3 74.3 Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 72.8 190.9 2012 2011 m m Segment assets Argos 2,299.0 2,393.0 Homebase 883.8 891.9 Financial Services 479.3 480.4 Central Activities 100.8 62.9 Total segment assets 3,762.9 3,828.2 Tax assets 51.4 50.3 Current asset investments 100.0 Cash and cash equivalents 194.3 159.3 Total assets per balance sheet 4,008.6 4,137.8 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 5.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED Segment assets include goodwill and other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment in joint ventures and associates, inventories, trade and other receivables and other financial assets.
Tax assets, current asset investments and cash and cash equivalents are not allocated to segments.
Central Activities segment assets include 8.3m 2011: 8.0m in respect of joint ventures and associates.
2012 2011 m m Segment liabilities Argos 628.4 720.8 Homebase 477.6 523.8 Financial Services 34.4 59.9 Central Activities 100.8 38.9 Total segment liabilities 1,241.2 1,343.4 Tax liabilities 26.7 45.7 Retirement benefit obligations 115.3 7.5 Total liabilities per balance sheet 1,383.2 1,396.6 Segment liabilities include trade and other payables, provisions and other financial liabilities.
Tax liabilities and retirement benefit obligations are not allocated to segments.
53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 Financial Central Argos Homebase Services Activities Total Other segment items Notes m m m m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17 52.2 42.6 4.8 99.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 16 21.8 3.2 0.7 1.2 26.9 Share-based payment expense 30 3.0 2.6 0.5 2.8 8.9 Additions to property, plant and equipment 17 45.3 45.6 6.2 97.1 Additions to other intangible assets 16 31.0 4.7 0.2 1.9 37.8 52 weeks ended 26 February 2011 Financial Central Argos Homebase Services Activities Total Other segment items Notes m m m m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17 56.2 38.7 3.8 98.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 16 25.5 2.7 0.6 28.8 Share-based payment expense 30 4.6 2.7 0.5 4.1 11.9 Additions to property, plant and equipment 17 37.6 39.2 25.4 102.2 Additions to other intangible assets 16 38.3 5.0 0.4 0.2 43.9 Geographical segments The Group trades predominantly in the UK and the Republic of Ireland and consequently the majority of revenues, capital expenditure and segment net assets arise there.
72 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION 6.
ANALYSIS OF REVENUE BY CATEGORY 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 March 26 February 2012 2011 m m Sale of goods 5,471.7 5,745.0 Provision of services by Financial Services 111.1 106.9 Total 5,582.8 5,851.9 7.
NET OPERATING EXPENSES 52 weeks ended 26 February 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 2011 Before After exceptional Exceptional exceptional items items items Total Expenses by function m m m m Net operating expenses comprise: Selling costs 1,399.2 19.8 1,419.0 1,380.5 Administrative costs 270.6 0.5 271.1 242.7 Total net operating expenses 1,669.8 20.3 1,690.1 1,623.2 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 March 26 February 2012 2011 Notes m m Profit before tax is stated after charging: Operating lease rental expense 368.0 370.8 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense in cost of sales 3,677.0 3,856.6 Write down of inventories 117.0 114.1 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 1.8 0.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17 99.6 98.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 16 26.9 28.8 Employee benefit costs 8 691.2 682.0 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 March 26 February 2012 2011 Auditors remuneration m m Audit services: Fees payable for the audit of the Company and the consolidated financial statements 0.8 0.7 Other services: Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 services relating to taxation 0.2 0.4 all other services 0.2 Total fees payable to  LLP 1.3 1.2 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 8.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT COSTS AND EMPLOYEE NUMBERS 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 March 26 February 2012 2011 Employee costs Notes m m Wages and salaries 619.8 608.9 Social security costs 38.4 37.9 Post-employment benefits 25 24.1 23.3 Share-based payments 30 8.9 11.9 691.2 682.0 The basis of calculation of employee costs has been changed during the year ended 3 March 2012, and consequently the comparative employee costs have been represented for consistency.
This change has had no impact on the income statement in either the current or prior year.
53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 3 March 2012 26 February 2011 Number of Full time Number of Full time Average number of employees employees equivalent employees equivalent Argos 30,686 15,073 32,296 15,707 Homebase 19,002 10,242 19,061 10,113 Financial Services 513 448 511 432 Central Activities 53 53 47 44 50,254 25,816 51,915 26,296 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 March 26 February 2012 2011 Key management compensation m m Short-term employee benefits 3.4 3.6 Post-employment benefits 1.5 1.4 Share-based payments 1.7 3.2 6.6 8.2 Key management consists of the members of the Home Retail Group plc Board and the managing directors of both retail businesses.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 March 26 February 2012 2011 m m Reorganisation and restructuring charges 20.3 Exceptional items in operating profit 20.3 Tax on exceptional items in profit before tax 3.3 Exceptional tax 3.3 Exceptional loss after tax for the year 17.0 Reorganisation and restructuring actions announced during the 53 weeks to 3 March 2012 include the closure of the Groups UK homewares trial format, HomeStore&More, and the proposed closure of one of the Groups distribution warehouses.
74 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION 10.
NET FINANCING INCOME 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 March 26 February 2012 2011 m m Finance income: Bank deposits and other interest 1.8 2.6 Expected return on retirement benefit assets 48.0 46.9 Financing fair value remeasurements net exchange gains 3.5 7.8 Total finance income 53.3 57.3 Finance expense: Unwinding of discounts 8.4 8.7 Financing fair value remeasurements net exchange losses 0.2 2.4 Interest expense on retirement benefit liabilities 43.2 42.3 Total finance expense 51.8 53.4 Less: finance expense charged to Financial Services cost of sales 3.4 3.2 Total net finance expense 48.4 50.2 Net financing income 4.9 7.1 Included within unwinding of discounts is a 6.7m charge 2011: 6.1m relating to the discount unwind on non-benchmark onerous lease provisions.
TAXATION 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 March 26 February 2012 2011 Analysis of charge in year m m Current tax: UK corporation tax 32.2 71.3 Double tax relief 1.1 1.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 13.1 23.7 Total current UK tax charge 18.0 45.8 Overseas tax 2.4 3.9 Total current tax charge 20.4 49.7 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.5 5.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 8.3 18.3 Rate change impact 0.1 0.4 Total tax charge in income statement 31.3 74.3 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 March 26 February 2012 2011 Tax included in other comprehensive income m m Cash flow hedges 5.2 16.4 Retirement benefit obligations 31.5 0.5 Rate change impact 1.6 0.2 Total tax credit in other comprehensive income 24.7 15.7 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 11.
TAXATION CONTINUED Factors affecting the tax charge The effective tax rate for the year of 30.1% 2011: 28.0%, is higher than 2011: same as the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 26.0% 2011: 28.0%.
This is analysed below: 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 March 26 February 2012 2011 m m Profit before tax 104.1 265.2 Profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 27.1 74.3 Effects of: Benchmark: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 7.0 8.6 Differences in effective tax rates on overseas earnings 1.4 2.3 Tax charge credit on non-benchmark profit 2.8 3.1 Benchmark tax expense 35.5 77.5 Non-benchmark: Tax credit on exceptional items 3.3 Tax charge on non-benchmark items 3.8 1.8 Tax credit in respect of prior years 4.8 5.4 Rate change impact 0.1 0.4 Total tax charge in income statement 31.3 74.3 Factors that may affect future tax charges In the foreseeable future, the Groups tax charge will continue to be influenced by the profile of profits earned in the different tax jurisdictions within the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
The income tax expense for the year is based on the UK statutory rate of corporation tax for the period of 26.0% 2011: 28.0%.
Overseas tax is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The impact of the changes in statutory rates relates to the reduction of the UK corporation tax rate from 26.0% to 25.0% from 1 April 2012, the substantively enacted rate, which differs from the recently announced rate of 24.0%.
This change has resulted in a deferred tax charge arising from the reduction in the balance sheet carrying value of the net deferred tax asset to reflect the enacted rate of tax at which those assets are expected to reverse.
DIVIDENDS 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 March 26 February 2012 2011 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders m m Final dividend of 10.0p per share 2011: 10.0p for the prior year 79.9 85.8 Interim dividend of 4.7p per share 2011: 4.7p for the current year 37.6 38.1 Ordinary dividends on equity shares 117.5 123.9 The Board of Directors does not recommend a final dividend in respect of the year ended 3 March 2012.
This would make a total dividend for the year of 4.7p per share, amounting to 37.6m.
The Home Retail Group Employee Share Trust EST has waived its entitlement to dividends in the amount of 2.1m 2011: 1.9m.
76 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION 13.
BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares held in Home Retail Groups share trusts, net of vested but unexercised share awards.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all potential dilutive ordinary shares.
53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 March 26 February 2012 2011 Earnings m m Profit after tax for the financial year 72.8 190.9 Adjusted for: Exceptional items 20.3 Financing fair value remeasurements 3.3 5.4 Financing impact on retirement benefit obligations 4.8 4.6 Discount unwind on non-benchmark items 6.7 6.1 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 1.2 Onerous lease provision releases 8.5 7.2 Attributable taxation 0.5 1.8 Non-benchmark tax credit in respect of prior years 4.8 5.4 Tax rate change 0.1 0.4 Benchmark profit after tax for the financial year 80.2 176.6 Weighted average number of shares millions millions Number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 799.4 827.4 Dilutive effect of share incentive awards 3.9 3.9 Number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 803.3 831.3 EPS pence pence Basic EPS 9.1 23.1 Diluted EPS 9.1 23.0 Basic benchmark EPS 10.0 21.3 Diluted benchmark EPS 10.0 21.2 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 14. BUSINESS COMBINATION On 24 June 2011, the Group announced it had agreed to purchase the exclusive rights to the Habitat brand, its brand designs and intellectual property in the UK and the Republic of Ireland, along with the Habitat UK website, three of its London stores and a share of trading stock, for a total purchase price of 24.5m.
The Group considers the acquisition to be a significant addition to the existing portfolio of own brands and expects to leverage the Groups multi-channel strength to develop the online proposition.
Goodwill of 2.9m has been recognised on this transaction, which represents the synergies, assembled workforce and future growth potential of the business acquired.
53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 m Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed Other intangible assets brands 18.0 Other identifiable net assets 3.6 Total identifiable net assets 21.6 Goodwill note 15 2.9 Total consideration paid 24.5 The revenue and profit included in the consolidated income statement from the date of acquisition to 3 March 2012 are immaterial in the context of these accounts, so have not been disclosed.
GOODWILL Argos Homebase Other Total m m m m Cost At 27 February 2011 1,152.3 770.4 1,922.7 Additions note 14 2.9 2.9 At 3 March 2012 1,152.3 770.4 2.9 1,925.6 Accumulated impairment At 27 February 2011 and 3 March 2012 381.7 381.7 Net book value at 3 March 2012 1,152.3 388.7 2.9 1,543.9 Argos Homebase Other Total m m m m Cost At 28 February 2010 and 26 February 2011 1,152.3 770.4 1,922.7 Accumulated impairment At 28 February 2010 and 26 February 2011 381.7 381.7 Net book value at 26 February 2011 1,152.3 388.7 1,541.0 Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs at the level of each business segment.
The recoverable amount of each of the business segments is determined as being the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
These calculations use cash flow projections based on financial plans approved by management looking forward five years.
Cash flows are extrapolated using a long-term growth rate beyond the five-year plan period.
There are a significant number of inter-connected assumptions that underpin the value-in-use calculations, however the key assumptions, which management believes are appropriate for each business, are: a long-term growth rate of 2.0% 2011: 2.5%, which has been used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the five-year plan period.
The growth rate is consistent with external forecasts and does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the UK: a post-tax discount rate of 8.5% 2011: 8.5%, which equates to a pre-tax rate of approximately 11.5% 2011: 11.8%, has been estimated taking account of the specific risks inherent within the Groups retail businesses and has been applied to the cash flow projections: and benchmark operating profits for the current year, of 106.9m for Argos 2011: 219.0m and 23.8m for Homebase 2011: 47.6m, have been adjusted into the plan period, incorporating assumptions in respect of sales growth, gross margin and operating costs.
78 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION The results of the Groups impairment tests are dependent upon estimates and judgements made by management, particularly in relation to the key assumptions described above.
Analysis of sensitivities to likely and potential changes in key assumptions has therefore been reviewed.
At 3 March 2012, the estimated recoverable amount of the Argos business segment calculated on a value-in-use basis exceeded its carrying value by 327m.
A decrease in the assumed long-term growth rate by 1.6% points or a decrease of 19% in benchmark operating profit in each and every year would cause the carrying value of the Argos business segment to equal its recoverable amount.
Other than as discussed above, management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would generate a different outcome to the impairment tests as performed.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Computer software Brands Total m m m Cost At 27 February 2011 237.7 22.5 260.2 Acquired through business combination 0.5 18.0 18.5 Additions 37.8 37.8 Disposals 29.9 29.9 At 3 March 2012 246.1 40.5 286.6 Accumulated amortisation At 27 February 2011 147.7 4.7 152.4 Charge for the year 23.5 3.4 26.9 Disposals 29.8 29.8 At 3 March 2012 141.4 8.1 149.5 Net book value at 3 March 2012 104.7 32.4 137.1 Assets in the course of construction included above at 3 March 2012 14.6 14.6 Computer software Brands Total m m m Cost At 28 February 2010 210.7 22.5 233.2 Additions 43.9 43.9 Disposals 16.9 16.9 At 26 February 2011 237.7 22.5 260.2 Accumulated amortisation At 28 February 2010 138.1 2.4 140.5 Charge for the year 26.5 2.3 28.8 Disposals 16.9 16.9 At 26 February 2011 147.7 4.7 152.4 Net book value at 26 February 2011 90.0 17.8 107.8 Net book value at 28 February 2010 72.6 20.1 92.7 Assets in the course of construction included above at 26 February 2011 19.4 19.4 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 17.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Leasehold properties Freehold Long Short Plant & properties leasehold leasehold equipment Total m m m m m Cost At 27 February 2011 129.8 1.7 341.3 949.4 1,422.2 Exchange differences 0.5 1.3 1.8 Acquired through business combination 1.4 1.4 Additions 17.8 79.3 97.1 Disposals 7.9 50.5 58.4 At 3 March 2012 129.8 1.7 350.7 978.3 1,460.5 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 27 February 2011 21.4 0.4 247.3 629.7 898.8 Exchange differences - 0.4 1.0 1.4 Charge for the year 1.8 16.0 81.8 99.6 Disposals 6.8 46.0 52.8 At 3 March 2012 23.2 0.4 256.1 664.5 944.2 Net book value at 3 March 2012 106.6 1.3 94.6 313.8 516.3 Assets in the course of construction included above at 3 March 2012 0.7 26.6 27.3 Leasehold properties Freehold Long Short Plant & properties leasehold leasehold equipment Total m m m m m Cost At 28 February 2010 108.5 1.7 337.7 923.7 1,371.6 Exchange differences 0.9 2.3 3.2 Additions 21.3 9.8 71.1 102.2 Disposals 5.3 43.1 48.4 At 26 February 2011 129.8 1.7 341.3 949.4 1,422.2 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 28 February 2010 19.8 0.4 236.9 589.4 846.5 Exchange differences 0.5 1.6 2.1 Charge for the year 1.6 15.7 81.4 98.7 Disposals 4.8 39.5 44.3 At 26 February 2011 21.4 0.4 247.3 629.7 898.8 Net book value at 26 February 2011 108.4 1.3 94.0 319.7 523.4 Net book value at 28 February 2010 88.7 1.3 100.8 334.3 525.1 Assets in the course of construction included above at 26 February 2011 3.0 36.1 39.1 Store assets are subject to impairment reviews whenever changes in events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
Store assets or CGU to which the assets belong are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are the same as those detailed for the goodwill impairment model in note 15.
Management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of these key assumptions would cause the carrying value of store assets to materially exceed their recoverable amounts.
80 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION 18.
INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES 2012 2011 m m At 27 February 2011 8.0 8.2 Exchange differences 0.2 0.3 Share of profit after tax 0.5 0.1 At 3 March 2012 8.3 8.0 The Group owns a 33% shareholding in Ogalas Limited which trades as home store more, a company incorporated in the Republic of Ireland, and which is reported as an associate.
The Groups share of the revenue of Ogalas Limited for the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 is 11.6m 2011: 8.6m and its share of the profit after tax is 0.5m 2011: 0.1m.
At 3 March 2012, the Groups share of the net assets of Ogalas Limited amounted to 8.3m 2011: 8.0m, consisting of assets of 9.9m 2011: 9.2m, which includes goodwill of 4.6m 2011: 4.7m, and liabilities of 1.6m 2011: 1.2m.
In addition, on 19 October 2011, the Group announced that it had agreed to launch a joint venture company to develop a multi-channel, general merchandise retail business in China with Haier Group, one of the worlds leading home appliance manufacturers.
The Group owns a 49% holding in this venture, HH Retail Limited, which is reported as an associate.
At the balance sheet date, HH Retail Limited has undertaken no material transactions.
Details of the Groups commitment to invest equity and loans in HH Retail Limited are set out in note 32.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Current Non-current Current Non-current 2012 2012 2011 2011 m m m m Trade receivables: Instalment receivables 535.2 530.1 Other trade receivables 39.7 53.4 574.9 583.5 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 82.0 75.8 492.9 507.7 Other receivables 53.7 3.8 55.3 4.3 Prepayments and accrued income 48.0 47.3 594.6 3.8 610.3 4.3 The carrying values of current trade and other receivables are a reasonable approximation of their fair values due to their short-term nature.
Long-term receivables have been discounted where the time value of money is material.
All receivables due after more than one year are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a broad customer base.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
As at 3 March 2012, trade receivables of 71.2m 2011: 77.9m were individually determined to be impaired.
The impaired receivables mainly relate to store card holder balances on customer accounts on which indications of possible default have been identified.
Provision for impairment of trade receivables is also made on a portfolio basis against trade receivables which are not individually determined to be impaired.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 20.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: m At 26 February 2011 75.8 Charge for the year 38.0 Utilised 31.8 At 3 March 2012 82.0 As at 3 March 2012, trade receivables of 20.5m 2011: 22.9m were past due but not impaired.
These mainly relate to store card holders and corporate customer receivable balances.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2012 2011 m m Less than 3 months 18.7 20.2 3 to 6 months 1.6 2.2 6 to 9 months 0.1 0.3 9 to 12 months 0.1 0.2 20.5 22.9 The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
CURRENT ASSET INVESTMENTS 2012 2011 m m Term cash deposits 100.0 Current asset investments in the prior year comprised term cash deposits with original maturities of greater than three months.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2012 2011 m m Cash at bank and in hand 194.3 159.3 The effective interest rate during the year ended 3 March 2012 for cash and cash equivalents was 0.8% 2011: 0.7%.
The Group has provided letters of credit totalling 12.5m 2011: 12.5m to Chartis Insurance UK Limited formerly known as AIG Europe UK Limited as part of their re-insurance agreement.
These letters are secured by cash deposits.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Current Non-current Current Non-current 2012 2012 2011 2011 m m m m Trade payables 475.5 499.4 Social security costs and other taxes 45.4 58.7 Accruals and deferred income 360.0 55.8 368.5 58.7 Other payables 64.0 120.9 944.9 55.8 1,047.5 58.7 Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and the fair values are not considered to differ materially from the recognised book values.
Long-term payables have been discounted where the time value of money is material.
82 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION 24.
PROVISIONS Onerous leases Insurance Restructuring Other Total m m m m m At 27 February 2011 157.9 31.9 7.8 10.2 207.8 Transfer from accruals 14.1 14.1 Exchange differences 0.8 0.8 Charged to the income statement 5.8 20.3 5.2 31.3 Released to the income statement 8.5 1.0 9.5 Acquired through business combination 0.5 0.5 Utilised during the year 3.5 5.1 3.8 4.4 16.8 Discount unwind 8.4 0.3 8.7 At 3 March 2012 153.5 46.7 24.3 10.8 235.3 2012 2011 Analysed as: m m Current 47.8 20.4 Non-current 187.5 187.4 235.3 207.8 The onerous lease provision covers potential liabilities for onerous lease contracts for stores that have either closed, or where projected future trading income is insufficient to cover the lower of exit cost or value-in-use.
Where the value-in-use calculation is lower, the provision is based on the present value of expected future cash flows relating to rents, rates and other property costs to the end of the lease terms net of expected trading or sublet income.
The majority of this provision is expected to be utilised over the period to 2019.
Provision is made at the year-end for the estimated costs of insurance claims incurred by the Group but not settled at the balance sheet date, including the costs of claims that have arisen but have not yet been reported to the Group.
The estimated cost of claims includes expenses to be incurred in settling claims.
The majority of this provision is expected to be utilised over the period to 2017.
A number of organisational changes have been announced to improve the operational efficiency of the Group and drive further cost productivity.
Actions announced during the 53 weeks to 3 March 2012 include the closure of the Groups UK homewares trial format, HomeStore&More, and the proposed closure of one of the Groups distribution warehouses.
The majority of this provision is expected to be utilised within one year.
Other provisions include legal claims and other sundry provisions.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 25.
POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
A defined benefit scheme is a pension scheme that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which both the Group and employees pay contributions into an independently administered fund.
Pension arrangements for UK employees are operated principally through a defined benefit scheme the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme and a defined contribution scheme the Home Retail Group Stakeholder Pension Scheme.
In other countries, benefits are determined in accordance with local practice and regulations and funding is provided accordingly.
Defined benefit schemes The Home Retail Group Pension Scheme The scheme has rules which specify the benefits to be paid and is financed accordingly with assets being held in independently administered funds.
A full actuarial valuation of this scheme is carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2009 by independent, qualified actuaries, Towers Watson, using the projected unit method and resulted in a deficit of 102m.
The next full actuarial valuation of the scheme will be carried out as at 31 March 2012.
IAS 19 valuations The valuations used for IAS 19 have been based on the most recent actuarial funding valuations and have been updated by Lane Clark & Peacock to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 in order to assess the liabilities of the schemes at the year end.
The movements during the year in the net obligations recognised in the balance sheet were as follows: 2012 2011 m m At 27 February 2011 7.5 24.9 Total charge recognised in the consolidated income statement 12.4 12.5 Actuarial loss gain recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 121.2 1.9 Contributions paid 25.8 28.0 At 3 March 2012 115.3 7.5 As part of the Groups risk management strategy for liabilities arising under the scheme, certain pensioner liabilities were subject to a buy-in arrangement on 27 May 2011.
Under the terms of this arrangement, the scheme paid 278m to an insurance company and will in return receive annuity payments equal to the monthly pensions then in payment.
This eliminates the schemes exposure to the investment, inflation and mortality risks associated with these pensioner members.
The buy-in had no impact on the reported profits of the Group for the year to 3 March 2012, or the liabilities of the scheme as calculated in accordance with IAS 19.
The income stream receivable under the insurance contract is an asset of the scheme with a value equal to the related liabilities as measured in accordance with IAS 19.
As this asset was less than the cash cost of the buy-in, the transaction reduced the reported assets of the scheme by approximately 45m.
During the year, the Group has paid contributions totalling 25.8m 2011: 28.0m to the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme including 10.0m 2011: 12.0m as part of the deficit recovery plan agreed with the scheme trustees following the completion of the 31 March 2009 actuarial valuation.
The estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid by the Group during the next financial year is 23m, including 8m as part of the deficit recovery plan.
84 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION The amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are determined as follows: 2012 2011 m m Fair value of scheme assets 764.4 748.8 Present value of funded scheme liabilities 861.6 740.8 Deficit surplus in the funded scheme 97.2 8.0 Present value of unfunded pension arrangements 18.1 15.5 Retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet 115.3 7.5 The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement were as follows: 2012 2011 m m Current service cost 17.2 17.1 Discount unwind on scheme liabilities 43.2 42.3 Expected return on scheme assets 48.0 46.9 Total charge to consolidated income statement 12.4 12.5 The current service cost includes 1.7m 2011: 1.6m in respect of unfunded pension arrangements.
The charge is recognised in the following line items in the consolidated income statement: 2012 2011 m m Administrative costs 17.2 17.1 Finance expense note 10 43.2 42.3 Finance income note 10 48.0 46.9 Total charge to consolidated income statement 12.4 12.5 The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows: 2012 2011 % % Rate of inflation 3.1 3.5 Rate of increase for salaries 3.1 4.0 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.0 3.4 Rate of increase for deferred pensions 3.0 3.4 Discount rate 4.8 5.7 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 25.
POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED The impact of changing material assumptions is as follows: 2012 2011 Indicative Indicative Indicative Indicative effect on effect on effect on effect on Increase scheme annual scheme annual decrease in liabilities service cost liabilities service cost assumptions m m m m Rate of inflation 0.1% -13.7 -0.6 -14.5 -0.5 Rate of increase for salaries 0.1% -3.3 -0.2 -2.9 -0.2 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 0.1% -6.2 -0.4 -8.1 -0.3 Rate of increase for deferred pensions 0.1% -4.1 -3.6 -0.1 Discount rate 0.1% - 14.9 - 0.6 - 15.6 - 0.5 Life expectancy 1 year -17.5 -0.7 -21.3 -0.7 The discount rate is based on market yields on high-quality corporate bonds of equivalent currency and term to the defined benefit obligations.
The IAS 19 valuation assumes that mortality will be in line with PA92 Series tables with medium cohort projections for mortality improvements up to the current year.
The allowance for mortality improvements beyond the current year is based on medium cohort improvements with a 1% floor.
Based on these assumptions the average expectation of life on retirement in normal health is assumed to be: 23.3 years at age 65 for a male currently aged 65 2011: 23.2 25.7 years at age 65 for a female currently aged 65 2011: 25.6 24.7 years at age 65 for a male currently aged 50 2011: 24.6 27.2 years at age 65 for a female currently aged 50 2011: 27.1 The assets of the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme and the expected rates of return are summarised as follows: 2012 2011 Expected Expected Percentage long-term Percentage long-term Fair of scheme rate of Fair of scheme rate of value assets return value assets return m % % pa m % % pa Market value of scheme assets: Equities 272.7 36 6.9 270.2 36 7.7 Fixed interest securities 41.7 6 4.6 285.7 38 4.8 Fund of hedge funds 125.5 16 6.4 130.4 17 7.2 1 Insurance policy 247.7 32 4.7 Property 56.5 7 5.4 42.4 6 6.7 Cash and net current assets 20.3 3 2.9 20.1 3 4.2 764.4 100 5.8 748.8 100 6.4 Note: 1.
Based on the discount rate applicable to the pensioners liabilities insured under the contract.
This is 0.1% pa lower than the discount rate for the scheme as a whole because the duration of the pensioners liabilities is around 15 years instead of 23 years and the average corporate bond yield net of inflation at this shorter duration was approximately 0.1% pa lower at 3 March 2012.
The overall expected rate of return on scheme assets is the weighted average of the best estimate of the individual asset categories and their inherent expected rates of return.
86 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Changes in the present value of the defined benefit liabilities are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Opening defined benefit liabilities 756.3 692.6 Current service cost 17.2 17.1 Interest cost 43.2 42.3 Contributions paid by employees 5.2 5.5 Actuarial loss on liabilities recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 76.6 13.4 Benefits paid 18.8 14.6 Closing defined benefit liabilities 879.7 756.3 Changes in the market value of the scheme assets are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Opening market value of scheme assets 748.8 667.7 Expected return 48.0 46.9 Actuarial loss gain on assets recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 44.6 15.3 Contributions paid by the Group 25.8 28.0 Contributions paid by employees 5.2 5.5 Benefits paid 18.8 14.6 Closing market value of scheme assets 764.4 748.8 Cumulative actuarial loss included in the statement of comprehensive income 214.1 92.9 The actual return on scheme assets was a gain of 3.4m 2011: 62.2m.
The Group has in place arrangements which secure unfunded pension benefit arrangements for certain directors and senior managers by granting charges to an independent trustee over independently managed portfolios of marketable securities owned by the Group.
The amount of assets charged in this way is adjusted annually to keep the ratio of assets charged to the discounted value of the accrued benefits secured in this way as close as possible to the corresponding ratio in the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme.
The total value of the assets charged in this way at 3 March 2012 was 16.3m 2011: 15.2m.
Further details of the pension arrangements for directors appear in the audited part of the directors remuneration report.
History of experience gains and losses: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit liabilities 879.7 756.3 692.6 550.8 562.8 Fair value of scheme assets 764.4 748.8 667.7 504.4 646.5 Net deficit surplus on the scheme 115.3 7.5 24.9 46.4 83.7 Experience gain loss on scheme liabilities 0.2 8.1 12.1 1.5 4.3 Percentage of scheme liabilities 1.1% 1.7% 0.3% 0.8% Experience loss gain on scheme assets 44.6 15.3 107.7 194.3 44.8 Percentage of scheme assets 5.8% 2.0% 16.1% 38.5% 6.9% Defined contribution schemes The pension cost represents contributions payable by the Group to the defined contribution schemes and amounted to 6.9m 2011: 6.2m.
Contributions totalling 0.6m 2011: 0.7m were payable to the schemes at 3 March 2012 and are included within trade and other payables.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 26.
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Current Non-current Current Non-current 2012 2012 2011 2011 m m m m Other financial assets Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 6.5 0.4 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value hedges 1.8 1.0 Available-for-sale financial assets 17.4 15.2 Total other financial assets 8.3 17.4 1.4 15.2 Other financial liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 5.2 19.1 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value hedges 10.3 Total other financial liabilities 5.2 29.4 Forward foreign exchange contracts The forward foreign exchange contracts are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposures of future purchases of inventory.
The hedged cash flows are expected to occur up to one year into the future.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in shareholders equity on forward foreign exchange contracts as at the year-end will be released within one year from the balance sheet date.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 3 March 2012 were 788.9m 2011: 922.1m.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value or, where fair value cannot be reliably measured, at cost less impairment.
88 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION 27.
DEFERRED TAX 2012 2011 m m The movements on the net deferred tax account are as follows: At 27 February 2011 14.9 23.8 Income statement charge note 11 10.8 24.2 Rate change impact 0.1 0.4 Tax credited to other comprehensive income 24.7 15.7 At 3 March 2012 28.7 14.9 The deferred tax amounts recognised are as follows: Deferred tax assets: Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than one year 50.6 39.4 Deferred tax liabilities: Deferred tax liability to be settled after more than one year 21.9 24.5 Net deferred tax assets 28.7 14.9 Closing deferred tax has been calculated at the substantively enacted UK corporation tax rate of 25.0% 2011: 27.0%, which differs from the recently announced rate of 24.0%.
The effect of the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 27.0% to 25.0% is a reduction in the net deferred tax asset at the end of 2012 of 1.7m.
Of this 1.7m, 1.6m has been charged directly to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The proposed reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax by 1% per year to 22.0% is expected to be enacted separately each year.
The impact of the future rate reductions on the net deferred tax asset are not material for each future year at the balance sheet date.
The Group will assess the impact of the reduction in rate in line with its accounting policy in respect of deferred tax at each balance sheet date.
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Accelerated Asset tax provisions depreciation Other Total Deferred tax assets m m m m At 27 February 2011 30.4 9.0 39.4 Income statement charge 12.7 0.9 13.6 Tax credited to other comprehensive income 24.7 24.7 Transfer from deferred tax liabilities 1.9 1.9 Rate change impact 1.7 0.1 1.8 At 3 March 2012 16.0 1.9 32.7 50.6 Accelerated Asset tax provisions depreciation Other Total Deferred tax assets m m m m At 28 February 2010 50.9 10.7 61.6 Income statement charge 19.4 6.1 25.5 Tax charged to other comprehensive income 0.5 0.5 Transfer from deferred tax liabilities 5.0 5.0 Rate change impact 1.1 0.1 1.2 At 26 February 2011 30.4 9.0 39.4 Other deferred tax assets consist of 29.8m 2011: 4.2m in respect of defined benefit pension obligations and 2.9m 2011: 4.8m in respect of other temporary differences.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 27.
DEFERRED TAX CONTINUED Accelerated Property tax valuations depreciation Other Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m m At 27 February 2011 16.8 7.7 24.5 Income statement credit 1.4 1.4 2.8 Transfer to deferred tax assets 1.9 1.9 Rate change impact 1.1 0.6 1.7 At 3 March 2012 14.3 7.6 21.9 Accelerated Property tax valuations depreciation Other Total Deferred tax assets m m m m At 28 February 2010 18.9 7.7 11.2 37.8 Income statement credit charge 1.5 0.2 1.3 Tax credited to other comprehensive income 16.2 16.2 Transfer to deferred tax assets 5.0 5.0 Rate change impact 0.6 0.2 0.8 At 26 February 2011 16.8 7.7 24.5 Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable.
The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of 1.0m 2011: 1.1m in respect of all non-trading losses, which total 3.9m 2011: 3.9m, that can be carried forward against future taxable income.
In addition, the Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of 27.4m 2011: 30.3m in respect of capital losses, which total 109.6m 2011: 112.3m, that can be carried forward against future taxable gains.
These losses are available indefinitely.
90 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION 28.
SHARE CAPITAL 2012 2011 Number 2012 Number 2011 of shares m of shares m Authorised Ordinary share capital of 10p each 2,000,500,000 200.1 2,000,500,000 200.1 Allotted, called-up and fully paid Ordinary share capital of 10p each At 27 February 2011 813,445,001 81.3 877,445,001 87.7 Purchased for cancellation 64,000,000 6.4 At 3 March 2012 813,445,001 81.3 813,445,001 81.3 During the year-ended 26 February 2011 the Company purchased for cancellation 64,000,000 of its own ordinary shares of 10p each in the open market at a total cost of 150.2m including commission and stamp duty.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve arose as a result of the share buy-back programme that was undertaken during the year-ended 26 February 2011.
Merger reserve The merger reserve arose on the demerger of the Group from GUS plc during 2006.
Other reserves Treasury Hedging Translation Total other shares reserve reserve reserves m m m m Balance at 27 February 2011 27.3 13.7 35.4 5.6 Other comprehensive income 14.6 3.2 11.4 Net movement in own shares 2.8 2.8 Balance at 3 March 2012 24.5 0.9 32.2 8.6 Treasury Hedging Translation Total other shares reserve reserve reserves m m m m Balance at 28 February 2010 24.2 29.3 41.5 46.6 Other comprehensive income 43.0 6.1 49.1 Net movement in own shares 3.1 3.1 Balance at 26 February 2011 27.3 13.7 35.4 5.6 The net credit arising on the movement in own shares of 2.8m 2011: debit of 3.1m represents the utilisation or sale of shares held for the purpose of satisfying obligations arising from the Groups share-based compensation schemes net of the purchase of additional shares to satisfy awards vesting in the future.
Shares in Home Retail Group plc are held in the following trusts which have been established since demerger: Home Retail Group Employee Share Trust EST The EST provides for the issue of shares to Group employees under share option and share grant schemes with the exception of the Share Incentive Plan.
The shares in the EST are held within equity of the Group at a cost of 21.6m 2011: 23.5m.
No shares were acquired during the year 2011: 3,000,000 at a cost of 6.7m.
Dividends on these shares are waived.
Home Retail Group Share Incentive Scheme Trust The Home Retail Group Share Incentive Scheme Trust provides for the issue of shares to Group employees under the Share Incentive Plan.
These shares are held within equity of the Group at a cost of 2.9m 2011: 3.8m.
No additional shares were purchased during the year.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 30.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes.
These can be analysed into three categories, being those rolled over from old GUS plc schemes as a result of the demerger from GUS on 11 October 2006, incentive schemes specifically related to the demerger Demerger incentive schemes and new Home Retail Group plc schemes subsequent to the demerger.
Prior to the demerger, a number of Home Retail Group plc employees participated in old GUS plc share-based payment schemes.
As part of the demerger, some of these schemes had early vesting with vesting occurring prior to completion of the demerger, while others were modified by rolling them over to become Home Retail Group plc share-based payment schemes.
Specifically, all executive share option schemes in operation following the demerger from GUS plc were rolled over from a GUS plc share option arrangement to a Home Retail Group plc arrangement.
Under IFRS 2, these changes were treated as modifications to the schemes and hence revalued as at the demerger date.
Summary of the total cost of share-based compensation in respect of ordinary shares in the Company 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 March 26 February 2012 2011 m m Share option awards 1.6 2.4 Share grant awards 7.3 9.5 Total expense recognised all equity-settled 8.9 11.9 Summary of share option and share award arrangements During the year ended 3 March 2012, Home Retail Group plc had a number of share option and share award arrangements for its employees, all of which are equity-settled.
Details of these arrangements are as follows: Rolled over from old GUS plc schemes Share options The 1998 approved and non-approved executive share option schemes.
Under these schemes, the exercise price of granted options was equal to the market price of the shares over the three dealing days preceding grant.
The options became exercisable three years from the grant date, subject to the Groups EPS compound annual growth exceeding compound annual retail price inflation by 4% per annum over a continuous three-year period and the employee completing three years service.
The EPS growth target is not a market-based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
The options have a maximum term of 10 years from grant.
No new options have been granted under these schemes since demerger and all outstanding awards have vested.
Demerger incentive schemes Share awards The re-investment plan was a three-part scheme running over three, four and five years, under which participants were awarded matching shares.
The matching shares are a nil consideration option and were classified as an award of shares because the nature of the award is the same.
The percentage of the award distributed to participants is conditional upon continued service, ranking of total shareholder return relative to a comparator group and the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on invested capital of the Group.
The total shareholder return performance condition is considered a market-based performance condition under IFRS 2.
Awards under this plan have been valued using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations measured over the three-year period preceding valuation.
Awards under all three parts of this scheme have now vested.
The share incentive plan was a one-off free share grant to all employees at the time of the demerger.
The shares were acquired by a trust on behalf of participants and will normally be forfeited if a participants employment with the Group ceases within three years of the grant date.
All awards under this plan vested after this initial three-year period in November 2009, at which point participants were able to withdraw their shares, and since November 2011 shares can be withdrawn free of tax.
The shares continue to be held by the trust until they are either withdrawn by participants or the awards lapse.
92 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION New Home Retail Group plc schemes Share options The Home Retail Group plc Sharesave Plan permits the grant to employees of options over the Companys shares linked to a building society save-asyou-earn contract for a term of three or five years with contributions from employees of between 5 and 250 per month.
Options are normally capable of being exercised at the end of the three or five-year period at an exercise price calculated at a 20% discount to market price over the three dealing days preceding invitation to participants.
Options must be exercised within six months of the end of the three or five-year save-as-you-earn contract.
Share awards The performance share plan.
Awards made under this plan will normally vest three years after the date of grant for nil consideration.
For all awards under this plan, vesting is conditional on participants continued service.
For those awards with performance conditions, the percentage of the award distributed to participants is determined either by ranking total shareholder return TSR relative to a comparator group or by reference to performance against other specific targets such as EPS growth.
The TSR target is considered a market-based performance condition under IFRS 2, and the awards with this performance condition have been valued using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations measured over the three-year period preceding valuation.
The EPS growth target is a non market-based performance condition, and the awards with this performance condition have been valued by reference to the share price at the date of grant.
The plan was amended in 2010 to add an HM Revenue & Customs approved option to the share awards at no additional cost.
The approved option is over the same number of shares as awarded under the normal PSP award, up to a maximum share value of 30,000.
The two awards together give participants the same gross value as the normal PSP award only.
The deferred bonus plan permitted the award of a deferred bonus that was converted into a conditional award of shares and operated for the year ended 27 February 2010 only.
The award was based on performance against a benchmark PBT and a Group net cash target and was made at the maximum of 150% of salary in May 2010.
The grant date was the start of the financial year in which the performance stage was assessed, which was one year before the shares are awarded.
Subject to continued employment the shares will vest and be released on a phased basis, for nil consideration.
1 6 vested on the first anniversary of the award, 2 6 will vest on the second anniversary and 3 6 on the third anniversary.
The deferred share plan is a discretionary award of deferred shares.
This award has no performance conditions, other than a level of personal performance.
Awards made under this plan vest on a phased basis for nil consideration: being 1 6 one year after the award is made, 2 6 two years after the award is made and 3 6 three years after the award is made.
The executive directors did not participate in this plan.
Information relating to share option valuation techniques The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year over the Companys shares under the Home Retail Group plc Sharesave Plan, determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, was 0.15 2011: 0.27 per option.
The significant inputs into the option pricing model were as follows: 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 March 26 February 2012 2011 m m Weighted average: Share price on grant date 1.64 2.10 Exercise price 1.71 2.00 Expected volatility 43.6% 46.3% Expected dividend yield 7.6% 7.0% Risk free interest rate 1.7% 2.0% Expected option life to exercise 3.4 years 3.7 years Expected volatility is a measure of expected fluctuations in the share price over the expected life of an option.
For each financial year the measure of volatility used by the Company in its pricing model has been calculated by using implied volatility from market quoted prices of traded options over the Companys shares.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 30.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS CONTINUED Reconciliation of movement in the number of share options 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 3 March 2012 26 February 2011 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise price Number of exercise price options options Outstanding at beginning of year 18,843,864 2.33 19,663,411 2.41 Granted 6,256,209 1.71 3,097,096 2.00 Forfeited 9,687,576 1.96 3,469,209 2.44 Exercised 19,709 1.90 184,091 1.91 Expired 736,499 3.73 263,343 3.45 Outstanding at year-end 14,656,289 2.26 18,843,864 2.33 Exercisable at year-end 3,102,350 3.54 3,788,433 3.61 The weighted average share price for share options exercised during the year was 2.16 2011: 2.40.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year Share options at the end of the year had the following exercise prices and remaining contractual lives: As at 3 March 2012 Weighted Weighted average average remaining lives exercise Range of exercise prices Number of price Expected Contractual options years years 1.00 1.99 7,712,241 1.77 2.4 2.9 2.00 2.99 3,493,512 2.00 1.7 2.2 3.00 3.99 3,450,536 3.63 0.1 2.9 As at 26 February 2011 Weighted Weighted average average remaining lives exercise Range of exercise prices Number of price Expected Contractual options years years 1.00 1.99 9,153,094 1.90 1.3 1.8 2.00 2.99 5,396,583 2.00 2.6 3.1 3.00 3.99 4,294,187 3.64 0.1 3.6 Information relating to share award valuation techniques The value of the awards is determined as the observed market closing share price on the date awarded grants are issued to participants.
For the deferred bonus plan, this occurs after the first year of performance is assessed.
The performance share plans and the re-investment plans market-based performance condition is included in the fair value measurement on grant date and is not revised for actual performance.
All of the share awards are equity-settled.
Under the share awards, the participants have an entitlement to either dividend equivalents or dividend distributions from issue date until point of vesting.
The observed market share price on the day of valuation is considered inclusive of future dividend distributions.
There were 8,663,902 ordinary share awards 2011: 9,125,521 granted during the year with a weighted average fair value of 1.66 2011: 1.88.
94 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION 31.
OPERATING LEASES 2012 2011 m m Future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Less than one year 357.8 364.7 Between one and five years 1,248.7 1,308.1 More than five years 1,678.2 1,994.9 Total operating leases 3,284.7 3,667.7 The Group leases various retail stores, offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses, contingent rentals and renewal rights.
COMMITMENTS 2012 2011 m m Capital expenditure for which contracts have been placed: Property, plant and equipment 2.6 13.1 Intangible assets 2.0 3.2 Total commitments 4.6 16.3 In addition, the Group is committed to providing 9.1m to its associate, HH Retail Limited and its subsidiaries, by way of equity and loans with a further 12.8m becoming payable subject to the fulfilment of certain conditions.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES There are a number of contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of business, which if realised, are not expected to result in a material liability to the Group.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 March 26 February 2012 2011 Cash generated from operations m m Profit before tax 104.1 265.2 Adjustments for: Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures and associates 0.5 0.1 Net financing income 4.9 7.1 Operating profit 98.7 258.0 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 1.8 0.7 Depreciation and amortisation 126.5 127.5 Finance expense charged to Financial Services cost of sales 3.4 3.2 Decrease increase in inventories 85.8 81.4 Decrease increase in receivables 16.1 27.5 Decrease increase in payables 102.5 19.0 Movement in working capital 0.6 89.9 Increase decrease in provisions 5.0 20.3 Movement in retirement benefit obligations 8.6 10.9 Share-based payment expense net of dividend equivalent payments 8.3 10.5 Cash generated from operations 234.5 278.8 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 35.
RELATED PARTIES The ultimate parent company of the Group is Home Retail Group plc.
The principal subsidiary and associated undertakings at 3 March 2012 are shown in note 37.
Transactions between Home Retail Group plc and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions carried out with related parties in the normal course of business are summarised below: Associates The Group provided an amount of 1.2m by way of loan to its associate, Ogalas Limited.
At 3 March 2012, the amount owed by Ogalas Limited to the Group was 1.1m.
There were no other material transactions between the Group and its associates.
Key management personnel Remuneration of key management personnel is disclosed in note 8.
During the year, there were no material transactions or balances between the Group and its key management personnel or members of their close families.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS There are no material post balance sheet events.
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATED UNDERTAKINGS Country of Percentage of Description incorporation ordinary shares held Home Retail Group UK Limited Group holding company England 100 Argos Limited General merchandise retailing England 100 Argos Distributors Ireland Limited General merchandise retailing Republic of Ireland 100 Homebase Limited Home enhancement retailing England 100 Homebase House and Garden Centre Limited Home enhancement retailing Republic of Ireland 100 Hampden Group Limited Home enhancement retailing Northern Ireland 100 Home Retail Group Card Services Limited Financial services England 100 ARG Personal Loans Limited Financial services England 100 Argos Business Solutions Limited Financial services England 100 Home Retail Group Insurance Services Limited Financial services England 100 Home Retail Group Hong Kong Limited Product sourcing for the Hong Kong 100 Home Retail Group companies Held directly by the Parent Company.
Details of interests in associated undertakings are given within note 18.
96 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012
