GOVERNANCE Board of Directors and Operating Board Oliver Stocken Terry Duddy Richard Ashton John Coombe Mike Darcey Cath Keers Ian Durant Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director Director Paul Loft John Walden Greg Ball Peter Connor Maria Thompson David Guise Gordon Bentley Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Information Commercial Human Resources Company Homebase Argos Customer and Systems Director Director Director Secretary Financial Services BOARD OF DIRECTORS PROFILES finance roles in the UK.
He joined Argos Retail Director of both Greene King and Greggs.
Group as Finance Director in 2001 and, in In his earlier career he worked for Hanson Oliver Stocken, Chairman 70 October 2006, became Finance Director of and Jardine Matheson and was Finance Director Oliver was a director of NM Rothschild & Sons Home Retail Group.
of Hongkong Land, Dairy Farm International and held several roles within Barclays Group, and Thistle Hotels and Chief Finance Officer of culminating in his appointment as Group Finance John Coombe, Non-Executive Director 67 SeaContainers.
He joined the Home Retail Group Director of Barclays.
He joined the GUS board John held a number of senior financial roles Board in July 2011. in 2000, where he chaired the Audit Committee within Charterhouse Group and Charter and subsequently the Remuneration Committee Consolidated before joining Glaxo Holdings Cath Keers, Non-Executive Director 47 and became Chairman of Home Retail Group in 1986.
Appointed to the board in 1992, Cath started her retail career with Thorn EMI in October 2006.
Oliver is a Non-Executive he was ultimately Chief Financial Officer of and, after marketing and business development Director of Standard Chartered, Chairman of GlaxoSmithKline for five years before retiring roles at Sky TV, Avon and Next, joined the BT Stanhope, Chairman of the Trustees of the in 2005.
He joined the GUS board in 2005 and Group in 1996, holding a number of commercial Natural History Museum and Chairman of the became the Senior Independent Director of roles, including Marketing Director O2, Chairman Marylebone Cricket Club.
Home Retail Group in October 2006.
He is of Tesco Mobile and Customer Director O2.
a Non-Executive Director of HSBC Holdings, She is a Non-Executive Director of Telefonica O2 Terry Duddy, Chief Executive 56 Chairman of Hogg Robinson Group and a former Europe, the Royal Mail Group and LV.
Cath Terry began his career at Letraset and joined member of the Code Committee of the Panel joined the Home Retail Group Board in Dixons Stores Group in 1984, holding positions of Takeover and Mergers and of the UK September 2011. including Sales Director of Currys, Product Accounting Standards Board.
Marketing Director of Dixons Stores Group and Biographies of members of the Operating Managing Director of PC World.
He joined GUS Mike Darcey, Non-Executive Director 46 Board can be found on our corporate website in 1998 as Chief Executive of the newly acquired Mike joined BSkyB in 1998 as Head of Strategic www.
Argos, becoming a GUS director later that year.
Planning before becoming Group Director of He was appointed Chief Executive of Argos Retail Strategy and then Chief Operating Officer.
Group in 2000 and of Home Retail Group in He sits on the boards of two channel joint BOARD COMMITTEES October 2006.
He is a Non-Executive Director ventures National Geographic Channel of Hammerson.
Audit Committee: outside the USA and Nickelodeon UK John Coombe Chairman, Mike Darcey, and is Chairman of the Board of Trustees Richard Ashton, Finance Director 45 Ian Durant, Cath Keers of the Royal Television Society.
Mike joined Richard started his career at Home Retail Group in April 2010.
Remuneration Committee: , where he trained Mike Darcey Chairman, John Coombe, as a chartered accountant, and joined GE Ian Durant, Non-Executive Director 53 Ian Durant, Cath Keers, Oliver Stocken in 1994, spending eight years in a variety Ian is a former Finance Director of Liberty of positions including Chief Financial Officer Nomination Committee: International renamed Capital Shopping of GE Capitals pan-European equipmentOliver Stocken Chairman, John Coombe, Centres Group and is Chairman of Capital & financing business, assistant to GE Capitals Mike Darcey, Terry Duddy, Ian Durant, Cath Keers Counties Properties and a Non-Executive Chief Financial Officer in the US and various 32 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012
