Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL AND ACQUISITION INTANGIBLE ASSETS The annual impairment assessment in respect of goodwill and acquisition intangibles requires estimates of the value in use or fair value less costs to sell of cash-generating units to which goodwill and acquisition intangibles have been allocated.
As a result, estimates of future cash flows are required, together with an appropriate discount factor for the purpose of determining the present value of those cash flows.
The carrying value of goodwill is 260.9m 2011: 192.1m.
The carrying value of acquisition intangibles is 111.4m 2011: 37.1m.
Following the annual impairment review, no impairment charge has been recorded against acquisition intangibles in either year.
As set out in note 6, an impairment charge of 3.9m 2011: nil was recorded against goodwill relating to the Groups Belgian operations which have been disposed of.
As set out in note 14, reasonably possible changes in respect of commercial outcomes around sales volumes, prices, margins and discount rates can impact the recoverable value.
Management believes that it is unlikely that there will be any changes to the key assumptions in the forthcoming year.
REVENUE An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2012 2011 m m Provision of services 534.7 467.1 Investment income note 9 0.1 0.1 534.8 467.2 5. BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS SEGMENT REVENUES AND RESULTS IFRS8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, who is considered to be the Group Chief Executive, to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
Inter-segment revenue is charged at prevailing market prices.
Segment profit loss represents the result of each segment including allocating costs associated with head office and shared functions, but before allocating investment income, finance costs, gain on re-measurement and tax.
This is the measure reported to the Group Chief Executive for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in Significant Accounting Policies.
Group cost allocations are deducted in arriving at segmental operating profit.
In relation to the period 1 April 2011 to 7 December 2011 and for the entire prior year when Domo in France was our joint venture, the following adjustments were made for segmental reporting purposes: a revenue was included in Total Revenue and b shareholder fees from Domo were added back.
