Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements RELATIONSHIPS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board, on the Companys behalf, recognises the need to maintain an active dialogue with its shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer meet regularly with institutional investors and analysts to discuss the Companys performance and all shareholders have access to the Chairman and independent Senior Non-Executive Director, who are available to discuss any questions which investors may have in relation to the running of the Company.
The Board encourages shareholders to attend the Annual General Meeting and is always willing to answer questions, either in the meeting itself or, more informally, afterwards.
In addition, shareholders may contact HomeServe direct, either through its website or by telephoning its offices.
The Board also recognises the need to ensure that all Directors are fully aware of the views of major shareholders.
Copies of all analysts research relating to the Company are circulated to Directors upon publication.
The Board receive a monthly Investor Relations report which includes an analysis of the Companys shareholder register as well as any feedback received from shareholders and analysts.
GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans statement and the Chief Executives review.
Principal risks and uncertainties are detailed in the Financial review.
In addition, the Financial review includes, amongst other things, cash flow and financing information.
The Directors confirm that, after reviewing the Groups budget and projected cash flows, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
INTERNAL CONTROLS The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has delegated the day to day management of the Company to the Group Chief Executive and the other Executive Directors.
The system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
As detailed in the Chairmans statement and Chief Executives review, the issues identified in the UK business during the year indicate that there has been a breakdown in certain internal controls in the UK business in the year which has given rise to exceptional one-off expenditure.
The Board commissioned a thorough review of the issues which was led by the Group Chief Executive and the Group Assurance Director.
The Board considered the outcome of this review and has agreed a number of specific actions and work is underway to address the areas of concern.
In addition to the general internal review, a number of specific reviews of the UK business have been undertaken by external advisers.
A business improvement programme has been established, consisting of a number of focused workstreams and this work will continue into 2012 13.
