FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Year ended 31 March 2012 23.
CURRENT LIABILITIES TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES CONTINUED Deferred income represents revenue where an obligation exists to provide future services.
An appropriate proportion of monies received in advance are treated as deferred income and recognised over the relevant period.
Other creditors mainly represent liabilities for amounts to be collected from policyholders in respect of the cost of underwriting and Insurance Premium Tax.
In addition, short-term cash advances from customers are included in other creditors until the services are performed and the customer is invoiced.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value.
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Contingent Deferred and deferred income consideration Total m m m At 1 April 2011 12.5 6.9 19.4 Movement in year 1.8 1.8 3.6 At 31 March 2012 10.7 5.1 15.8 Deferred income represents revenue where an obligation exists to provide future services.
No discounting is applied to deferred income balances.
Contingent and deferred consideration relates to future amounts payable on prior acquisitions.
The movement in the year represents the reclassification of an element of the liability to less than one year, foreign exchange movements and acquisitions in the year.
PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES PROVISIONS UK matters m At 1 April 2011 Created in the year 24.2 Utilised 3.2 At 31 March 2012 21.0 The above provision represents managements best estimate of the Groups liability relating to the UK issues identified in the year.
The provision is expected to be utilised within the next 12 18 months and is comprised of a number of one-off costs relating to re-organisation, redundancy, additional third party support, re-contacting of customers, compensation and the Ofcom fine.
The provision has been based on managements forecasts which include initial pilot re-contact exercises.
The assumptions used relating to the number of customers, level of compensation, response rate and upheld rate require the use of judgement and estimation.
