FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Year ended 31 March 2012 37.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS During the year ended 31 March 2012, the Group had five 2011: five share-based payment arrangements, which are described below: I EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION PLAN ESOP The ESOP provides for a grant price equal to the closing quoted market price of the Companys shares on the day before the date of grant.
The vesting period is three years and is dependent upon the real increase in Earnings Per Share over the vesting period.
In addition, since 2006, vesting has also been dependant upon a share price target.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the date of grant, the options expire.
II 2005 KEY EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE PLAN KEIP The KEIP provides for a grant price equal to the closing quoted market price of the Companys shares on the day before the date of grant.
The awards vest in two tranches, the first being between three and four years from the date of grant and the second being on the second anniversary of the vesting of the first tranche.
The number of awards vesting was dependent upon the Profit Before Tax of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2008 and was subject to a minimum share price criteria during the year ending 31 March 2009.
III LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP The LTIP provides for the grant of performance and matching awards.
The vesting period is three years and for the awards granted in 2008 and 2009 vesting is dependent upon the Total Shareholder Return performance of the Group over the relevant performance period.
From 2010, 50% of the award is dependent upon Total Shareholder Return and 50% is subject to a target based on Earnings per Share growth.
If the awards remain unexercised after a period of one year from vesting, they expire.
IV DEFERRED BONUS PLAN DBP The Deferred Bonus Plan enabled the individual to defer receipt of their annual cash bonus up to a maximum of 100% and to invest an equivalent amount in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
The deferred bonus may be matched by the Company dependent upon the Companys relative Total Shareholder Return over a three year period, up to a maximum of 300% of the deferred amount for upper decile performance.
The shares cannot normally be exercised for three years and lapse if not exercised within 10 years from the date of grant.
V SAVE AS YOU EARN SCHEME SAYE The SAYE is open to all UK employees and provides for an exercise price equal to the closing quoted market price on the day before the date of grant, less a discretionary discount.
The options can be exercised during a six month period following the completion of either a three or five year savings period.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 123 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Year ended 31 March 2012 37.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 3.66 2011: 4.59.
The estimated fair values are calculated by applying a Black-Scholes option pricing model for the ESOP and SAYE and Monte Carlo simulations for the KEIP, LTIP and Deferred Bonus Plan.
The assumptions used in the models which are comparable to the prior year are as follows: Input Assumption Share price Price at date of grant Exercise price Per scheme rules Expected volatility 20% 45% Option life Per scheme rules Expected dividends Based on historic dividend yield Risk free interest rate 3.1% 5.2% 124 Annual Report & Accounts 2012
