GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is led by the Chairman, Barry Gibson.
The Chairmans responsibilities are clearly defined in a written specification agreed by the Board and which make clear the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
They include the smooth running of the Board, effective communication between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the general progress and long-term development of the Group.
During the year, in addition to the Chairman, five independent Non-Executive Directors Messrs Chippendale, Mingay, Morris and Sibbald and Mrs David with extensive business, finance and marketing backgrounds, provided the Board with a breadth of experience and with independent judgement.
Ian Chippendale served as the Companys independent Senior Non-Executive Director.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, each Director is subject to election by the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting immediately following his appointment and is subject to re-election every year thereafter.
Short biographies of each of the Directors including their membership of committees may be found on page 48.
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company and the options held as at 31 March 2012 and 22 May 2012 are set out in the Remuneration report.
None of the Directors serving at the year end had a beneficial interest in the share capital of any subsidiary company.
SUCCESSION PLANNING A succession planning process has been established and plans for each business within the Group drawn up.
The Executive Committee reviews the plans in detail twice a year and the Board reviews the high level plan at least annually.
BOARD MEETINGS Up to ten regular meetings are held each year to review and monitor current and forecast performance.
Regular reports on monthly performance and other matters of importance to the Group ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with the information necessary to make informed judgements.
In addition, the Board has an annual strategy meeting, also attended by senior operational management, to devise and discuss the Companys medium and long-term strategic focus and management development strategy.
Regular formal and informal presentations are given and meetings held in order to inform Directors of issues of importance affecting the Group.
Occasionally, meetings of the Board are held at the Companys operating sites other than Walsall, in order to afford the Board, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, with the opportunity to meet with local management.
