Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The Group also provides employees with the ability to purchase the Groups ordinary shares at a discount to the current market value through Save As You Earn schemes.
The Group also issues cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
For cash-settled sharebased payments, a liability is recognised for the services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the liability.
At each balance sheet date, until the liability is settled, the fair value of the liability is re-measured with any changes in fair value recognised in the profit or loss for the year.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes model or Monte Carlo Simulation models depending on the type of scheme.
OWN SHARES RESERVE Shares of the parent Company that are purchased by the HomeServe plc Employee Benefit Trust are held at cost and shown as a deduction in equity.
Cost comprises consideration paid, including directly attributable costs.
The shares are held to satisfy obligations under the share option schemes.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Year ended 31 March 2012 3.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY CONTINUED REVENUE RECOGNITION An appropriate proportion of revenue, sufficient to cover future costs and margin, is deferred to future periods when the Group has obligations extending to future periods.
As a result, judgement is required in assessing the extent and associated costs of fulfilling those future obligations.
The Group uses historical experience and forecast activity levels in determining the appropriate amount of revenue to recognise in the current period and how much to defer to future periods.
An assessment is also made of any factors that are likely to materially affect the economic benefits which will flow to the Group such as policy cancellations.
To the extent that economic benefits are not expected to flow to the Group, the value of that revenue is not recognised.
The Group uses historical experience in determining the appropriate amount of revenue to recognise.
VALUATION OF ACQUISITION INTANGIBLE ASSETS Acquisitions may result in customer relationships and customer databases being recognised as intangible assets.
These are valued using the excess earnings method.
In applying this methodology certain key judgements and estimates are required to be made in respect of future cash flows together with an appropriate discount factor for the purpose of determining the present value of those cash flows.
GAIN ON RE-MEASUREMENT The Group acquired the remaining 51% equity interest in Domo and its subsidiary Domo Assistance from its joint venture partner on 7 December 2011.
As required by IFRS3 2008 Business Combinations, this acquisition has resulted in the joint venture interest being re-measured to its fair value at the acquisition date.
The Group applied accounting judgements whilst re-measuring to fair value.
EXCEPTIONAL EXPENDITURE Included in exceptional operating costs are amounts relating to addressing the issues identified in the UK business totalling 24.2m.
These amounts include the expected cost and compensation associated with the remediation activities underway with regard to the sales, marketing and complaints handling issues previously identified.
There are a number of significant assumptions supporting the expected level of expenditure including the number of customers, the amount of compensation awarded, response rate and upheld rate.
Moreover, these programmes of remediation are still in their early stages and hence there is limited comparable data available in the Group against which to assess these judgements.
As a result the exceptional expenditure recognised, whilst representing the Directors best estimate at the time, is subject to uncertainty and the outcome may be different.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES There is currently no certainty as to the nature or extent of the action, if any, that the FSA may seek to take following the conclusion of its investigation and accordingly any related financial effect, which could include a fine, cannot be estimated reliably.
As a result, no provisions have been made in this regard in the current year.
