FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Year ended 31 March 2012 6.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS GAIN ON RE-MEASUREMENT OF JOINT VENTURE INTEREST ON ACQUISITION OF CONTROL The Group acquired the remaining 51% equity interest in Domo and its subsidiary Domo Assistance from its joint venture partner on 7 December 2011.
As required by IFRS3 2008 Business Combinations, this acquisition has resulted in the joint venture interest being re-measured to its fair value at the acquisition date.
The deemed disposal of the former joint venture interest has generated a gain of 54.9m.
The Group has shown the deemed disposal of the previously held joint venture interest in note 18 and the acquisition of control in note 33.
EXCEPTIONAL EXPENDITURE Exceptional expenditure of 31.1m has been incurred and provided in the following three areas: UK matters As a result of the sales, marketing and customer complaints handling issues identified during the year, there are a number of one-off charges amounting to 24.2m, which include the following areas: i. re-organisation and redundancy costs have been incurred and provided for as a result of the extensive change programme that is now being implemented in the UK business: ii.
additional third party support costs have been incurred and provided for in relation to reviewing scripts, policy documentation terms and conditions and call monitoring: iii.
costs in relation to the re-contacting of customers including, where appropriate, compensation payments, have been provided for: and iv.
the Ofcom regulatory fine imposed in April 2012 has been provided for.
The total costs settled in cash to date amount to 3.2m, the remainder is provided for as set out in note 25.
Disposal of Belgian businesses During the year, a loss of 3.9m was incurred relating to the reduction in the carrying value of goodwill in the Group's Belgian operations.
After recording this charge, the business disposal process completed at nil gain or loss.
Domo acquisition costs In respect of the acquisition of the Domo business, there were costs of 3.0m relating to legal and financial advisory services and other related costs.
