Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE SHARES The Company was authorised at the 2011 AGM to purchase its own shares, within certain limits and as permitted by the Articles of Association.
A renewal of this authority will be proposed at the 2012 AGM.
No shares were purchased during the year and no shares are held in Treasury.
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS CHANGE OF CONTROL There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employees share plans.
The Groups bank facility agreements contain provisions that, on 30 days notice, the lenders may exercise their discretion to require prepayment of the loans on a change of control and to cancel all commitments.
No other agreements are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors and employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The 2012 Annual General Meeting of the Company is to be held on 20 July 2012.
The notice of the meeting accompanies this report.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS Each of the Directors confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
A resolution proposing the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor and authorising the Board to fix their remuneration will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
FIXED ASSETS Capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets amounted to 5.3m 2011: 10.1m during the year.
DONATIONS Charitable donations of 70,000 2011: 79,000 were made during the year.
No political contributions were made in either year.
Further details of the Companys charity activities are available in the Corporate responsibility report.
