Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2012 Independent auditors report to the members of Howden Joinery Group Plc We have audited the parent company financial OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS statements of Howden Joinery Group Plc for the 53 In our opinion the parent company financial statements: weeks ended 29 December 2012 which comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 29 December 2012: 10.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United have been properly prepared in accordance with Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Practice: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, have been prepared in accordance with the as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 requirements of the Companies Act 2006. of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY members those matters we are required to state to them THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or In our opinion: assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be and the Companys members as a body, for our audit audited has been properly prepared in accordance work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
with the Companies Act 2006: and RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS the information given in the Directors Report for AND AUDITOR the financial year for which the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities are prepared is consistent with the parent company Statement, the directors are responsible for the financial statements.
preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION the parent company financial statements in accordance We have nothing to report in respect of the following with applicable law and International Standards on matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us report to you if, in our opinion: to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE have not been received from branches not visited by FINANCIAL STATEMENTS us: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts the parent company financial statements and the part and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and are free from material misstatement, whether caused by returns: or fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent certain disclosures of directors remuneration companys circumstances and have been consistently specified by law are not made: or applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the we have not received all the information and directors: and the overall presentation of the financial explanations we require for our audit.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify OTHER MATTER material inconsistencies with the audited financial We have reported separately on the Group financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent statements of Howden Joinery Group Plc for the material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider 53 weeks ended 29 December 2012. the implications for our report.
Edward Hanson Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 27 February 2013 115
