Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 12 Five Years of Progress Over the past five years, Hunting PLC has been transformed from a group of companies trading in diverse segments of the energy sector with local geographies and various brands.
Following a programme of targeted divestment, acquisition and expansion, the Group has become a focused leader in the provision of equipment to the upstream energy industry, united under the Hunting brand.
2010 Acquisition of Innova Extel The related diversification into electronics and volume component manufacturing at the heart of MWD LWD tools used in directional drilling.
This allowed for the backward integration of printed circuit boards into existing tools and systems.
2009 Acquisition of Welltonic, PT SMB Industri and National Coupling Company 2008 The European, Asian and North American operations were bolstered 710m Sale of Gibson Energy by purchases which added depth Acquisitions This was the single biggest step to the manufacturing base and on the road to becoming a pure broadened its technical offering upstream energy services Group.
With these The disposal marked the exit from purchases, entry was gained into the the mid and downstream sectors that coiled tubing market to reinforce the spanned trucking, pipeline, refining existing well intervention business and and retail operations in Canada.
advanced manufacturing techniques for the subsea arena.
Sale of Hunting Energy France A group of regional companies that provided a range of equipment to the French mid and downstream markets.
Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 13 2011 Acquisition of the Titan Group 130m Expansion capital expenditure The largest acquisition in Huntings history has allowed the Group to become an industry leader in perforating systems, energetics and well logging equipment.
It broadens the product range and simplifies the single source offering of equipment essential to the successful 2011 development of the wellbore.
Manufacturing of subcomponents Acquisition of Dearborn, W. L. has been optimised with existing Doffing and Specialty Supply facilities and taken to a global stage, while the field distribution A deep strengthening of the Groups network has benefited core capability in precision machining existing Hunting of critical tolerance components used products.
in crucial MWD LWD applications.
Hunting Innova, Hunting Dearborn and Hunting Doffing form the businesses within the Advanced Manufacturing Group.
I am confident we will be able 2012 to take advantage of further Sale of Field Aviation development in this exciting This historic event marks the industry.
completion of the Groups journey from mini conglomerate at the turn Richard Hunting C. B. E. Chairman of the Millennium to an energy services provider today.
