BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. significant accounting policies Introduction IMI plc the Company is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and applicable law IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP and these are presented on pages 132 to 137.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 6 March 2013. a Restatements and changes in accounting estimates i Restatement relating to TH Jansen Armaturen GmbH THJ acquisition In accordance with IFRS3 revised, following the nalisation of the balances relating to the THJ acquisition reported in the 2011 consolidated financial statements, the 2011 balance sheet has been restated.
The details of this restatement are set out in note 3.2. ii Restatement relating to taxation on items included in other comprehensive income Following a review of the allocation of taxation to items of other comprehensive income, comparative amounts for the year ended 31 December 2011 have been revised.
There is neither any net effect on equity nor on total comprehensive income for the period net of tax.
In the 2011 comparatives the income tax effect on exchange differences on translation of foreign operations net of hedge settlements and funding revaluations has been restated from a 0.3m credit to a 0.1m credit, the income tax effect on the fair value gain on available for sale financial assets has been restated from nil to a 0.5m charge and the income tax effect on the actuarial loss has been restated from a 15.5m credit to a 16.2m credit.
This change also resulted in a decrease of 0.2m in the translation reserve and a corresponding increase in retained earnings.
iii The IMI Pension Funds interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership As a result of discussions with the Financial Reporting Review Panel, which are ongoing, we have re-assessed the basis for the valuation of the IMI Pension Funds interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership for the purpose of that assets inclusion within the net dened benefit obligation reported in our 31 December 2012 balance sheet under IAS19.
The effect of the re-assessment was to reduce the value of this plan asset by 22.6m, recognised as an actuarial loss in the period, thereby increasing the reported net dened benefit obligation by the same amount.
The deferred taxation asset relating to the net dened benefit obligation increased by 5.2m.
The effect of this change on the comparative period would have been signicantly lower and is not sufciently material to require a prior year adjustment.
iv Change of accounting estimate for the amortisation of customer relationships During the period, the Group amended its estimate for the phasing of the future consumption of the economic benets associated with its customer relationships, by changing the amortisation of these assets to a sum of digits approach from a straight-line approach.
This change was made because the Groups experience with recent acquisitions has been that the economic benets of these assets are demonstrably consumed to a greater extent in the periods more directly following the acquisition.
The effect of this change of accounting estimate on the period was to increase the amortisation charge relating to acquisition intangibles by approximately 10m.
The estimated effect for the year ending 31 December 2013 is an increase of 5m in the charge compared to the charge on a straight-line basis.
b Basis of accounting The financial statements are presented in Pounds sterling which is the Companys functional currency, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, except revenues, which are rounded to the nearest whole million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments: available-for-sale financial assets: financial assets and liabilities identied as hedged items: and assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale, where applicable, are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 77 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. significant accounting policies continued b Basis of accounting continued The policies described in this section and in the accompanying notes have been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of these consolidated financial statements except as discussed below.
i New or amended EU Endorsed Accounting Standards adopted by the Group during 2012 The following standards were adopted in these financial statements but had no impact on the financial statements.
IAS12 Income Taxes Amendment Deferred Taxes: Recovery of Underlying Assets s IFRS1 First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Amendment Severe Hyperination s and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-Time Adopters IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets s ii Issued Accounting Standards which are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2012 Accounting impacts IAS19 Employee Benets Amendment s The IASB has issued numerous amendments to IAS19.
These include a fundamental change which will affect the basis by which the Group apportions finance income between the income statement and other comprehensive income from 1 January 2013.
Had this change been effective for 2012 we estimate that the nancing cost would have increased by 18.8m.
The main impact on the Group of the other changes is to increase the disclosure requirements.
Presentational impact only IAS1 Financial Statement Presentation Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income Amendment s The amendments to IAS1 change the grouping of items presented in other comprehensive income.
Items that could be reclassied or recycled to profit or loss at a future point in time for example, upon derecognition or settlement are presented separately from items that will never be reclassied.
The amendment will only have a presentational affect on the Group when it is adopted from 1 January 2013.
IFRS12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities s IFRS12 includes all of the disclosures that were previously included in IAS27 related to consolidated financial statements, as well as all of the disclosures that were previously included in IAS28 and IAS31.
These disclosures relate to an entitys interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured entities and also include a number of new disclosures.
This standard will only have a presentational effect on the Group when it is adopted from 1 January 2013.
Impact to be confirmed IFRS9 Financial Instruments: Classication and Measurement s IFRS9 as issued reects the first phase of the IASBs work on the replacement of IAS39 and applies to the classication and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities as dened in IAS39.
The adoption of the first phase of IFRS9 will have an effect on the classication and measurement of the Groups financial assets, but will potentially have no impact on classication and measurements of financial liabilities.
The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture.
This new standard will be effective from accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
No impact anticipated IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Right of Set-Off Amendment : Effective for our 2013 financial statements s IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements: Effective for our 2013 financial statements s IFRS11 Joint Arrangements: Effective for our 2013 financial statements s IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement: Effective for our 2013 financial statements s IAS28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures revised : Effective for our 2013 financial statements s IAS32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32: Effective for our 2014 s financial statements Financial statements 78 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In addition the following May 2012 Annual Improvements are effective for our 2013 financial statements but will have no impact on the Group.
IFRS1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards s IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements s IAS16 Property, Plant and Equipment s IAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation s IAS34 Interim Financial Reporting s The Group intends to adopt all the above standards and improvements when they become effective.
c Subsidiaries and non-controlling interests The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of IMI plc and the entities it controls its subsidiaries for the year to 31 December.
The Group has no significant interests which are accounted for as associates or joint ventures as at 31 December 2012.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
All intragroup balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated in full.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it: derecognises the assets including any goodwill relating to the subsidiary and liabilities of the subsidiary: s derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest: s derecognises the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity: s recognises the fair value of the consideration received: s recognises the fair value of any investment retained: s recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss: s reclassies the parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or s retained earnings, as appropriate.
Taxation on the above accounting entries would also be recognised where applicable.
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the parent company and the IMI Pension Fund interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership the partnership.
Non-controlling interests are presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance.
d Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
i Judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, the following judgements have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements: Consolidation of the Scottish Limited Partnership and inclusion of the IMI Pension Funds interest in this special purpose entity as a non-controlling interest In June 2010, the Group made a special contribution to the IMI Pension Fund of 48.6m which the Trustee agreed to invest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership, an entity controlled by the Group, which confers upon the Fund conditional rights to receive income of 4.4m a year for twenty years, or until the Fund becomes fully funded.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 79 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. significant accounting policies continued d Use of estimates and judgements continued i Judgements continued One of the judgements involved in this issue was whether this entity qualied as a special purpose entity as dened by SIC12: Consolidation Special Purpose Entities, and whether, in applying this interpretation, the entity should be consolidated.
It was determined that the entity meets the denition of a special purpose entity under SIC12 and furthermore, upon consideration of the criteria in this interpretation, it was determined that consolidation was appropriate.
There are certain conditions under which the Group can defer the amounts payable to the Pension Fund, in particular, the Partnership Agreement includes a clause under which the payments in the year are deferred in the event that the Group has not paid a dividend in the preceding year.
Because the Group has the ability to defer such payments indefinitely and is in control of the circumstances under which the arrangement can be terminated, the payments envisaged by the agreement are discretionary and therefore do not constitute a liability under IAS32.
As such the Pension Funds interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership has been recorded as a non-controlling interest, as a component of equity.
Contingent liability As discussed in note 26, in May 2012 companies belonging to a British builders merchant served damages claims against IMI plc and others relating to alleged financial losses incurred in the UK as a result of anticompetitive behaviour undertaken by a number of manufacturers of copper plumbing tubes and copper plumbing ttings.
As a result of significant uncertainties inherent in this position, we determined that as at 31 December 2012 it was not possible to assess properly whether any losses can be established by the claimant and, if so, the potential quantum or timing of such losses and if necessary, the contributions recoverable from other parties, including IMIs former tubes and ttings subsidiaries.
ii Estimates and assumptions The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are described below.
The Group bases its assumptions and estimates on information available when the consolidated financial statements are prepared.
Market changes or circumstances arising beyond the control of the Group are reected in the assumptions when they occur.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
Impairment of non-financial assets Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
The value in use is based on a discounted cash ow model.
Cash ows are derived from the Groups long-term forecasts for the next three years.
The principal sensitivities in this calculation are the discount rate, the expected future cash inows and the growth rate used to calculate the terminal value.
Further information on this process and the assets affected are included in note 12.
Valuation of intangibles Accounting standards require separately identiable intangible assets to be recognised on acquisitions.
This process involves a number of different valuation techniques for the classes of intangible asset recognised, which, for the Groups recent acquisitions, have principally related to customer-related and technology-related assets.
The principal estimates required in valuing these intangible assets generally relate to predicting the future cash ows to be generated by the assets as well as the rates used to discount them.
Disposed businesses The Company has disposed of a number of its previous businesses.
The sale agreements contained various warranties and indemnities.
In some cases, the agreements also include the potential for adjustment to the purchase price, sometimes contingent on future events.
At the time of disposal, the accounts reect the best estimate of the likely future impact of these agreements.
These estimates are then regularly reviewed and provisions are recognised where necessary.
Financial statements 80 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Share-based payments The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which they are granted.
Estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions requires determination of the most appropriate valuation model, which is dependent on the terms and conditions of the grant.
This estimate also requires determination of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected life of the share option, volatility and dividend yield and related assumptions.
These assumptions and the models used for estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions are disclosed in note 20.
Taxes Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations, changes in tax laws, and the amount and timing of future taxable income.
Given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and the assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to the tax income and expense already recorded.
The Group establishes provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for possible consequences of audits by the tax authorities of the respective countries in which it operates.
The amount of such provisions is based on various factors, such as experience of previous tax audits and differing interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable entity and the responsible tax authority.
Such differences of interpretation may arise on a wide variety of issues depending on the conditions prevailing in the respective domicile of the Group companies.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be utilised.
significant management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level of future taxable profits.
Trading provisions The Group sells a wide range of highly technical products and although its products are designed and engineered to a high degree of precision and to customer specications, there will always be a risk of products requiring modication, which can lead to warranty claims as well as excess or obsolete inventory, collection risk regarding receivables and other trading provisions.
Provisions are held against these risks, which are estimated based on past experience of claims and by measuring the likely use of inventory in the future against past usage.
The degree of dependence on future events makes these estimates inherently subjective.
Employee benets The present value of the Groups dened benefit pension plans and other post-employment benets are determined using actuarial valuations.
An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from actual developments in the future.
These include the determination of the discount rate, ination, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the complexity of the valuation and its long-term nature, a dened benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions.
In particular, the valuation of the IMI Pension Funds interest in the Scottish Limited Partnership is a highly subjective area because its valuation depends on an actuarial assessment of the amount a third party might be willing to pay for the asset, taking into account the risk that the associated income stream could either cease in the event that the IMI Pension Fund became fully funded or become deferred in any year in which no dividend was paid to the shareholders.
These assumptions, accompanied by sensitivity analysis thereon, are included in note 19.
Fair value measurement of contingent consideration Because they are forfeitable in some of the instances in which the vendors might leave the business, certain amounts payable under contingent consideration arrangements resulting from business combinations in these consolidated financial statements have been treated as remuneration in accordance with IFRS3 Revised.
These are assessed at fair value and charged to the income statement in the period over which the Group receives the benefit of the vendors employment services.
The determination of this fair value is based on an estimate of the future performance of the business which is dependent on the acquired businesss performance over a specic future timeframe and is therefore subject to estimation uncertainty.
These amounts are treated as exceptional items in accordance with note f to these accounting policies and further details are disclosed in note 3.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 81 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. significant accounting policies continued d Use of estimates and judgements continued ii Estimates and assumptions continued Development costs Development costs are capitalised in accordance when they meet the criteria set out in IAS38: Intangible Assets.
Initial capitalisation of costs is based on managements judgement regarding the technological and economical feasibility of the asset, and only when a product development project has reached a point where such determinations can be made.
In testing these assets for impairment, management makes assumptions regarding the expected future cash generation of the project, discount rates to be applied and the expected period of benets.
Further details are disclosed in note 12. e Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benets will ow to the Group and that the revenue can be reliably measured.
The nature of the machinery, valve and other contracts into which the Group enters means that: the contracts usually contain discrete elements, each of which transfers risks and rewards to the customer.
Where such s discrete elements are present, revenue is recognised on each element in accordance with the policy on the sale of goods.
the service element of the contract is usually insignicant in relation to the total contract value and is often provided s on a short-term or one-off basis.
Where this is the case, revenue is recognised when the service is complete.
As a result of the above, the significant majority of the Groups revenue is recognised on a sale of goods basis.
The specic methods used to recognise the different forms of revenue earned by the Group are set out below: i Sale of goods Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement net of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer and reliable measurement is possible.
No revenue is recognised where recovery of the consideration is not probable or there are significant uncertainties regarding associated costs, or the possible return of goods.
Transfers of risks and rewards vary depending on the nature of the products sold and the individual terms of the contract of sale.
Sales made under internationally accepted trade terms, Incoterms 2010, are recognised as revenue when the Group has completed the primary duties required to transfer risks as dened by the International Chamber of Commerce Ofcial Rules for the Interpretation of Trade Terms.
Sales made outside Incoterms 2010 are generally recognised on delivery to the customer.
ii Rendering of services As noted above, because revenue from the rendering of services is usually insignicant in relation to the total contract value and is generally provided on a short-term or one-off basis, revenue is usually recognised when the service is complete.
Where this is not the case, revenue from services rendered is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the service at the balance sheet date.
The stage of completion is assessed by reference to the contractual agreement with each separate customer and the costs incurred on the contract to date in comparison to the total forecast costs of the contract.
Revenue recognition commences only when the outcome of the contract can be reliably measured.
Installation fees are similarly recognised by reference to the stage of completion on the installation unless they are incidental to the sale of the goods, in which case they are recognised when the goods are sold.
When a transaction combines a supply of goods with the provision of a significant service, revenue from the provision of the service is recognised separately from the revenue from the sale of goods by reference to the stage of completion of the service unless the service is essential to the functionality of the goods supplied, in which case the whole transaction is treated as a construction contract.
Revenue from a service that is incidental to the supply of goods is recognised at the same time as the revenue from the supply of goods.
Financial statements 82 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS iii Construction contracts As noted above, customer contracts usually contain discrete elements separately transferring risks and rewards to the customer.
Where such discrete elements are present, revenue is recognised on each element in accordance with the policy on the sale of goods.
Where such discrete elements are not in place, revenue from significant contracts is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract by reference to the specic contract terms and the costs incurred on the contract to date in comparison to the total forecast costs of the contract.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included in revenue from construction contracts when certain criteria are met.
Variations are included when the customer has agreed to the variation or acknowledged liability for the variation in principle.
Claims are included when negotiations with the customer have reached an advanced stage such that the customer is certain to accept the claim.
Incentive payments are included when a contract is sufciently advanced that it is probable that the performance standards triggering the incentive will be achieved.
profit attributable to contract activity is recognised if the final outcome of such contracts can be reliably assessed.
On all contracts, full provision is made for any losses in the year in which they are first foreseen.
f Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately where the quantum, the one-off nature or volatility of these items would otherwise distort the underlying trading performance.
The following items of income and expense are considered to be exceptional in these financial statements: Restructuring costs, which comprise significant costs associated with the closure of activities or factories and the cost s of significant reductions in workforce due to excess capacity or the reorganisation of facilities: Acquisition-related costs, which comprise: s Contingent consideration payments which because they might be forfeited in some of the instances in which the s vendors post-acquisition employment contracts may be terminated are required by IFRS3 Revised to be treated as remuneration: Transaction costs on successful acquisitions: s Special pension events, which comprise the past service credits relating to the UK Scheme arising from the pension s increase exchange exercise and two Swiss Schemes and the exit of a state-sponsored scheme in Japan: The amortisation of acquired intangible xed assets: and s Gains and losses including fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments.
s The tax impact of the above items is also shown within Exceptional items.
g Financial income and expense Financial income comprises interest receivable on funds invested, income from investments and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset.
Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date that the dividend is declared.
Financial expense comprises interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, the interest related element of derivatives and losses on financial instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
The interest expense component of finance lease payments is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
Net finance income or expense relating to dened benefit pension schemes represents the difference between the assumed interest on employee benefit plan liabilities and the assumed returns on employee benefit plan assets.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they occur.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 83 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. significant accounting policies continued h Income tax Current tax payable receivable represents the expected tax payable receivable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that the timing of the reversal of the differences can be controlled and it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on the tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
i Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Where applicable, on initial classication as held for sale, non-current disposal groups are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on the initial classication of assets as held for sale are included in profit or loss, even for assets measured at fair value, as are impairment losses on subsequent remeasurement and any reversal thereof.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business that has been disposed of, is held for sale or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to re-sale.
j Foreign currencies i Foreign currency transactions Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translating transactions at the exchange rate ruling on the transaction date are reected in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
ii Foreign operations The income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the appropriate average rate of exchange for the year and the adjustment to year-end rates is taken directly to reserves.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly as a separate component of equity.
Since 1 January 2004, the Groups date of transition to IFRSs, such differences have been recognised in the translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss.
k Financial instruments and fair value hedging Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs unless the instrument is a derivative not designated as a hedge see below.
Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the instrument, which follows the categories in IAS39: Fixed deposits, comprising principally funds held with banks and other financial institutions are classied as available s for sale assets under IAS39, and held at fair value.
Short-term borrowings and overdrafts are classied as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Financial statements 84 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Derivatives, comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and options, metals futures contracts and any s embedded derivatives, are classied as fair value through profit or loss under IAS39, unless designated as hedges.
Derivatives not designated as hedges are initially recognised at fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, changes in fair value of such derivatives and gains or losses on their settlement are recognised in net financial income or expense.
Long-term loans and other interest-bearing borrowings are generally held at amortised cost using the effective interest s rate method.
Where the long-term loan is hedged, generally by an interest rate swap, and the hedge is regarded as effective, the carrying value of the long-term loan is adjusted for changes in fair value of the hedge.
Trade receivables are stated at cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
s Trade payables are stated at cost.
s Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet only when the Group becomes a party to the s contractual provisions of the instrument.
Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value with gains and losses being recognised in equity, except for s impairment losses which are recognised in the income statement.
l Other hedging i Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities, financial commitments or forecast transactions Where a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the foreign exchange or metals commodity price exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, or financial commitment or a forecast transaction, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss resulting from changes in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in net financial income or expense.
For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic hedges that are not designated hedges, which relate to current year trading, together with the gains and losses on their settlement, are allocated to the segmental revenues and operating profit of the relevant business segment.
ii Hedge of net investment in foreign operation Where a foreign currency liability or derivative financial instrument is a formally designated hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the foreign currency liability or changes in the fair value of the financial instrument are recognised directly in equity to the extent the hedge is effective.
The Company assesses the effectiveness of its net investment hedges based on fair value changes of its net assets, including relevant goodwill designated as foreign currency assets, and the fair value changes of both the debt designated as a hedge and the relevant financial instrument.
m Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identiable net assets is determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition-related costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses unless their quantum, nature or volatility meets the denition of an Exceptional item as set out in accounting policy f above.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classication and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in contracts held by the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingency consideration which is deemed to be a liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS39 either in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classied as equity, it is not remeasured until it is nally settled within equity.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 85 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. significant accounting policies continued m Business combinations and goodwill continued Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net identiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identiable intangible assets are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be reliably measured.
If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
n Intangible assets Intangible assets are further sub-divided in the notes to these accounts between acquired intangible assets and non-acquired intangible assets.
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets is treated as an exceptional item as described in section f of these accounting policies, because of its inherent volatility.
The accounting policy for goodwill is described in section m above.
i Research and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised provided benets are probable, cost can be reliably measured and if, and only if, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources and intention to complete development.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and directly attributable overheads.
Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy Impairment and is included in the other acquired or other non-acquired category of intangible assets depending on its origin.
ii Software development costs Software applications and systems that are not an integral part of their host computer equipment are capitalised on initial recognition as intangible assets at cost.
Cost comprises the purchase price plus external costs incurred on development of the asset to bring it into use.
Following initial recognition, software development costs are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation see below and accumulated impairment losses see accounting policy Impairment and are included in the other acquired or other non-acquired category of intangible assets depending on their origin.
Financial statements 86 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS iii Customer relationships and other acquired intangible assets Customer relationships and other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group as part of a business combination are stated at their fair value calculated by reference to the net present value of future benets accruing to the Group from utilisation of the asset, discounted at an appropriate discount rate.
Expenditure on other internally generated intangible assets is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
iv Amortisation of intangible assets other than goodwill Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis other than for customer relationships and order book, which are charged on a sum of digits basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets.
Amortisation commences from the date the intangible asset becomes available for use.
The estimated maximum useful lives are as follows: Capitalised development costs Life of the intangible asset usually a maximum of 10 years s Software development costs Life of the intangible asset up to 10 years s Customer relationships Life of the intangible asset up to 10 years s Other intangible assets Life of the intangible asset up to 10 years s o Property, plant and equipment Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated.
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy Impairment.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Costs in respect of tooling owned by the Group for clearly identiable new products are capitalised net of any contribution received from customers and are included in plant and equipment.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis unless such a basis is not aligned with the anticipated benefit so as to write down the cost of assets to residual values over the period of their estimated useful lives within the following ranges: Freehold buildings 25 to 50 years s Plant and equipment 3 to 20 years s p Leased assets Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as finance leases.
Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation see above and impairment losses see accounting policy Impairment.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement over the period of the lease unless a different systematic method is more appropriate under the terms of the lease.
The majority of leasing transactions entered into by the Group are operating leases.
q Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Because of the varying nature of the Groups operations, both first in, first out FIFO and weighted average methodologies are employed.
In respect of work in progress and nished goods, cost includes all direct costs of production and the appropriate proportion of production overheads.
r Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash ows.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 87 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. significant accounting policies continued s Impairment The carrying values of the Groups non-financial assets other than inventories see accounting policy Inventories and deferred tax assets see accounting policy Income tax, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or all assets within its cash-generating unit is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
For goodwill and assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is evaluated at each balance sheet date.
i Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of the Groups receivables other than financial assets held at fair value is calculated as the present value of expected future cash ows, discounted at the original effective interest rate inherent in the asset.
Receivables with a short duration of less than one year are not discounted.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use an individual assessment is made of the estimated future cash ows generated for each cash-generating unit based upon the latest Group three year plan and extrapolated using an appropriate long-term growth rate for each cash generating unit in perpetuity consistent with an estimate of the relevant geographic long-term GDP growth.
These are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset.
Management believe that this approach, including the use of the indefinite cash ow projection, is appropriate based upon both historical experience and because it is one of the bases management utilise to evaluate the fair value of investment opportunities.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inows, the recoverable amount is determined for the smallest cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
ii Reversals of impairment As required by IAS36: Impairment of Assets, any impairment of goodwill or available for sale financial assets is nonreversible.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if at the balance sheet date there are indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists following a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
t Dividends Final dividends payable are recognised as a liability at the date at which they are approved by the Companys shareholders or by the subsidiarys shareholders in respect of dividends to non-controlling interests.
Interim dividends payable are recognised on the date they are declared.
u Employee benets i Dened contribution pension plans Contributions to dened contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
ii Dened benefit pension plans The Groups net obligation in respect of dened benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and any unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating those of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualied actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in a net asset to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the net total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan and restricted by any relevant asset ceiling.
When the benets of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benets become vested.
To the extent that the benets vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in equity and disclosed in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Financial statements 88 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS iii Long-term service and other post-employment benets The Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service and other post-employment benets, other than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high quality bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating those of the Groups obligations.
iv Equity and equity-related compensation benets The Group operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation benets as set out in note 20.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense each year.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
The fair value of the options is determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
v Provisions Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are valued at managements best estimate of the amount required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly.
Segmental information Segmental information is presented in the consolidated financial statements for each of the Groups operating segments.
The operating segment reporting format reects the Groups management and internal reporting structures and represents the information that is presented to the chief operating decision-maker, being the Executive Committee.
The Group comprises the following five operating segments and activities: Fluid Controls Severe Service Design, manufacture, supply and service of high performance critical control valves and associated equipment for power generation plants, oil & gas producers, petrochemical, iron & steel plants and other process industries.
Fluid Power Design, manufacture and supply of motion and uid control systems, principally pneumatic devices, for original equipment manufacturers in commercial vehicle, life science, rail, energy, food and beverage and other industries.
Indoor Climate Design, manufacture and supply of indoor climate control systems, principally balancing valves and, in 2013, control valves for large commercial buildings, thermostatic radiator valves for residential buildings and water conditioning equipment.
Retail Dispense Beverage Dispense Design, manufacture and supply of still and carbonated beverage dispense systems and associated merchandising equipment for brand owners and retailers.
Merchandising Design, manufacture and supply of point of purchase display systems for brand owners and retailers.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 89 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Segmental information continued As part of the convergence process, since the year end we have concluded that the majority of the Merchandising segment should be divested, and we are exploring options accordingly.
The part of the Merchandising segment serving the beverage market, contained within our Display Technologies subsidiary, presents a number of synergies with the Beverage segment, including a shared customer base and significant potential to develop a more compelling and high impact interface between the consumer and our beverage dispense equipment.
Accordingly, this beverage activity has been transferred to the Beverage Dispense segment with effect from the start of this year.
In 2012, Display Technologies had revenues in these product areas of 36m and segmental operating profit of 8.5m.
Information regarding the operations of each reporting segment is included below on the current basis of segmentation.
Additional information is presented at the end of this note indicating the effect of the transfer of Display Technologies to the Beverage Dispense segment in 2013.
Performance is measured based on segmental operating profit which is the profit reported by the business, stated before exceptional items including the reversal of economic hedge contract gains and losses, the net credit on special pension events, restructuring costs, acquired intangible amortisation and other acquisitionrelated costs.
Businesses enter into forward currency and metal contracts to provide economic hedges against the impact on profitability of swings in rates and values in accordance with the Groups policy to minimise the risk of volatility in revenues, costs and margins.
Segmental operating profits are therefore charged credited with the impact of these contracts.
In accordance with IAS39, these contracts do not meet the technical provisions required for hedge accounting and gains and losses are reversed out of segmental profit and are recorded in net financial income and expense for the purposes of the consolidated income statement.
Segmental Segmental revenue operating profit 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Fluid Controls 1,696 1,649 300.1 307.6 Severe Service 686 572 96.3 88.9 Fluid Power 717 767 142.3 150.5 Indoor Climate 293 310 61.5 68.2 Retail Dispense 496 486 72.9 66.5 Beverage Dispense 313 317 45.0 41.1 Merchandising 183 169 27.9 25.4 Total 2,192 2,135 373.0 374.1 Reconciliation of reported segmental revenue and operating profit Revenue profit 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Segmental result 2,192 2,135 373.0 374.1 Reversal of net economic hedge contract gains 2 4 6.8 4.1 Net credit on special pension events 10.9 - Restructuring costs 23.3 23.5 Acquired intangible amortisation 29.6 32.3 Other acquisition-related costs 6.3 - Total revenue operating profit reported 2,190 2,131 317.9 314.2 Net financial expense 0.9 12.8 profit before tax 317.0 301.4 Financial statements 90 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance sheet Segmental Segmental assets liabilities 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Fluid Controls 1,243.0 1,183.4 337.2 377.9 Severe Service 675.6 595.5 184.7 201.6 Fluid Power 409.0 436.0 94.4 114.9 Indoor Climate 158.4 151.9 58.1 61.4 Retail Dispense 264.4 283.4 75.6 91.4 Beverage Dispense 125.7 137.3 44.8 58.6 Merchandising 138.7 146.1 30.8 32.8 Total 1,507.4 1,466.8 412.8 469.3 Reconciliation of segmental assets and liabilities to Group balance sheet Assets Liabilities 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Segmental assets and liabilities 1,507.4 1,466.8 412.8 469.3 Corporate items 5.1 8.0 72.9 87.6 Employee benets - 1.9 232.2 205.7 Investments 20.4 20.4 - - Net borrowings 102.8 147.9 246.6 256.1 Net taxation and others 88.7 87.8 76.4 99.9 Per Group balance sheet 1,724.4 1,732.8 1,040.9 1,118.6 Other information Restructuring Capital Depreciation costs expenditure & amortisation 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m m m Fluid Controls 18.9 21.4 38.9 50.7 67.4 70.7 Severe Service 13.8 11.9 12.8 11.4 37.4 39.2 Fluid Power 1.6 5.5 16.4 26.2 22.3 23.3 Indoor Climate 3.5 4.0 9.7 13.1 7.7 8.2 Retail Dispense 4.4 2.1 6.8 8.0 7.5 8.8 Beverage Dispense 1.4 2.1 4.1 5.3 5.1 6.3 Merchandising 3.0 - 2.7 2.7 2.4 2.5 Subtotal 23.3 23.5 45.7 58.7 74.9 79.5 Corporate - - 1.2 0.2 0.4 0.5 Total 23.3 23.5 46.9 58.9 75.3 80.0 Included for Severe Service is 26.1m 2011: 28.9m amortisation of acquired intangibles Included for Fluid Power is 3.1m 2011: 3.1m amortisation of acquired intangibles Included for Indoor Climate is 0.4m 2011: 0.3m amortisation of acquired intangibles IMI plc Annual Report 2012 91 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Segmental information continued Revenue by geographical destination 2012 2011 m m UK 143 136 Germany 282 296 Rest of Europe 551 577 USA 589 580 Asia Pacic 398 319 Rest of World 229 227 Total segmental revenue 2,192 2,135 Reversal of economic hedge contract gains 2 4 Total 2,190 2,131 No individual customer, or group of customers under common control, represents more than 10% of Group revenue in either this year or last.
Geographical analysis of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 2012 2011 m m UK 101.1 103.7 Germany 159.5 165.1 Rest of Europe 254.6 187.2 USA 208.7 232.1 Asia Pacic 40.1 46.6 Rest of World 25.8 11.7 Total 789.8 746.4 Proforma disclosure following the segmental reorganisation on 1 January 2013 2012 As reported Post reorganisation Beverage Beverage Dispense Merchandising Dispense Merchandising m m m m Segmental revenue 313 183 349 147 Segmental operating profit 45.0 27.9 53.5 19.4 Segmental assets 125.7 138.7 164.8 99.6 Segmental liabilities 44.8 30.8 47.4 28.2 Restructuring costs 1.4 3.0 1.7 2.7 Capital expenditure 4.1 2.7 4.7 2.1 Depreciation and amortisation 5.1 2.4 6.0 1.5 This note demonstrates the segmental disclosures that would have been reported had the segmental reorganisation of the business, which resulted in the beverage activities of the Display Technology business moving to the Beverage Dispense segment from the Merchandising segment, taken place on 1 January 2012 rather than in early 2013.
Financial statements 92 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
Acquisitions 3.1 Acquisitions in the period Remosa On 16 February 2012, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Remosa SpA and related companies collectively Remosa, a leading engineering business specialising in the manufacture and service of valves and related ow control products for severe applications in the downstream Petrochemical sector, for an enterprise value of 83.1m 100m, being cash consideration of 68.4m and net debt assumed of 14.7m.
Remosa joined IMIs Severe Service division and is highly complementary with Zimmermann & Jansen, which IMI acquired at the end of 2010, strengthening the Groups presence in the downstream Petrochemical market.
The use of IMIs global sales and aftermarket infrastructure is expected to improve Remosas geographic penetration, notably in North America, and develop its aftermarket offering.
Remosa already has a strong presence in emerging markets, including South America and Asia, with over 50% of sales coming from those markets.
Segmental revenue of 32m and segmental operating profit of 5.4m for the period since acquisition has been reported for Remosa within the Severe Service segment.
InterAtiva On 17 February 2012, the Group acquired the entire share capital of the InterAtiva Group InterAtiva, a Brazilian isolation valve business, from its founding partners.
Founded in 1992 by Wilson Gabriel and Mauro Bilbao, InterAtiva was privately owned and designs, assembles and distributes isolation valves to various end-markets including oil and gas, sugar and ethanol production, and water treatment.
All of the 2011 sales were in the fast-growing South American markets.
InterAtiva joined IMIs Severe Service division and actively engages with major engineering, procurement and construction rms and also with the major oil and gas companies in Brazil.
With an experienced management team, and capacity for final assembly, it represents a strong platform for IMIs existing Severe Service isolation valve brands, including Orton and Truo Rona, to enter this market.
Initial cash consideration of 22.0m was paid and further consideration up to BR$55.5m 16.7m at 31 December 2012 rates may be paid on a deferred basis dependent upon the achievement of targets for earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation for the three years ending 31 December 2014.
Because these contingent payments might be forfeited in some of the instances in which the vendors post-acquisition employment contracts may be terminated, in accordance with IFRS3 Revised, the whole of the amount accrued to date for their payment has been expensed to the income statement.
In order to provide a clearer understanding of the underlying performance of the business, these costs, which amount to 4.0m in the period to 31 December 2012, are separately disclosed within other acquisition-related costs in the income statement, together with the 2.3m transaction costs discussed below.
Segmental revenue of 11m and segmental operating profit of 2.4m for the period since acquisition has been reported for InterAtiva within the Severe Service segment.
Disclosures for both Remosa and InterAtiva Assuming that the acquisitions of Remosa and InterAtiva had both been completed on 1 January 2012, it is estimated that the Group segmental revenue and segmental operating profit would have been 2,198m and 374m respectively.
The methodologies for arriving at the fair values of assets acquired, intangible asset values and residual goodwill are described in note 1 m. The aggregate goodwill of 50.8m recognised on the two acquisitions principally relates to skills present within the assembled workforce, customer service capability and the synergies available to the combined business from its geographical and sector presence.
The fair value adjustments consist of the harmonisation with Group IFRS compliant accounting policies, the recognition of intangible assets non-contractual customer relationships, order book and patents and adjustments to move the carrying value of the identiable net assets from cost to fair value.
Transaction costs of 2.3m have been expensed in administrative expenses in 2012 and are included as exceptional charges within other acquisition-related costs together with the remuneration payment of 4.0m discussed above in accordance with the policy disclosed in note 1 f. A further 1.3m and 0.4m was included in administrative costs in the prior year for Remosa and InterAtiva respectively, but this amount was not included in exceptional costs in the 2011 annual report, because at 31 December 2011, the successful outcome of the acquisitions had not been determined.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 93 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
Acquisitions continued 3.1 Acquisitions in the period continued The provisional fair values of the assets and liabilities reported as at 30 June 2012 were subsequently nalised to reect a lower valuation of the customer relationships and associated deferred taxation attributable to the Remosa acquisition.
The final fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are summarised below: Remosa InterAtiva Total m m m Customer relationships 28.6 9.7 38.3 Order book 3.3 0.7 4.0 Patents and licences 0.2 - 0.2 Property, plant and equipment 10.8 0.9 11.7 Inventories 11.3 5.1 16.4 Trade and other receivables 11.8 2.2 14.0 Cash and short-term deposits 6.1 - 6.1 Bank overdraft - 0.1 0.1 Interest-bearing liabilities 20.8 - 20.8 Trade and other payables 11.6 2.5 14.1 Taxation balances 12.4 2.7 15.1 Retirement benefit obligations 1.3 - 1.3 Other assets 0.3 - 0.3 Total identiable net assets 26.3 13.3 39.6 Goodwill arising on acquisition 42.1 8.7 50.8 Total purchase consideration 68.4 22.0 90.4 Cash ows from the acquisition of controlling interests are shown below: THJ Remosa InterAtiva Total m m m m Cash consideration - 68.4 22.0 90.4 Cash overdraft acquired - 6.1 0.1 6.0 Net cash paid on 2012 acquisitions - 62.3 22.1 84.4 Finalisation of consideration on acquisition of THJ 1.3 - - 1.3 Acquisition of controlling interests in the cash ow statement 1.3 62.3 22.1 83.1 Transaction costs included in cash ows from operating activities - 1.0 1.3 2.3 Total cash ow on acquisition of controlling interests 1.3 63.3 23.4 85.4 The goodwill arising on the Remosa acquisition is not tax deductible.
The goodwill arising on the InterAtiva acquisition, in addition to the contingent consideration amounts payable to the vendors described earlier in this note, may be tax deductible in the future.
Remosa trade and other receivables of 11.8m are stated net of a provision for bad debts of 0.3m.
InterAtiva trade and other receivables of 2.2m are stated net of a provision for bad debts of 0.7m.
The net amounts are all expected to be collected within 12 months.
3.2 Acquisitions in the previous period On 17 October 2011 the Group acquired THJ for a total purchase consideration of 9.0m, net of a 2.2m receivable from the vendor for amounts to be nalised in the completion accounts.
Total identiable net assets were 7.7m, resulting in goodwill of 1.3m.
These amounts were deemed provisional at 31 December 2011.
During the first half of 2012, these provisional amounts were nalised, resulting in a 0.9m reduction in the receivable due from the vendor, a final cash inow of 1.3m and an increase to goodwill of 0.9m.
The 2011 balance sheet has been restated accordingly.
Financial statements 94 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
Operating profit 2012 2011 m m Segmental revenue 2,192.0 2,135.0 Cost of sales 1,253.6 1,219.6 Segmental gross profit 938.4 915.4 Selling and distribution costs 257.0 244.4 Administrative expenses 308.4 296.9 Operating profit pre-exceptionals 373.0 374.1 Exceptionals 55.1 59.9 Operating profit 317.9 314.2 Includes 23.3m of restructuring costs 2011: 23.5m, 29.6m of acquired intangible amortisation 2011: 32.3m, reversal of economic hedge contracts gains of 6.8m 2011: 4.1m gain, 10.9m net credit on special pension events 2011: nil and 6.3m of other acquisition-related costs 2011: nil.
Net financial income and expense 2012 2011 Financial Financial Interest Instruments Total Interest Instruments Total Recognised in the income statement m m m m m m Interest income on bank deposits 3.7 3.7 3.3 3.3 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: Designated hedges 1.0 1.0 0.7 0.7 Other economic hedges - current year trading 10.2 10.2 8.1 8.1 - future year transactions 2.7 2.7 5.1 5.1 Financial income 3.7 13.9 17.6 3.3 13.9 17.2 Interest expense on interest-bearing loans and borrowings 21.4 21.4 20.4 20.4 Interest cost capitalised - - 0.2 0.2 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: Designated hedges 1.0 1.0 0.8 0.8 Other economic hedges - current year trading 4.5 4.5 9.0 9.0 - future year transactions 2.6 2.6 6.2 6.2 Financial expense 21.4 8.1 29.5 20.2 16.0 36.2 Net finance income relating to dened benefit pension schemes 11.0 11.0 6.2 6.2 Net financial expense income 6.7 5.8 0.9 10.7 2.1 12.8 Included in financial instruments are current year trading gains and losses on economically effective transactions which for management reporting purposes are included in segmental operating profit see note 2.
For statutory purposes these are required to be shown within net financial income and expense above.
Gains or losses for future year transactions are in respect of financial instruments held by the Group to provide stability of future trading cash ows.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 95 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.
Net financial income and expense continued Recognised in other comprehensive income Restated 2012 2011 m m Foreign currency translation differences 14.1 9.7 Change in fair value of other financial assets 0.2 1.2 Change in fair value of effective portion of net investment hedges 1.3 1.9 Income tax on items recognised directly in equity 0.5 0.9 Financial expense recognised directly in equity net of tax 13.1 7.5 Recognised in: Hedging reserve 1.0 1.4 Translation reserve 14.2 10.0 Retained earnings 0.1 0.7 Non-controlling interests - 0.4 13.1 7.5 6.
The following have been charged credited in arriving at profit before tax 2012 2011 m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 41.3 43.6 Amortisation of acquired intangible xed assets 29.6 32.3 Amortisation of non-acquired intangible xed assets 4.4 4.1 Research and development 39.2 38.8 Impairment reversal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 0.7 2.5 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 2.8 2.7 Tax compliance services 0.2 0.1 Other assurance services 0.3 0.2 Rentals under operating leases: Property rents 21.2 21.4 Hire of plant and machinery 6.1 9.1 Exchange gains on operating activities net of hedging arrangements 2.1 1.3 In addition to the research and development costs above, 5.2m 2011: 4.4m has been capitalised in respect of development costs and is included in other non-acquired intangible assets in note 12.
Taxation 7.1 Governance and strategy IMI seeks to effectively manage its taxation obligations worldwide and in compliance with all applicable tax laws and regulations.
The Group monitors the tax contribution by the individual businesses to take into account available global tax incentives and allowances, whilst ensuring that any material commercial tax risks are promptly addressed.
This approach has been approved by the Board, fully communicated to subsidiary businesses and is regularly reviewed and reported to ensure responsible tax practices across the group are maintained.
IMI aims to build positive working relationships with tax authorities around the world by fully co-operating in an open, constructive and timely manner, in accordance with The IMI Way.
It is recognised that there will be areas of differing legal Financial statements 96 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS interpretation with tax authorities and where this occurs IMI will engage in proactive discussion to obtain early resolution and remove uncertainty and controversy.
IMI operates through many subsidiary companies worldwide that pay many types of taxes such as corporate income taxes, VAT, payroll taxes, import and excise duties.
The profits earned by the subsidiary companies, after certain tax adjustments prescribed by local tax legislation, are subject to local corporate income tax rates.
The Group tax provision shown in the consolidated accounts and explained in this taxation note is an aggregation of these resulting corporate income tax charges together with relevant accounting adjustments.
7.2 Recognised in the income statement: 2012 2011 m m Current tax charge credit Current year charge 73.8 86.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.5 1.1 74.3 85.2 Deferred taxation note 7.5 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 9.0 12.5 Total income tax expense 83.3 97.7 7.3 Reconciliation of effective tax rate The following tax reconciliation applies the Companys domestic rate of tax, which is equivalent to the UK corporation tax rate for the year as explained in note 7.7, to profit before tax, both before and after exceptional items.
This resulting tax charge is reconciled to the actual tax charge for the Group, by taking account of specic tax adjustments as follows: 2012 2011 Before Exceptional Before Exceptional Exceptionals Items Total Exceptionals Items Total m m m m m m profit before tax 366.3 49.3 317.0 363.4 62.0 301.4 Income tax using the Companys domestic rate of tax of 24.5% 2011: 26.5% 89.7 12.1 77.6 96.3 16.4 79.9 Effects of: Non-deductible items 1.7 0.5 2.2 1.3 1.2 2.5 Exceptional tax charge on restructuring - - - - 11.0 11.0 Utilisation of tax losses 2.8 - 2.8 1.0 - 1.0 Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised 1.4 - 1.4 0.4 - 0.4 Differing tax rates in overseas jurisdictions 2.5 0.3 2.2 6.1 0.1 6.2 Under overprovided in prior years 2.7 - 2.7 1.3 - 1.3 Total tax in income statement note 7.2 95.2 11.9 83.3 101.8 4.1 97.7 Effective rate of tax: 26.0% 24.1% 26.3% 28.0% 6.6% 32.4% During the year, the Group made payments of current income tax of 102.9m 2011: 90.9m, mainly arising in Germany, the USA and Italy.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 97 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7.
Taxation continued 7.4 Recognised outside of the income statement 2012 2011 m m Deferred tax: On equity-settled transactions 1.8 0.9 On change in value of effective net investment hedge derivatives 0.3 0.5 On available for sale financial assets 0.1 0.5 On actuarial losses 11.6 16.2 On foreign currency translation differences 0.1 0.1 12.9 14.4 Current tax: On equity-settled transactions 4.1 2.5 17.0 16.9 Of which the following amounts are credited: to the statement of comprehensive income 11.1 15.3 to the statement of changes in equity 5.9 1.6 17.0 16.9 7.5 Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred taxes record the tax consequences of temporary differences between the accounting and taxation recognition of certain items, as explained below: Assets Liabilities Net 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m m m Non-current assets 3.9 2.7 59.3 53.2 55.4 50.5 Inventories 5.3 8.3 6.1 5.6 0.8 2.7 On foreign exchange and revaluation of derivatives 0.8 0.9 0.6 1.2 0.2 0.3 Employee benets and provisions 84.8 83.1 4.3 4.7 80.5 78.4 Other tax assets 4.4 5.8 - - 4.4 5.8 99.2 100.8 70.3 64.7 28.9 36.1 Set off of tax 33.6 25.1 33.6 25.1 - - Total deferred tax assets and liabilities balance sheet 65.6 75.7 36.7 39.6 28.9 36.1 Financial statements 98 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movement in deferred taxes during the year: Restated Recognised Note 1 in the Recognised Balance at income directly in Acquisitions Balance at 1 Jan 12 statement equity Exchange disposals 31 Dec 12 m m m m m m Non-current assets 50.5 6.1 - 3.1 14.1 55.4 Inventories 2.7 3.7 - 0.1 0.1 0.8 On foreign exchange and revaluation of derivatives 0.3 0.9 0.4 - - 0.2 Employee benets and provisions 78.4 10.7 13.3 1.1 0.6 80.5 Other tax assets 5.8 1.6 - 0.1 0.3 4.4 Net deferred tax asset 36.1 9.0 12.9 2.0 13.1 28.9 Recognised in the Recognised Balance at income directly in Acquisitions Balance at 1 Jan 11 statement equity Exchange disposals 31 Dec 11 m m m m m m Non-current assets 53.8 4.8 - 0.8 2.3 50.5 Inventories 1.0 1.8 - 0.1 - 2.7 On foreign exchange and revaluation of derivatives 1.6 1.8 0.4 0.1 - 0.3 Employee benets and provisions 87.3 23.8 14.8 0.1 - 78.4 Other tax assets 2.9 2.9 - 0.1 0.1 5.8 Net deferred tax asset 35.8 12.5 14.4 0.6 2.2 36.1 All exchange movements are taken through the translation reserve.
7.6 Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets of 27.1m 2011: 25.4m have not been recognised in respect of tax losses of 120.4m 2011: 99.4m.
The majority of the tax losses have no expiry date, but have not been recognised as deferred tax assets due to uncertainty over their recoverability.
It is likely that the majority of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries would qualify for the UK dividend exemption.
However 75.4m 2011: 59.9m of those earnings may still result in a tax liability principally as a result of withholding taxes levied by the overseas jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate.
These tax liabilities are not expected to exceed 7.9m 2011: 5.7m, of which only 1.5m 2011: 1.5m has been provided as the group is able to control the timing of the dividends.
It is not expected that further amounts will crystallise in the foreseeable future.
7.7 UK corporation tax As IMIs head ofce and parent company is domiciled in the UK, the Group references its effective tax rate to the UK corporation tax rate, despite only a small proportion of the Groups business being now based in the UK.
In recent years the Group has made substantial payments to its UK retirement benefit plans, which had the effect of reducing the Groups UK corporation tax liability.
In the current year, the UK tax charge was 11.9m 2011: 1.6m credit.
The Finance Act 2012 enacted reductions in the UK corporation tax rates from 25% to 24% from 1 April 2012 and to 23% from 1 April 2013.
An additional change to the main rate of UK corporation tax is proposed, to reduce the rate to 21% by 1 April 2014.
This change had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and consequently its effects are not included in these financial statements.
Accordingly, the average weighted rate of corporation tax in the UK for the 2012 calendar year was 24.5% 2011: 26.5%.
UK deferred tax assets and liabilities have been calculated using a tax rate of 23% 2011: 25%.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 99 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8.
Earnings per ordinary share The weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, net of shares held as treasury shares or held in trust to satisfy employee share schemes, was 317.8m, 322.1m diluted for the effect of outstanding share options 2011: 317.0m, 322.5m diluted.
Basic and diluted earnings per share have been calculated on earnings of 230.6m 2011: 200.4m.
The directors consider that the adjusted earnings per share measure, which uses adjusted earnings as calculated below, gives a more meaningful indication of the underlying performance because the quantum, one-off nature, or volatility of the items adjusted would otherwise distort it.
2012 2011 m m profit for the year from continuing operations 233.7 203.7 Non-controlling interests 3.1 3.3 230.6 200.4 Charges credits included in profit for the year: Financial instruments excluding economic hedge contract gains and losses 1.0 6.2 Net credit on special pension events 10.9 - Restructuring costs 23.3 23.5 Acquired intangible amortisation 29.6 32.3 Other acquisition-related costs 6.3 - 279.9 262.4 Taxation credit on exceptional items 11.9 4.1 Earnings for adjusted EPS 268.0 258.3 Weighted average number of shares million 317.8 317.0 Fully diluted average number of shares million 322.1 322.5 Adjusted EPS 84.3p 81.5p Diluted adjusted EPS 83.2p 80.1p Basic EPS 72.6p 63.2p Diluted basic EPS 71.6p 62.1p 9.
Exceptional items As explained in note 1 f to these financial statements, items are disclosed separately on the face of the income statement and added back in arriving at adjusted earnings when their quantum, one-off nature or volatility would otherwise distort the Groups underlying trading performance.
The financial effect of the items added back to adjusted earnings is disclosed in the earnings per share note above and their general nature is explained in note 1 f. The following items are considered to be exceptional in these financial statements.
For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic hedges which are not designated hedges for accounting purposes, together with the gains and losses on their settlements, are included in the segmental revenues and operating profit of the relevant business segment.
The operating exceptional item reverses the effect of this treatment.
The nancing exceptional items reect the change in value or settlement of these contracts with the financial institutions with whom they were transacted.
The net credit on special pension events comprises: A 9.0m past service credit arising on a pension increase exchange exercise relating to the UK pension scheme.
s A 3.2m past service credit in two of our Swiss schemes, resulting from a change in the plans rules during the year.
s A 1.3m cost arising in Japan relating to the exit of a state-sponsored scheme during the year.
s The restructuring costs arising in the year principally relate to ongoing costs associated with the move to lower cost manufacturing sites in our Severe Service business in addition to the closure of one of our Merchandising sites.
An analysis of these costs by segment is included in note 2 as is the analysis by segment of acquired intangible amortisation.
Other acquisition-related costs comprise the following: The accrual of 4.0m additional consideration payable to the vendors of InterAtiva, discussed in note 3. s Acquisition costs of 2.3m relating to Remosa and InterAtiva, which completed during 2012. s Financial statements 100 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10.
Non-controlling interests Shanghai CCI SLP Total m m m Non-controlling interests at 1 January 2012 2.6 46.8 49.4 profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interests 0.1 3.0 3.1 Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 0.1 - 0.1 Income earned by partnership - 4.4 4.4 2012 movement in non-controlling interest - 1.4 1.4 Non-controlling interests at 31 December 2012 2.6 45.4 48.0 The non-controlling interest denoted Shanghai CCI in the above table represents the 30% ownership interest in the ordinary shares of Shanghai CCI Power Control Equipment Co Limited held by Shanghai Power Station Auxiliary Equipment Works Co Limited.
The non-controlling interest denoted SLP relates to an interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership, presently owned by the IMI Pension Fund the Fund, which provides the Fund with a conditional entitlement to receive income of 4.4m per annum unless the Group has not paid a dividend in the prior year or the Fund is fully funded.
Further details regarding this non-controlling interest are disclosed in note 1 d and note 19.
Employee information The average number of people employed by the Group during the year was: 2012 2011 Fluid Controls 11,551 11,251 Retail Dispense 2,861 2,970 Corporate 180 182 Total 14,592 14,403 The aggregate employment cost charged to operating profit for the year was: m m Wages and salaries 507.0 498.8 Share-based payments see note 20 10.1 8.9 Social security costs 85.5 83.1 Pension costs 14.0 12.8 Total 616.6 603.6 Wages and salaries include a 4.0m accrual for contingent consideration payments to the vendors of InterAtiva, as described in note 3.
In 2012, pension costs above include the 3.2m exceptional credit in respect of the changes to the Swiss plans and the 1.3m exceptional charge in respect of the exit of the Japanese state-sponsored arrangement but exclude the 9.0m credit on the UK pension increase exchange exercise, because this latter payment is in respect of former rather than current employees.
In 2011, pension costs above exclude 9.6m including 1.2m National Insurance contributions for committed payments to be made to deferred members in respect of the enhanced transfer value exercise and the associated settlement gain of 11.7m both included in note 19 because these amounts are in respect of former employees.
The detailed information concerning directors emoluments, shareholdings and options is shown in the audited section of the Remuneration Report.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 101 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
Intangible assets Acquired Other Other customer acquired Non-acquired Goodwill relationships intangibles Sub total intangibles Total m m m m m m Cost As at 1 January 2011 402.8 99.2 63.0 565.0 47.3 612.3 Exchange adjustments 0.1 1.8 0.5 2.2 0.1 2.3 Acquisitions restated 2.2 6.4 1.1 9.7 - 9.7 Additions - - - - 6.8 6.8 As at 31 December 2011 restated 405.1 103.8 63.6 572.5 54.0 626.5 Exchange adjustments 15.5 5.3 2.6 23.4 1.6 25.0 Acquisitions 50.8 38.3 4.2 93.3 - 93.3 Transfer from property, plant and equipment - - - - 5.6 5.6 Additions - - - - 7.8 7.8 Disposals - - - - 0.6 0.6 As at 31 December 2012 440.4 136.8 65.2 642.4 65.2 707.6 Amortisation As at 1 January 2011 - 26.8 36.0 62.8 30.2 93.0 Exchange adjustments - 0.4 0.5 0.9 0.1 1.0 Amortisation for year - 10.6 21.7 32.3 4.1 36.4 As at 31 December 2011 - 37.0 57.2 94.2 34.2 128.4 Exchange adjustments - 0.9 2.3 3.2 1.0 4.2 Transfer from property, plant and equipment - - - - 5.2 5.2 Disposals - - - - 0.3 0.3 Amortisation for year - 23.7 5.9 29.6 4.4 34.0 As at 31 December 2012 - 59.8 60.8 120.6 42.5 163.1 NBV at 31 December 2011 restated 405.1 66.8 6.4 478.3 19.8 498.1 NBV at 31 December 2012 440.4 77.0 4.4 521.8 22.7 544.5 During the period, the Group amended its estimate for the phasing of the future consumption of the economic benets associated with its customer relationships, by changing the amortisation of these assets to a sum of digits approach from a straight-line approach as discussed in note 1 a iv.
This transfer represents software costs of 0.4m net book value historically held in PPE but reclassied to intangible assets in the year.
Financial statements 102 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs based on the synergies expected to be derived from the acquisition upon which the goodwill arose.
The Group has 34 CGUs to which goodwill is allocated but these CGUs neither have a significant proportion of the total goodwill allocated to them, nor is this the case after any aggregations of CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment as part of the overall assessment of assets against their recoverable amounts.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is determined using cash ow projections from financial budgets approved by the Board covering a three-year period.
The projected cash ows reected the latest expectation of demand for products and services.
The key assumptions in these calculations are the long-term growth rates and the discount rates applied to forecast cash ows in addition to the achievement of the forecasts themselves.
Long-term growth rates are based on long-term economic forecasts for growth in the manufacturing sector in the geography in which the CGU operates.
Pre-tax discount rates specic to each CGU are calculated by adjusting the Group post-tax WACC of 8% for the tax rate relevant to the jurisdiction before adding risk premia for the size of the unit, the characteristics of the segment in which it resides, and the geography from which the cash ows are derived.
In 2012, this exercise resulted in pre-tax discount rates of between 10.6% and 14.5% being applied in arriving at value in use.
Long-term growth rates applied were between 2.0% and 4.2%.
In the current year, no amounts of goodwill that are significant in the context of the Groups total goodwill balance were tested using the same key assumptions.
For the purpose of assessing signicance in this context, the Group uses a threshold of 20% of the total goodwill balance.
As at 31 December 2011, a group of CGUs within the Severe Service segment which accounted for 96m 24% of the Groups goodwill balance was tested using the same key assumptions.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to this group was 15.0% and the long-term growth rate applied was 2.25%.
There was no reasonably possible change in assumptions that would have eroded the headroom between the recoverable amount and the carrying value of this group of CGUs.
The aggregate amount of goodwill arising from acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 which had been deducted from the profit and loss reserves and incorporated into the IFRS transitional balance sheet as at 1 January 2004, amounted to 364m.
Cumulative impairment recognised in relation to goodwill is 6m 2011: 6m.
As at 31 December 2012, the cumulative acquired intangible amortisation was 142.1m 2011: 112.5m.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 103 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13.
Included in the total net book value of plant and machinery is 2.1m 2011: 1.0m in respect of assets acquired under finance leases.
Depreciation for the year on these assets was 0.6m 2011: 0.6m.
Financial statements 104 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14.
Inventories 2012 2011 m m Raw materials and consumables 99.3 108.6 Work in progress 118.5 117.4 Finished goods 83.5 97.6 301.3 323.6 In 2012 the cost of inventories recognised as an expense within cost of sales amounted to 1,253.6m 2011: 1,213.6m.
In 2012 the write-down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to 6.1m 2011: 10.0m.
The reversal of write-downs amounted to 2.7m 2011: 0.6m.
Write-downs and reversals in both years relate to ongoing assessments of inventory obsolescence, excess inventory holding and inventory resale values across all of the Groups businesses.
Trade and other receivables Restated 2012 2011 Falling due for payment within one year m m Trade receivables 358.5 344.9 Other receivables 28.3 21.0 Prepayments and accrued income 20.5 21.3 407.3 387.2 Receivables are stated after: Allowance for impairment 11.4 18.2 The Groups exposure to credit and market risks related to trade and other receivables is disclosed in note 18.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the terms of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
For more information about the Groups exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 18.
2012 2011 m m Current liabilities Unsecured loan notes and other loans 2.5 13.0 Current portion of finance lease liabilities 0.6 0.3 3.1 13.3 Non-current liabilities Unsecured loan notes and other loans 235.7 241.8 Finance lease liabilities 1.5 0.6 237.2 242.4 IMI plc Annual Report 2012 105 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17.
Trade and other payables Restated 2012 2011 Current m m Trade payables 251.2 298.0 Bills of exchange payable 8.0 5.1 Other taxation 17.9 15.7 Social security 9.8 8.7 Other payables 0.3 0.4` Accruals and deferred income 142.9 147.8 430.1 475.7 The 2011 social security gure has been increased by 2.4m from that reported to reect 0.7m originally reported as accruals and deferred income in 2011 and 1.7m originally reported as other taxation in 2011.
The net effect on total trade and other payables is nil.
An accrual of 8.4m relating to an insurance creditor originally held within current payables in 2011 has been re-classied as non-current.
Financial statements 106 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Financial risk management Overview The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
As described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 45 the Executive Committee is the risk committee of the Board.
The other Board committees also play a part in contributing to oversight of risk, with the Audit Committee heavily engaged in the financial aspects of risk, internal controls and assurance.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Groups financial risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the financial risks faced by the Group.
The IMI Group Assurance Department undertakes both regular and ad-hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
The Groups funding and liquidity as well as its exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange and base metal price movements are managed centrally by IMIs treasury function.
Treasury uses a combination of derivatives and conventional financial instruments to manage the underlying risks.
These derivatives and financial instruments themselves introduce exposure to the following risks: Credit risk s Market risk s Liquidity risk s This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks: the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risks, including each of the above risks: and the Groups management of capital.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers, cash and cash equivalents held by the Groups banks and other financial assets.
At the end of 2012 these totalled 489.8m 2011: restated 525.4m.
Trade and other receivables The Groups exposure to credit risk is inuenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The demographics of the Groups customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers operate, have less of an inuence on credit risk.
4% 2011: 4% of the Groups revenue is attributable to sales transactions with our largest single customer.
Geographically there is no unusual concentration of credit risk.
The Groups contract approval procedure ensures that large contracts are signed off at executive director level at which time the risk prole of the contract, including potential credit and foreign exchange risks, is reviewed.
Credit risk is minimised through due diligence on potential customers, appropriate credit limits, cash ow management and the use of documentary credits where appropriate.
Counterparty risk A group of relationship banks provides the bulk of the banking services, with pre-approved credit limits set for each institution.
Financial derivatives are entered into with these core banks and the underlying credit exposure to these instruments is included when considering the credit exposure to the counterparties.
At the end of 2012 credit exposure including cash deposited did not exceed 14.0m with any single institution 2011: 20.0m.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices will affect the Groups income and cash ows or the value of its holding of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters.
Under the management of the central treasury function, the Group enters into derivatives in the ordinary course of business and also manages financial liabilities in order to mitigate market risks.
All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the Board.
Currency risk The Group publishes consolidated accounts in sterling but conducts much of its global business in other currencies.
As a result it is subject to the risks associated with foreign exchange movements affecting transaction costs transactions, translation of foreign profits profit translation and translation of the underlying net assets of foreign operations asset translation.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 107 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Financial risk management continued Transactions The Groups wide geographic spread both in terms of cost base and customer locations helps to reduce the impact on profitability of swings in exchange rates as well as creating opportunities for central netting of exposures.
It is the Groups policy to minimise risk to exchange rate movements affecting sales and purchases by economically hedging or netting currency exposures at the time of commitment, or when there is a high probability of future commitment, using currency instruments primarily forward exchange contracts.
A proportion of forecast exposures are hedged depending on the level of confidence and hedging is topped up following regular reviews.
On this basis up to 50% of the Groups annual exposures are likely to be hedged at any point in time and the Groups net transactional exposure to different currencies varies from time to time.
profit translation The Group is exposed to the translation of profits denominated in foreign currencies into the sterling-based income statement.
The interest cost related to the currency liabilities hedging the asset base provides a partial hedge to this exposure.
Short-term currency option contracts may be used to provide limited protection against sterling strength on an opportunistic basis.
The translation of US dollar and euro-based profits represent the most significant translation exposure for the Group.
Asset translation The Group hedges its net investments in its major overseas operations by way of external currency loans and forward currency contracts.
The intention is to manage the Groups exposure to gains and losses in Group equity resulting from retranslation of currency net assets at balance sheet dates.
To the extent that an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation is determined to be an effective hedge, the gain or loss arising is recognised directly in reserves.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Detail of the quantum and management of this exposure is provided in note 18.2.
Southern European risk The Group has reviewed its risks from a potential break-up of the euro affecting Southern European countries.
Local cash deposits are already minimised through the use of existing cash pooling and intercompany loan arrangements.
There are regular reviews of exposure to and reliance on local banking partners, receivables management and the terms of significant contracts.
In 2012 Southern Europe represented around 4.6% of the Groups revenues and a similar proportion of its costs and assets - with the majority being in Italy and Spain.
Interest rate risk As a result of the Groups management of its asset translation risks, it is exposed to a number of global interest rates the most important of which are US, eurozone and UK rates.
The analysis of this exposure is shown in note 18.3 of these financial statements.
The Group adopts a policy of maintaining a portion of its liabilities at xed interest rates and reviewing the balance of the oating rate exposure to ensure that if interest rates rise globally the effect on the Groups income statement is manageable.
The Group has raised US dollar debt through the issuance of medium to long-term xed rate loan notes.
In order to manage its exposure to interest rates, in 1999 US$30m of this xed rate exposure was hedged back to oating rates through the use of interest rate swaps covering loan notes with a maturity of 2014.
The interest component of the fair value of this portion of the loan notes has been designated as a hedged item and has been revalued accordingly in the accounts.
The fair value of these interest rate swaps is included in the balance sheet at 2.1m 2011: 3.1m.
The hedged item is included in the value of the debt as an increase in liability of 2.1m 2011: increase 3.1m.
Exposure to other interest rate volatility is managed through a combination of xed rate debt and derivative instruments where appropriate.
Commodity risk The Groups operating companies purchase metal and metal components with an annual base metal material value of approximately 37m 2011: 36m.
The Group manages this exposure through a centralised process hedging copper, zinc, aluminium and nickel using a combination of financial contracts and local supply agreements designed to minimise the volatility of short-term margins.
Financial statements 108 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have adequate resources to meet its liabilities when due, with sufficient headroom to cope with abnormal market conditions.
This position is reviewed on a quarterly basis.
Funding for the Group is co-ordinated centrally by the treasury function and comprises committed bilateral facilities with a core group of banks, and a series of US loan note issues.
The level of facilities is maintained such that facilities and term loans exceed the forecast peak gross debt of the Group over a rolling 12 month view by an appropriate amount taking into account market conditions and corporate activity, including acquisitions, organic growth plans and share buybacks.
At the end of 2012 the Group had undrawn committed facilities totalling 273m 2011: 250m and was holding cash and cash equivalents of 103m 2011: 148m.
There are no significant seasonal funding requirements or capital intensive investment areas for the Group.
Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a balance sheet with a broad capital base and the strength to sustain the future development of the business including acquisitions.
The Board monitors the demographic spread of its shareholders and employees are encouraged to hold shares in the Company.
The underlying capital base of the Group includes total equity and reserves and net debt.
Employee benefit obligations net of deferred tax form part of the extended capital base.
Management of this element of the capital base is discussed further in note 19 to the financial statements.
Undrawn committed funding facilities are maintained as described above to provide additional capital for growth including acquisitions and organic investments and liquidity requirements as discussed above.
18.1 Capital base 2012 2011 m m Total equity 684 614 Gross debt 247 256 Cash 103 148 Capital base 828 722 Employee benets and deferred tax assets 182 155 Extended capital base 1,010 877 Undrawn funding facilities 273 250 Available capital base 1,283 1,127 Part of the capital base is held in currencies to broadly match the currency base of the assets being funded as described in the paragraph on asset translation earlier in this section.
The balance between debt and equity in the capital base of the Group is considered regularly by the Board in light of market conditions, business forecasts, growth opportunities and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
Funding covenants currently limit net debt to a maximum of 3 times EBITDA.
The net debt to EBITDA ratio at the end of 2012 was x0.4 2011: x0.3.
The Board would consider appropriate acquisitions which might take net debt to EBITDA to an internal limit of up to 2 to 2.5 times EBITDA as long as prevailing market conditions and the outlook for our existing businesses supported such a move.
It is expected that at these levels our debt would still be perceived as investment grade.
The potential benets to equity shareholders of greater leverage are offset by higher risk and the cost and availability of funding.
As part of the capital management process, the Group ensures that adequate reserves are available in IMI plc in order to meet proposed shareholder dividends, the purchase of shares for employee share scheme incentives and any on market share buyback programme.
The Board supports a progressive dividend policy with an aim that the dividend should be covered by at least 2 times underlying earnings.
In the event that the Board cannot identify sufficient growth opportunities through organic investment and acquisitions, the return of funds to shareholders through share buybacks or special dividends will be considered.
It should be noted that a number of shares are regularly bought in the market by an employee benefit trust in order to hedge the exposure under certain management incentive plans.
Details of these purchases are shown in note 22 to the financial statements.
The Board will consider raising additional equity in the event that it is required to support the capital base of the Group.
The Group currently uses a post tax Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC of 8% as a benchmark for investment returns.
This is reviewed regularly in light of changes in market rates.
The Board tracks the Groups return on invested capital and seeks to ensure that it consistently delivers returns in excess of the WACC.
Consistent with this objective the growth in Economic Value Added EVA is used as a metric in the Groups long-term incentive programmes.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 109 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Financial Risk Management continued 18.2 Currency prole of assets and liabilities Net assets liabilities excluding cash & Exchange Net Net debt Cash Debt contracts assets assets 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2011 m m m m m m Sterling 36 11 - 522 497 412 US dollar 257 5 234 18 10 27 Euro 327 9 11 317 8 10 Other 280 78 2 187 169 165 Total 828 103 247 - 684 614 Exchange contracts and non-sterling debt are financial instruments used as currency hedges of overseas net assets.
18.3 Interest rate risk prole Debt and Cash and Weighted Weighted exchange exchange Floating Fixed average xed average period contracts contracts rate rate interest for which 2012 2012 2012 2012 rate rate is xed m m m m % years Sterling - 533 533 - US dollar 252 5 37 210 6.8 5.1 Euro 328 9 319 - Other 189 78 111 - Total 769 625 66 210 Debt and Cash and Weighted Weighted exchange exchange Floating Fixed average xed average period contracts contracts rate rate interest for which 2011 2011 2011 2011 rate rate is xed m m m m % years Sterling - 424 424 - US dollar 255 17 6 232 6.8 6.1 Euro 234 16 218 - Other 140 64 76 - Total 629 521 124 232 Interest rates are managed using xed and oating rate debt and financial instruments including interest rate swaps.
Floating rate liabilities comprise short-term debt which bears interest at short-term bank rates and the liability side of exchange contracts where the interest element is based primarily on three month inter-bank rates.
All cash surpluses are invested for short periods and are treated as oating rate investments.
Non-interest bearing financial assets and liabilities including short-term trade receivables and payables have been excluded from the above two analyses.
Financial statements 110 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.4 Undrawn committed facilities The Group has various undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
The facilities available at 31 December in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met were as follows: 2012 2011 m m Expiring within one year - 50 Expiring between one and two years 149 - Expiring after more than two years 124 200 273 250 The weighted average life of these facilities is 2.2 years 2011: 2.7 years.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 111 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Financial risk management continued 18.6 Total financial assets and liabilities The table below sets out the Groups accounting classication of each class of financial assets and liabilities, and their fair values at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011.
Under IAS39, all derivative financial instruments not in a hedge relationship are classied as derivatives at fair value through the income statement.
The Group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes and transacts all derivatives with suitable investment grade counterparties.
All transactions in derivative financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities.
Other Total Designated derivatives Available for Amortised carrying at fair value at fair value sale assets cost value Fair value m m m m m m 2012 Cash and cash equivalents - - 102.8 - 102.8 102.8 Bank overdrafts - - - 6.3 6.3 6.3 Borrowings due within one year - - - 3.1 3.1 3.1 Borrowings due after one year 20.6 - - 216.6 237.2 278.8 Trade and other payables - - - 415.9 415.9 415.9 Trade receivables - - - 358.5 358.5 358.5 Investments - - 20.4 - 20.4 20.4 Other current financial assets liabilities Derivative assets 3.2 4.9 - - 8.1 8.1 Derivative liabilities - 2.7 - - 2.7 2.7 Total 17.4 2.2 123.2 283.4 175.4 217.0 Other Total Designated derivatives Available for Amortised carrying at fair value at fair value sale assets cost value Fair value m m m m m m 2011 Cash and cash equivalents - - 147.9 - 147.9 147.9 Bank overdrafts - - - 0.4 0.4 0.4 Borrowings due within one year - - - 13.3 13.3 13.3 Borrowings due after one year 22.4 - - 220.0 242.4 285.5 Trade payables and other payables - - - 470.6 470.6 470.6 Trade receivables - - - 344.9 344.9 344.9 Investments - - 20.4 - 20.4 20.4 Other current financial assets liabilities Derivative assets 3.1 9.0 - - 12.1 12.1 Derivative liabilities 0.2 6.9 - - 7.1 7.1 Total 19.5 2.1 168.3 359.4 208.5 251.6 Trade and other payables exclude corporation tax and other tax liabilities and include liabilities of 13.5m 2011: 19.4m falling due after more than one year: 8.3m in 1-2 years, 2.0m in 2-3 years, 2.0m in 3-4 years, 1.2m in 4-5 years 2011: 14.9m in 1-2 years, 1.8m in 2-3 years, 2.0m in 3-4 years, 1.2m in 4-5 years.
Includes 1.8m 2011: 4.9m falling due after more than one year.
Derivative liabilities include liabilities of 0.3m 2011: 1.0m falling due after more than one year: nil 1-2 years and 0.3m in 2-3 years 2011: 0.8m in 1-2 years and 0.2m in 2-3 years.
Derivative liabilities designated at fair value represent the fair value of net investment hedge derivatives.
The increase in value of net investment hedge derivatives in the year of 1.3m 2011: 1.9m is shown in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
There are no other financial liabilities included within payables other than those disclosed above in table 18.5 and 18.6.
Financial statements 112 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Valuations Cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts, short-term borrowings, trade payables, trade receivables and other assets are carried at their book values as this approximates to their fair value due to the short-term nature of the instruments.
Long-term borrowings, apart from any which are subject to hedging arrangements, are carried at amortised cost as it is the intention that they will not be repaid prior to maturity.
The fair values are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as interest rates and relevant credit spreads.
Long-term borrowings which are subject to hedging arrangements are valued using appropriate discount rates to value the relevant hedged cash ows.
Derivative assets and liabilities, including foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and metal hedges, are valued using comparable observed market prices and a valuation model using foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate curves and forward rate curves for the underlying commodities.
Investments are primarily in publicly quoted pooled funds held to fund overseas pension liabilities.
The fair value is based on the price quotation at the reporting date.
Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
Long-term borrowings which are subject to hedging arrangements of 20.6m 2011: 22.4m and derivative assets of 8.1m 2011: 12.1m and liabilities of 2.7m 2011: 7.1m are valued by Level 2 techniques.
Investments are valued by Level 1 techniques.
18.7 Exposure to credit risk The maximum exposure to credit risk for financial assets is represented by their carrying value.
Carrying amount 2012 2011 m m Cash and cash equivalents 102.8 147.9 Investments 20.4 20.4 Interest rate swaps 2.1 3.1 Forward exchange contracts 5.9 9.1 Metals contracts 0.1 - 131.3 180.5 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at 31 December by geographic region was: Carrying amount 2012 2011 m m UK 20.5 30.9 Germany 27.0 28.0 Rest of Europe 106.1 101.5 USA 78.5 77.0 Asia Pacic 80.8 73.6 Rest of World 45.6 33.9 358.5 344.9 IMI plc Annual Report 2012 113 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Financial risk management continued 18.7 Exposure to credit risk continued The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by business segment was: Carrying amount 2012 2011 m m Severe Service 154.4 132.1 Fluid Power 104.6 107.7 Indoor Climate 36.5 38.5 Beverage Dispense 40.2 41.0 Merchandising 22.5 25.1 Corporate 0.3 0.5 358.5 344.9 The Groups most significant customer, a food and beverage company, accounts for 3.6% of the carrying amount of trade receivables as at 31 December 2012 2011: 3.8%.
Impairments The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: 2012 2011 Gross Impairment Gross Impairment m m m m Not past due 301.8 1.3 304.9 2.2 Past due 1-30 days 38.3 0.9 29.4 1.0 Past due 31-90 days 13.5 0.2 12.6 0.8 Past due over 90 days 16.3 9.0 16.2 14.2 Total 369.9 11.4 363.1 18.2 The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2012 2011 m m Net balance at 1 January 18.2 17.4 Acquisitions 1.0 - Charged to the income statement 2.6 4.5 Utilised during the year 3.1 1.8 Released 6.7 1.7 Exchange 0.6 0.2 Net balance at 31 December 11.4 18.2 The impairment gain recognised of 4.1m 2011: loss 2.8m relates to the movement in the Groups assessment of the risk of non-recovery from a range of customers across all of its businesses.
Financial statements 114 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.8 Market risk sensitivity analysis on financial instruments As described elsewhere in this note, the Group uses financial instruments including debt and derivatives to reduce its underlying balance sheet and income statement exposure to volatility in interest rates, currency rates and base metal commodity prices.
In estimating the sensitivity of the financial instruments we have assumed a reasonable potential change in interest rates, currency rates or metal prices.
The method used assumes that all other variables are held constant to determine the impact on profit before tax and equity.
The analysis is for illustrative purposes only, as in practice market rates rarely change in isolation.
Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimates due to the movements in the underlying transactions, actions taken to mitigate any potential losses, the interaction of more than one sensitivity occurring, and further developments in global financial markets.
As such this table should not be considered as a projection of likely future gains and losses in these financial instruments.
Financial instruments sensitivity table The outputs from the sensitivity analysis are estimates of the impact of market risk assuming that the specified changes occur only to the financial instruments and do not reect the opposite movement from the impact of the specic change on the underlying business that they are designed to hedge.
1% decrease 1% increase 10% 10% 10% increase 10% decrease in interest in interest weakening strengthening in base metal in base metal rates rates in sterling in sterling costs costs m m m m m m At 31 December 2012 Impact on income statement: loss gain - - 2.2 2.2 0.3 0.3 Impact on equity: loss gain - - 65.7 65.7 - - At 31 December 2011 Impact on income statement: loss gain - - 3.5 3.5 0.4 0.4 Impact on equity: loss gain - - 51.2 51.2 - - The above sensitivities are estimates of the impact of market risk on financial instruments only.
As noted, it is the Groups policy to use financial instruments to manage its underlying exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange and base metal price movements.
In accordance with this policy, the Group is confident that the underlying risks that these financial instruments have been acquired to hedge will move in an opposite direction.
To the extent that the underlying currency, interest rate or metals price exposure is not fully hedged, the Group will remain exposed to movements in these variables.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 115 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
Employee benets Pension arrangements, other post-employment and other long-term employee benefit arrangements are accounted for in accordance with the requirements of IAS19.
As at 31 December 2012 the Group continues to provide pension benets through a mixture of dened benefit and dened contribution arrangements.
Contributions to dened contribution arrangements are recognised in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
The major pension and other post-employment benefit arrangements are funded with plan assets that have been segregated in a trust or foundation.
Assessments of the obligations for funded and unfunded plans are carried out by independent actuaries, based on the projected unit credit method.
Pension costs primarily represent the increase in the actuarial present value of the obligation for projected benets based on employee service during the year and the interest on this obligation in respect of employee service in previous years, net of the expected return on the assets.
Movements in the pension assets and liabilities that arise during the year from changes in actuarial assumptions, or because actual experience is different from the underlying actuarial assumptions, are recognised through equity.
The Group also provides a number of other long-term arrangements to our employees, with benets payable more than 12 months after the related services are rendered.
These plans are generally not funded and actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
The Groups strategy is to move away from dened benefit arrangements towards dened contribution arrangements wherever possible and to minimise the liability of the Group.
The Group has 79 2011: 75 different dened benefit arrangements worldwide.
The increase in the number of schemes during the year resulted from the acquisition activity.
The largest dened benefit arrangement is the IMI Pension Fund in the UK the Fund.
This constitutes 82% of the total dened benefit liabilities and 89% of the total dened benefit assets.
The last formal triennial actuarial valuation of the Fund was carried out as at 31 March 2011.
The statement of funding principles agreed with the Trustee resulted in an actuarial deficit of 120m.
The Group agreed to pay a special contribution of 36.1m in December 2011 and further contributions of 16.8m each July from 2012 to 2016 inclusive as part of the recovery plan to close the deficit by 2016.
The Fund was closed to future accrual on 31 December 2010.
In 2010 the Trustee also purchased approximately 325m of annuities to match certain benefit payments due from the Fund.
The purchase price of these annuities was greater than the value, measured using the underlying IAS19 assumptions, of the insured benets.
The Trustee also rearranged the remaining Fund assets with the objective of preserving the expected return on the total Fund assets including the annuity policies.
This was achieved, with a reduction in the funding volatility of the Fund, as measured by the Trustees value at risk model, of approximately 25%.
The purchase of the annuities also reduced the mortality risk by around 20%.
Also during 2010, the difference between the cost of the annuities and the underlying IAS19 liability was nanced by a special contribution to the Fund of 48.6m which the Trustee agreed to invest in a special purpose vehicle giving them conditional rights to receive income of 4.4m a year for twenty years, or until the Fund becomes fully funded, provided the Group paid dividends to its shareholders in the previous year.
As at 31 December 2012, the valuation of this asset for the purpose of its inclusion in the Groups net liability for dened benefit obligations under IAS19 was 27.1m.
The Group recognises there is a risk inherent within dened benefit arrangements that the assets do not match the liabilities at any given point in time.
In advance of the IMI Pension Fund 2011 triennial actuarial valuation, the Group continued to work with the Trustee to mitigate the risk of a volatile funding position.
A number of important initiatives were implemented in line with this objective.
During 2011 certain Fund members accepted the Groups enhanced transfer value offer.
The 31 December 2011 dened benefit obligation in respect of the Fund reected the liability to pay transfer values in early 2012.
The transfer values payable were less than the value of the liabilities measured using the underlying IAS19 assumptions, which resulted in a curtailment gain.
As part of the Groups offer, in addition to paying transfer values from the Fund which reduced the IAS19 assets and liabilities by 27.4m each, in 2012, the Group made payments of 8.5m to the individuals in addition to paying employers national insurance thereon of 1.1m.
The curtailment gain of 11.7m reported for the year ended 31 December 2011 in this note was therefore partially offset by 9.6m additional pension costs accrued at this date, which resulted in a net gain of 2.1m, reected in segmental operating profit.
An exercise was also carried out whereby Fund pensioners were given the option, with effect from 1 January 2012, to exchange future increases on their pensions for a higher current pension.
This resulted in a reduction in the Funds IAS19 dened benefit obligation of 9.0m as at 1 January 2012, and is reected as an exceptional past service credit in the income statement for 2012.
Also included in the exceptional net credit on special pensions events of 10.9m is a credit of 3.2m related to a change in the scheme rules of two of our Swiss plans and a charge of 1.3m relating to the exit from a state-sponsored scheme in Japan.
Financial statements 116 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reconciliation to the balance sheet as at 31 December 2012 2011 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post  ment ment Total UK ment ment Total m m m m m m m m Funded schemes in surplus: Fair value of assets - 3.6 - 3.6 - 21.6 - 21.6 Present value of dened benefit obligation - 3.4 - 3.4 - 18.2 - 18.2 - 0.2 - 0.2 - 3.4 - 3.4 Restriction due to asset ceiling - 0.2 - 0.2 - 1.5 - 1.5 Assets for dened benefit funded schemes - - - - - 1.9 - 1.9 Funded schemes in deficit: Fair value of assets 1,076.2 130.7 - 1,206.9 1,061.5 112.4 - 1,173.9 Present value of dened benefit obligation 1,184.8 169.6 - 1,354.4 1,159.5 142.9 - 1,302.4 Liabilities for dened benefit funded schemes 108.6 38.9 - 147.5 98.0 30.5 - 128.5 Present value of obligation for unfunded schemes 2.0 69.7 13.0 84.7 3.5 60.3 13.4 77.2 Liabilities for dened benefit schemes 110.6 108.6 13.0 232.2 101.5 90.8 13.4 205.7 Net liability for dened benefit obligations 110.6 108.6 13.0 232.2 101.5 88.9 13.4 203.8 Total fair value of assets 1,076.2 134.3 - 1,210.5 1,061.5 134.0 - 1,195.5 Total present value of dened benefit obligation 1,186.8 242.7 13.0 1,442.5 1,163.0 221.4 13.4 1,397.8 Asset ceiling - 0.2 - 0.2 - 1.5 - 1.5 Net liability for dened benefit obligations 110.6 108.6 13.0 232.2 101.5 88.9 13.4 203.8 IMI plc Annual Report 2012 117 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
Employee benets continued a Summary of assumptions Weighted averages 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa Ination rate - RPI 3.0 n a 3.1 n a 3.5 n a Ination rate - CPI 2.0 1.9 2.1 1.9 n a 2.0 Discount rate 4.25 2.8 4.8 3.7 5.5 4.1 Expected rate of salary increases n a 2.8 n a 2.8 n a 2.8 1 2 Rate of pension increases 3.0 0.5 3.1 0.5 3.5 0.6 2 Rate of increase for deferred pensions 3.0 0.5 3.1 0.5 3.5 0.6 3 Medical cost trend rate n a 5.0 n a 5.0 n a 5.0 4 Expected return on equities n a n a 7.1 7.5 7.4 7.3 4 Expected return on bonds n a n a 3.8 2.8 4.8 3.1 4 Expected return on property n a n a 6.0 5.0 6.7 5.1 4 Expected return on other assets n a n a 8.4 2.4 8.4 2.4 4 Overall expected return on assets n a n a 6.5 4.3 7.1 4.4 1 In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP for UK.
2 The weighted average pension increase assumption for pensions in payment and pensions in deferment includes plans where pension increases are zero or not applicable.
Assumed healthcare cost trend rates do not have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the income statement.
4 As a consequence of the adoption of IAS19 revised for the year ending 31 December 2013, the expected returns on pension assets are no longer required to be disclosed, because the return on assets recognised in the income statement will be measured by reference to the discount rate rather than the specic returns attributable to the assets.
Had this standard applied for 2012, we estimate that we would have reported a finance cost of 7.8m rather than the reported finance credit of 11.0m.
The mortality assumptions used for the IMI Pension Fund reect its experience, together with an allowance for improvements over time.
The experience was reviewed as part of the formal triennial actuarial valuation carried out as at 31 March 2011, and the assumptions used as at 31 December 2012 and 2011 reect the results of this review.
The table below shows the implied life expectancy from age 65 for the Funds current and future pensioners based on the assumptions adopted.
The allowance for future improvements in mortality rates from 2011 is in line with the CMIs 2010 Core Projection model, with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% pa.
The CMI is a research body funded by the actuarial profession to collect and analyse UK mortality rates.
The allowance for future improvements in mortality rates assumed at December 2010 was in line with the published medium cohort rates, with a minimum annual rate of improvement of 1%.
Implied life expectancy years from age 65 for: 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 Males Females Males Females Males Females Current pensioners 21.0 23.9 20.9 23.8 20.7 22.4 Future pensioners 22.8 25.9 22.7 25.8 22.7 24.3 The sensitivity of the balance sheet liability in respect of the IMI Pension Fund to changes in the key assumptions is shown in j.
Financial statements 118 118 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS b Components of the pension expense recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2012 2011 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post  ment ment Total UK ment ment Total m m m m m m m m Dened benefit schemes operating costs Current service cost - 4.5 0.6 5.1 - 4.6 0.8 5.4 Past service credit cost 9.0 3.2 - 12.2 - - 0.1 0.1 Recognition of losses gains - - 1.4 1.4 - - 0.1 0.1 Settlement curtailment - 0.4 - 0.4 11.7 1.8 - 13.5 Total income expense 9.0 0.9 2.0 6.1 11.7 2.8 0.8 8.1 Dened benefit schemes financial costs Interest cost 52.8 7.7 0.5 61.0 58.3 8.2 0.7 67.2 Expected return on assets 66.3 5.7 - 72.0 67.5 5.9 - 73.4 Total income expense 13.5 2.0 0.5 11.0 9.2 2.3 0.7 6.2 Total dened benefit schemes pension expense income 22.5 2.9 2.5 17.1 20.9 5.1 1.5 14.3 Accrued payment to deferred members - - - - 9.6 - - 9.6 Pension expense from dened contribution schemes 4.0 7.1 - 11.1 3.1 6.1 - 9.2 Total pension income expense 18.5 10.0 2.5 6.0 8.2 11.2 1.5 4.5 As at 31 December 2011 9.6m including 1.1m National Insurance contributions has been accrued for committed payments to be made to deferred members in respect of the enhanced transfer value exercise.
This amount was included in operating profit for 2011.
After the related settlement gain of 11.7m included above, this exercise resulted in a 2.1m net gain in the 2011 income statement.
The overseas dened contribution expense of 7.1m includes a 1.3m charge relating to the exit of a state-sponsored Japanese scheme.
c Income and expense recognised through equity for the year ended 31 December 2012 2011 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post  ment ment Total UK ment ment Total m m m m m m m m Actuarial losses during the year 48.4 28.1 - 76.5 64.9 19.9 - 84.8 Change in the effect of the asset ceiling - 1.3 - 1.3 - 0.4 - 0.4 Exchange gain - 2.0 0.5 2.5 - 0.8 - 0.8 Total losses recognised during the year 48.4 24.8 0.5 72.7 64.9 19.5 - 84.4 Cumulative amount of actuarial losses at the beginning of the year 280.9 50.3 5.9 337.1 216.0 30.8 5.9 252.7 Cumulative amount of actuarial losses at the end of the year 329.3 75.1 5.4 409.8 280.9 50.3 5.9 337.1 Neither the 2012 nor the 2011 gure includes any gain or loss on the asset ceiling due to exchange rate movements.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 119 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
Employee benets continued d Reconciliation of present value of Dened benefit Obligation DBO for the year ended 31 December 2012 2011 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post  ment ment Total UK ment ment Total m m m m m m m m Present value of DBO at the beginning of the year 1,163.0 221.4 13.4 1,397.8 1,091.9 208.0 14.4 1,314.3 Current service cost - 4.5 0.6 5.1 - 4.6 0.8 5.4 Interest cost 52.8 7.7 0.5 61.0 58.3 8.2 0.7 67.2 Employee contributions - 3.0 - 3.0 - 2.9 - 2.9 Past service cost 9.0 3.2 - 12.2 - - 0.1 0.1 Actuarial gain loss: from experience 7.5 2.2 1.0 4.3 10.5 1.8 0.6 12.9 from changes in assumptions 76.5 31.1 0.4 108.0 90.0 18.2 0.5 108.7 Actual benefit payments: from plan assets 89.0 7.7 - 96.7 55.0 10.0 - 65.0 direct from the employers - 3.8 2.4 6.2 - 3.9 2.5 6.4 Settlement curtailment - 0.4 - 0.4 11.7 2.9 - 14.6 Purchase of business - 1.3 - 1.3 - - - - Exchange - 6.1 0.5 6.6 - 0.1 - 0.1 Transfer to dened contribution scheme - 7.3 - 7.3 - 2.0 - 2.0 Present value of DBO at the end of the year 1,186.8 242.7 13.0 1,442.5 1,163.0 221.4 13.4 1,397.8 The Dened benefit Obligation included within Purchase of business relates to the Remosa acquisition.
The total return equity swap s contract provides the IMI Pension Fund with equity returns in excess of LIBOR on a notional investment of 377.5m 270.3m in respect of insurance annuity policies: s 27.1m in respect of the IMI Pension Funds interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership: s 152.2m in respect of hedge fund investments: s 64.2m in respect of PFI investments: and s 11.3m in respect of cash and currency items.
s There are no assets that may be counted against the liabilities for overseas non-post employment arrangements.
Financial statements 120 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS f Reconciliation of the fair value of assets for the year ended 31 December 2012 2011 Overseas Overseas post post employemployUK ment Total UK ment Total m m m m m m Fair value of assets at the beginning of the year 1,061.5 134.0 1,195.5 981.5 134.5 1,116.0 Expected return on assets 66.3 5.7 72.0 67.5 5.9 73.4 Actuarial gain loss on assets 20.6 5.2 25.8 14.6 3.5 11.1 Actual company contributions: normal - 5.5 5.5 - 6.3 6.3 additional - as agreed under 2011 valuation funding plans 16.8 - 16.8 16.8 - 16.8 additional - other - - - 36.1 - 36.1 Employee contributions - 3.0 3.0 - 2.9 2.9 benefit payments met from plan assets 89.0 7.7 96.7 55.0 10.0 65.0 Settlements - - - - 1.1 1.1 Exchange - 4.1 4.1 - 0.9 0.9 Transfer to dened contribution scheme - 7.3 7.3 - 1.9 1.9 Fair value of assets at the end of the year 1,076.2 134.3 1,210.5 1,061.5 134.0 1,195.5 g Reconciliation of actual return on assets for the year ended 31 December 2012 2011 Overseas Overseas post post employemployUK ment Total UK ment Total m m m m m m Expected return on assets 66.3 5.7 72.0 67.5 5.9 73.4 Actuarial gain loss on assets 20.6 5.2 25.8 14.6 3.5 11.1 Actual return on assets 86.9 10.9 97.8 82.1 2.4 84.5 IMI plc Annual Report 2012 121 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
Employee benets continued h Additional information UK Overseas Total m m m Expected employer contributions to dened benefit schemes for the year ending 31 December 2013 Normal - 5.5 5.5 Additional 16.8 - 16.8 Expected employee contributions to dened benefit schemes for the year ending 31 December 2013 - 3.1 3.1 Expected benets to be paid by the Company for the year ending 31 December 2013 - 6.2 6.2 The IMI Pension Fund closed to future accrual with effect from 31 December 2010. i Historical information 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m Present value of the dened benefit obligation 1,442.5 1,397.8 1,314.3 1,301.2 1,093.7 Fair value of assets 1,210.5 1,195.5 1,116.0 1,044.8 958.2 deficit 232.0 202.3 198.3 256.4 135.5 Impact of the asset ceiling 0.2 1.5 1.1 1.1 1.6 Net liability for dened benefit obligations 232.2 203.8 199.4 257.5 137.1 Experience gain arising on plan liabilities 4.3 12.9 12.7 23.1 13.0 Experience gain loss arising on plan assets 25.8 11.1 19.6 74.0 245.6 j Sensitivities The balance sheet liability is sensitive to the long-term accounting assumptions chosen, in particular to the discount rate and implied life expectancy.
These assumptions affect the value placed on the dened benefit obligation and the value placed on any insured annuity policies, but not the market value of any invested assets.
As the Fund constitutes 82% of the total liabilities and 89% of the total assets for the Groups long-term employee benefit arrangements as at 31 December 2012, it is appropriate to consider the sensitivity to changes in key assumptions adopted in respect of the Fund.
The net dened benefit liability for the Fund as at 31 December 2012, based on the assumptions chosen and the market value of assets at that date, is 109m.
The table below illustrates how this net dened benefit liability would move, as at 31 December 2012, for small changes in the key assumptions.
Increase in net dened benefit liability as at 31 December 2012 m Discount rate 0.1% pa lower 16 Ination-linked pension increases 0.1% pa higher 13 Increase of one year in life expectancy from age 65 31 in each case all other assumptions are unchanged.
The balance sheet liability is also sensitive to changes in the market value of the assets, in particular non-bond-like assets as there is no direct link between these and the assumptions used to place a value on the dened benefit obligation.
To illustrate the potential sensitivity, the impact as at 31 December 2012 had the value of non-bond-like assets held by the Fund been 10% lower than they actually were is shown below.
Increase in net dened benefit liability as at 31 December 2012 m 10% fall in non-bond-like assets 69 The Fund assets excluding cash, bonds, insurance annuity policies and the Funds interest in the IMI Scottish Partnership.
Financial statements 122 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.
Share-based payments The Group operates the following share-based payment schemes: SAYE savings-related share option scheme This scheme is open to the majority of the Groups UK employees, including the executive directors, and allows the grant of options to all participants at a discount of up to 20% below the market price.
Such schemes are not subject to performance conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to use their own money to purchase IMI shares.
SAYE options are exercisable within six months of the date they become exercisable or otherwise expire.
Share Incentive Plan SIP This scheme is open to the majority of the Groups UK employees, including the executive directors.
This scheme covers two separate opportunities for employees to share in IMIs success.
Partnership shares allow employees to sacrifice up to 125 per month from pre-tax pay, which is used to buy IMI shares.
Matching shares may be awarded in respect of partnership shares acquired under the plan although the policy to date has been not to award any matching shares.
Free shares allows a grant of shares to employees each year, up to a maximum of 0.6% of salary capped at 3,000.
Both the Partnership and Free share schemes are not subject to performance conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to build up their shareholdings with the Company.
Global Employee Share Purchase Plan GESPP The IMI Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme was introduced in 2011 for USA and Germany.
The German GESPP offers the opportunity to buy shares in IMI at a xed price at a future date.
This scheme mirrors the UK SAYE, with a minimum maximum savings limit per month and contract duration of three or five years.
The USA GESPP also offers the opportunity to buy shares in IMI at a xed price at a future date.
The USA scheme also operates in a similar way to SAYE, with a minimum maximum savings limit per month.
However the contract duration is for a xed period of two years and different taxation conditions apply for the exercise period.
Performance Share Plan PSP The Performance Share Plan is open to the Companys executive directors and selected senior managers within the Group.
For awards granted prior to April 2009, 50% of these PSP awards vest subject to EPS growth while the remaining 50% of awards are subject to relative TSR total shareholder return.
For awards granted in 2009, 100% of the awards granted vest subject to relative TSR performance.
For awards granted in 2010 and 2011, 50% of PSP awards vest subject to EPS growth, 25% vest subject to TSR, and 25% vest subject to RoOCE Return on Operating Capital Employed.
For awards granted in 2012 and to be granted in 2013, 50% of PSP awards will vest subject to EPS, 25% subject to TSR, and 25% subject to organic revenue growth on a compound annual growth rate basis.
Share Matching Plan SMP Executive directors and selected senior managers annual incentive payments are governed by the individuals achievement of a Share Ownership Guideline SOG.
The SOG is a requirement to hold a percentage of salary as IMI shares, and if achieved, any incentive payment earned is made in cash.
If not achieved, a proportion of any earned annual incentive payment will be mandatorily deferred for three years and delivered in IMI shares in the SMP.
This mandated investment if Share Ownership Guideline is not achieved is matched from 75% up to a maximum of 200%.
These matching shares can be earned if performance conditions over the three year vesting period are met.
Qualifying employees may voluntarily elect to defer all or part of the remainder of their incentive payment, and invest personal funds, up to a maximum of 100% of their annual incentive opportunity.
Additional shares, in the form of a matching award, may be earned to a maximum of 200% of the gross equivalent number of shares invested in the plan if performance conditions over the three year vesting period are met.
Performance measures for 2009 SMP awards measured over 2009-2011 were exceptional, and included one third TSR, one third profit before tax measured annually and one third annual priority targets measured annually.
The annual priority targets were weighted equally, in 2009 between cash conversion and profit drop through and, in 2010 and 2011, between cash conversion and return on sales.
The performance measure for SMP under the 2010-2013 schemes is economic value added.
Share Option Plan SOP Share option awards were made from 2009 to selected senior managers and certain other employees under the Share Option Plan adopted in 2009.
These awards are not subject to performance conditions, but are subject to a three year vesting period.
The purpose of the Plan is to give selected IMI employees who are not executive directors of the Company the opportunity to share in the benets of share price growth and to increase their IMI shareholding.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 123 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.
Share-based payments continued The following share-based plans are no longer operated, but awards are outstanding under them: Executive Share Option Scheme Executive share options were last awarded to executive directors in 2004 and to certain other employees in 2005 under the Executive Share Option 1995 Scheme which expired in May 2005.
All outstanding options granted under this scheme were granted subject to stretching tiered performance conditions related to growth in EPS above ination over a xed period of three financial years.
Executive share options expire if they are not exercised or they lapse within the periods shown below.
Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP awards were made in 2005 as part of the transition to new long-term incentive arrangements introduced in 2005.
The LTIP allows for cash awards to be made to executive directors and selected senior managers within the Group subject to certain performance conditions.
At the end of the performance period, the net of tax value of any LTIP payments can or in the case of executive directors, must normally be invested in market purchases of IMI shares pursuant to a deferred share plan.
Such share purchases are to be made through an employee trust and held for a further three year period.
After that period, matching shares are awarded at the ratio of one additional share for every four invested with no further performance conditions.
Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Under the DBP, for executive directors and selected senior managers, a proportion of earned annual bonus was mandatorily deferred for three years, and delivered in IMI shares.
Qualifying employees also elected to voluntarily defer all or part of the remainder of their annual bonus.
Additional shares, in the form of a matching award, may be earned to a maximum of 100%, or 125% for the Chief Executive, of the deferred bonus at the entry share price level if stretching performance conditions are met by the Company over the three year deferral period.
Analysis of options granted Currently operated share-based payment schemes Performance Share 1 1 Employee SAYE options Share Plan Matching Plan Share Option Plan Number of Weighted Normal Number of Normal Number of Normal Number of Weighted Normal options average exercisable awards exercisable awards exercisable awards average exercisable thousand option price date thousand date thousand date thousand option price date 2005 464 380p 2008-2010 706 2008 - - - - - 2006 251 495p 2009-2011 716 2009 - - - - - 2007 204 517p 2010-2012 734 2010 - - - - - 2008 342 391p 2011-2013 995 2011 - - - - - 2009 832 201p 2012-2014 673 2012 1,783 2012 2,532 441p 2012 2010 190 511p 2013-2015 228 2013 1,145 2013 1,565 645p 2013 2011 111 849p 2014-2016 234 2014 821 2014 1,463 959p 2014 2012 175 890p 2015-2017 230 2015 1,220 2015 1,361 982p 2015 Global Employee Share Purchase Plan Weighted Number of average Normal options option exercisable thousand price date 2011 246 695p 2013-2016 2012 35 872p 2014-2017 Financial statements 124 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Legacy share-based payment schemes Long-term Deferred 1 1 Executive Option Scheme Incentive Plan Bonus Plan Number of Weighted Normal Number of Normal Number of Normal options average exercisable awards exercisable awards exercisable thousand option price date thousand date thousand date 2003 2,258 257p 2006-2013 - - - - 2004 2,199 358p 2007-2014 - - - - 2005 484 421p 2008-2015 53 2008 - - 2006 - - - 44 2009 117 2009 2007 - - - 61 2010 184 2010 2008 - - - 82 2011 183 2011 These options were granted at an option price of nil.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options outstanding are as follows: Options without Options with performance conditions performance conditions Weighted Number of Range of average options option prices option price Number of options Outstanding at 1 January 2011 5,347,005 201-645p 464p 4,800,876 Exercisable at 1 January 2011 344,142 201-517p 364p 18,905 Granted 1,819,496 632-972p 917p 1,054,632 Exercised 317,903 201-645p 390p 940,459 Lapsed 612,488 201-972p 573p 171,553 Outstanding at 31 December 2011 6,236,110 201-972p 575p 4,743,496 Exercisable at 31 December 2011 205,849 257-511p 386p 89,979 Granted 1,571,800 868-1,007p 970p 1,450,256 Exercised 2,159,414 201-972p 399p 792,966 Lapsed 518,337 201-981p 722p 389,070 Outstanding at 31 December 2012 5,130,159 201-1,007p 771p 5,011,716 Exercisable at 31 December 2012 182,339 201-890p 404p 2,254,154 IMI plc Annual Report 2012 125 ENGINEERING ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.
Share-based payments continued Share options previously reported as Employee SAYE options and Executive options have been combined within options without performance conditions.
The options previously reported as Long-Term Incentive Plan options, Performance Share Plan options and Deferred Bonus Plan options have been combined within options with performance conditions.
In both cases these schemes have substantially similar arrangements.
Options with performance conditions were granted with an option price of nil.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2012 is 6.51 years 2011: 6.99 years.
Included in these balances are share options that have not been recognised in accordance with IFRS2 as the options were granted on or before 7 November 2002.
These options have not been subsequently modied and therefore do not need to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS2.
The number of these share options outstanding was as follows: 1 January 2011: 10,022 31 December 2011 and 1 January 2012: nil 31 December 2012: nil The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options exercised during the period was 9.09 2011: 9.94.
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted, based on a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The assumptions used for grants in 2012 included a dividend yield of 3.7% 2011: 3.5%, expected share price volatility of 38% 2011: 30%, a weighted average expected life of 3.6 years 2011: 3.4 years and a weighted average interest rate of 0.5% 2011: 2.1%.
The expected volatility is wholly based on the historical volatility calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
Applying the assumptions noted above, the weighted average fair value of share options granted in the year at their grant date was 2.90 2011: 2.55.
The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share-based payments are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Equity settled share-based payment expense in employee cost in the income statement 10.1 8.9 The share-based payment expense of 10.1m 2011: 8.9m comprises a charge of 12.4m 2011: 10.3m for the year offset by a credit of 2.3m 2011: 1.4m in respect of lapses.
6.0m 2011: 6.0m of the total charge and 0.7m 2011: nil of the total credit is in respect of directors.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Trade Investigation Restructuring warranties costs Other Total m m m m m Current 6.9 13.1 1.6 - 21.6 Non-current - 19.3 - 13.9 33.2 At 1 January 2012 6.9 32.4 1.6 13.9 54.8 Arising during the year 10.8 2.3 1.2 2.4 7.3 Acquisitions - 0.7 - - 0.7 Utilised during the year 13.1 6.4 2.8 0.7 23.0 Exchange adjustment 0.1 0.6 - - 0.7 At 31 December 2012 4.5 23.8 - 10.8 39.1 Current 4.3 15.0 - - 19.3 Non-current 0.2 8.8 - 10.8 19.8 4.5 23.8 - 10.8 39.1 Financial statements 126 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The restructuring provision reects residual amounts committed but not spent in relation to a number of specic projects to reorganise operations and facilities.
Trade warranties are given in the normal course of business and cover a range of periods, typically 1-2 years, with the expected amounts falling due in less than one year separately analysed above.
Amounts set aside represent managements best estimate regarding the amount of the settlements and the timing of resolution with customers.
CCI is subject to oversight by an independent compliance monitor pursuant to the terms of a settlement agreement with the US Department of Justice.
The provision and spend above related to costs associated with this monitor and the cost of resolving certain investigation related matters.
The three year monitoring period ends in June 2013, as such the residual costs associated with this are not expected to be significant.
Other provisions are principally environmental provisions, recognising the Groups obligation to remediate contaminated land at a number of current and former sites.
Because of the long-term nature of the liability, the timescales are uncertain and the provision represents managements best estimates of these costs.
Share capital Number of ordinary shares of 25p each 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m Authorised 480.0 480.0 120.0 120.0 Issued and fully paid: In issue at the start of the year 340.2 339.9 85.0 85.0 Issued to satisfy employee share schemes 0.5 0.3 0.2 - In issue at the end of the year 340.7 340.2 85.2 85.0 Of which held within retained earnings 21.3 22.9 Shares issued and purchased during the year are shown in the table below: Employee benefit Trust Treasury Other Total m m m m In issue at 31 December 2011 3.8 19.1 317.3 340.2 New issues - - 0.5 0.5 Market purchases 1.0 - 1.0 - Allocations 2.6 - 2.6 - At 31 December 2012 2.2 19.1 319.4 340.7 IMI plc Annual Report 2012 127 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
Share capital continued During the year 0.5m shares were issued under employee share schemes realising 1.2m.
The Employee benefit Trust made market purchases of a total of 1.0m 2011: 0.8m shares with an aggregate market value of 10.0m 2011: 8.0m and a nominal value of 0.3m 2011: 0.2m including dealing costs of nil 2011: nil.
Share options exercised in 2012 were settled using the shares held in the Groups employee benefit trust.
Of the 21.3m 2011: 23.0m shares held within retained earnings, 2.2m 2011: 3.8m shares with an aggregate market value of 24.5m 2011: 29.1m are held in trust to satisfy employee share scheme vesting.
Dividends After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors.
The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences.
2012 2011 m m 20.7p per qualifying ordinary share 2011: 19.0p 66.1 60.3 The following dividends were declared and paid by the Group during the year: 2012 2011 m m 19.0p per qualifying ordinary share 2011: 17.0p 60.3 53.9 11.8p per qualifying ordinary share 2011: 11.0p 37.5 34.9 97.8 88.8 Share options The majority of UK employees may participate in the IMI Sharesave Plan 2004 and selected senior executives within the Group participate in the IMI Executive Share Option 1995 Scheme and the IMI Performance Share Plan.
Cash ow notes a Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents 2012 2011 m m Cash and cash equivalents in current assets 102.8 147.9 Bank overdraft in current liabilities 6.3 0.4 Cash and cash equivalents 96.5 147.5 b Reconciliation of net cash to movement in net borrowings Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 50.3 27.9 Net repayment of borrowings 25.1 16.0 Cash outow inow 25.2 43.9 Debt acquired 20.8 2.5 Currency translation differences 10.4 4.2 Movement in net borrowings in the year 35.6 37.2 Net borrowings at the start of the year 108.2 145.4 Net borrowings at the end of the year 143.8 108.2 c Analysis of net debt Borrowings and finance leases due Cash and cash within one after more Total equivalents year than one year net debt m m m m At 1 January 2012 147.5 13.3 242.4 108.2 Debt acquired - - 20.8 20.8 Cash ow excluding settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet 58.7 10.2 14.9 33.6 Settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet 8.4 - - 8.4 Other currency translation differences 0.7 - 11.1 10.4 At 31 December 2012 96.5 3.1 237.2 143.8 24.
Operating leases Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 2012 2011 Land and Land and buildings Others buildings Others m m m m Within one year 16.8 6.4 21.0 5.2 In the second to fifth year 45.3 12.4 37.6 12.2 After five years 30.2 2.5 23.4 - 92.3 21.3 82.0 17.4 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group primarily for certain of its ofce properties.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 129 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.
Commitments Group contracts in respect of future capital expenditure which had been placed at the balance sheet date amounted to 5.7m 2011: 7.3m.
Contingent liabilities In May 2012 companies belonging to a British builders merchant served damages claims against IMI plc and others relating to alleged financial losses incurred in the UK as a result of anticompetitive behaviour undertaken by a number of manufacturers of copper plumbing tubes and copper plumbing ttings.
An investigation by the European Commission was commenced in 2001 and found cartel activity for which it imposed fines in 2004 tubes and 2006 ttings.
IMI plc disposed of its former copper plumbing tubes and ttings businesses in 2002.
There are separate tubes and ttings cases in the English High Court and, whilst both are at a very early stage, IMI is defending both claims robustly and has brought in all other appropriate parties as contributors.
It is not possible for IMI to assess properly whether any losses can be established by the claimants and, if so, the potential quantum or timing of such losses and if necessary, the contributions recoverable from other parties, including IMIs former tubes and ttings subsidiaries.
Group contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of business and other items amounted to 102m 2011: 95m.
Related party transactions Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
The Board is considered to be the key management personnel and their remuneration is as follows: Restated 2012 2011 m m Short term employee benets 5.6 6.3 Termination Benets 0.7 - Share-based payments 5.3 6.0 Total 11.6 12.3 Short-term employee benets comprise salary, including employers social contributions, benets earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year.
Short-term employee benets in 2011 have been restated to include the non-executive directors remuneration and employers social contributions.
There are no other related party transactions.
