BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Report of the independent auditors to the members of Inchcape plc We have audited the parent company Financial Statements of OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES Inchcape plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which ACT 2006 In our opinion: comprise the Company balance sheet, the accounting policies and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that the part of the Directors report on remuneration to be audited has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and has been properly prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Companies Act 2006: and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS year for which the parent company Financial Statements are As explained more fully in the statement of Directors prepared is consistent with the parent company Financial responsibilities set out on page 63, the Directors are responsible Statements.
for the preparation of the parent company Financial Statements MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our BY EXCEPTION responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
our opinion: Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and been received from branches not visited by us: or only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no the parent company Financial Statements and the part of the other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or Directors report on remuneration to be audited are not in assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other agreement with the accounting records and returns: or person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent are not made: or in writing.
we have not received all the information and explanations we SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS require for our audit.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give OTHER MATTER reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free We have reported separately on the Group Financial from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Statements of Inchcape plc for the year ended This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies 31 December 2012. are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by MARK GILL, the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Senior Statutory Auditor Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and for and on behalf of  LLP non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements.
If London we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 11 March 2013 inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion the parent company Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. www.
