OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Informa plc We have audited the financial statements the OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial statements of Informa plc for the year ended In our opinion the financial statements: 31December2012 which comprise the Company Balance t give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys Sheet and the related notes 1 to 10.
The financial reporting affairs as at 31 December 2012: framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards t have been properly prepared in accordance with United United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as t have been properly prepared in accordance with the a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we We have nothing to report in respect of the following: do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
to report to you if, in our opinion: t proper accounting records have not been kept by the RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES Company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR not been received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the t the financial statements are not in agreement with the preparation of the financial statements and for being accounting records and returns: or satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on t we have not received all the information and the financial statements in accordance with applicable explanations we require for our audit.
law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Ian Waller for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS London, UK An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 21 February 2013 disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 135
