OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2012 1 GENERAL INFORMATION The Company is incorporated in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and headquartered in Switzerland.
The address of the registered office is given on page 39.
The consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2012 and for year then ended comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries and its interests in jointly controlled entities together referred to as the Group.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Principal Activities and Business Review sections of the Directors Report on page 39.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, for further analysis refer to the Directors Report on page 42.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling GBP, the functional currency of the parent company, Informa plc.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 3.
Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Standards and interpretations adopted in the current year The following new standards, amendments and interpretations have been adopted in the current year: t IFRS 7 amended 2010 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Enhanced Derecognition Disclosure Requirements The adoption of these standards and interpretations has not led to any changes to the Groups accounting policies.
Standards and interpretations in issue, not yet adopted At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but have not yet come into effect: IAS 1 amended Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income endorsed by the EU IAS 12 amended 2010 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets endorsed by the EU IAS 19 revised 2011 Employee Benefits endorsed by the EU IAS 27 revised 2011 Separate Financial Statements endorsed by the EU IAS 28 revised 2011 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures endorsed by the EU IAS 32 amended Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities endorsed by the EU IFRS 9 Financial Instruments not endorsed by the EU IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements endorsed by the EU IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements endorsed by the EU IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities endorsed by the EU IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement endorsed by the EU Improvements to IFRSs 2012 not endorsed by the EU Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 69 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 1 GENERAL INFORMATION continued The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group, except for: t IFRS 9 is a new standard which enhances the ability of investors and other users of financial information to understand the accounting of financial assets and reduces complexity.
IFRS 9 uses a single approach to determine whether a financial asset is measured at amortised cost or fair value, replacing the many different rules in IAS 39.
Other components to the standard such as hedge accounting, will be issued in 2013.
This standard is effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2015 and therefore the Group has not commenced its evaluation of the impact on the Groups reported profit or net assets.
t IFRS 10 is a new standard which replaces the portion of IAS 27 that addresses the accounting for consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 10 includes a new definition of control, which determines which entities are consolidated.
This standard is effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2014.
The Group has evaluated the impact on its consolidation and concluded that IFRS 10 would currently have no impact.
However for any future acquisitions, the implications of IFRS 10 should be considered.
t IFRS 11 is a new standard which replaces IAS 31 and SIC 13.
Under IFRS 11 joint control is defined as the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement which exists only when the decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
IFRS 11 addresses only two forms of joint arrangements joint operations and joint ventures and removes the option to account for using proportionate consolidation.
Since the current accounting for Joint Ventures is by proportionate consolidation, the Group will consider in 2013 how it can change its system to equity accounting.
This change in policy will require a restatement of the comparative period as well.
t IFRS 13 is a new standard which provides guidance on the determination of fair value and introduces consistent requirements for disclosure on fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 applies to all transactions and balances financial or non-financial for which IFRSs require or permit fair value measurements, with the exception of share-based payment transactions accounted for under IFRS 2 Shared-based Payment and leasing transactions within the scope of IAS 17 Leases.
This standard is effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013.
The Group evaluated the impact on the Groups consolidation and concluded that the only item not covered within our existing IFRS disclosures, that is measured at fair value would be separately identified Intangibles acquired in a material business combination.
70 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc 2 BASIS OF PREPARATION The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
Adjusted results Management believes that adjusted results and adjusted earnings per share Note 15 provide additional useful information on underlying trends to shareholders.
These measures are used for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The term adjusted is not a defined term under IFRS and may not therefore be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements of profit.
The following charges credits were presented as adjusting items: 2012 2011 Notes m m Restructuring and reorganisation costs 8 9.9 15.2 Acquisition related costs 7 1.3 1.4 Amortisation of other intangible assets 17 134.4 137.9 Impairment European Conferences 16 80.0 Impairment Robbins Gioia 16 17 50.7 Impairment Other 17 1.3 3.6 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 7 1.6 2.9 Loss profit on disposal of businesses 20 27.5 0.1 Fair value gain on non-controlling interest 18 1.0 Excess interest on early repayment of syndicated loans 11 1.5 Interest on overdue tax 11 3.1 Early termination of cross currency swaps 12 4.5 250.4 207.3 Tax related to adjusting items 13 35.5 54.9 Tax provision release net of associated deferred tax charge 13 60.0 154.9 152.4 The principal adjustments made are in respect of: t restructuring and reorganisation costs the costs incurred by the Group in reorganising and integrating acquired businesses, non-recurring business restructuring and the closure or disposal of businesses: t amortisation of other intangible assets the Group continues to amortise other intangible assets.
The amortisation charge in respect of intangible software assets is included in the adjusted results.
The amortisation charge in respect of all remaining other intangible assets is excluded from the adjusted results as management does not see these charges as integral to underlying trading: t impairment the Group tests for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently when an indicator exists.
The impairment charge in respect of material acquisitions is individually disclosed.
The impairment charge for those other separately identified intangible assets has been linked with subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration of those acquisitions: t loss profit on disposal of businesses the loss profit on disposal includes the fair value of consideration less the net assets liabilities disposed, non-controlling interest and costs directly attributable with the disposal: t fair value gain on non-controlling interest the fair value gain is the re-measurement of our existing non-controlling interest when the Group increases its shareholding: Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 71 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 2 BASIS OF PREPARATION Adjusted results continued t excess interest on early repayment of syndicated loans capitalised facility fees are amortised over the loan periods but where syndicated loan facilities have been terminated early, the unamortised fees are immediately expensed.
This accelerated expense is not viewed as being part of the underlying results and is thus excluded from the adjusted results: and t early termination of cross currency swaps following the early termination of Euro cross currency swaps, the remaining gain deferred in equity is recycled to the Consolidated Income Statement as an adjusting item.
The tax related to adjusting items is the tax effect of the items above and in 2012 it also includes the effect of the reduction in the UK rate applicable for the purposes calculating deferred tax from 25% to 23%.
During 2012 the Group resolved a number of outstanding tax issues which result in the Group being able to make a substantial one-off adjustment to its tax provisions which is also shown as an adjusting item.
Significant exchange rates The following significant exchange rates versus GBP were applied during the year: Average rate Closing rate 2012 2011 2012 2011 USD 1.5898 1.6047 1.6175 1.5439 EUR 1.2308 1.1461 1.2265 1.1934 72 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc 3 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain assets and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted, all of which have been consistently applied, are set out below.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the accounts of the Company and all of its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are included in the consolidated financial statements from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of acquired subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by other members of the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expense are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interest in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity and consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination plus their share of changes in equity since that date.
Joint ventures: The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for by proportionate consolidation.
The Group combines its share of the joint ventures individual income and expenses, assets and liabilities and cash flows on a line-by-line basis with similar items in the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Group recognises the portion of gains or losses on the sale of assets by the Group to the joint venture that is attributable to the other ventures.
The Group does not recognise its share of profits or losses from the joint venture that result from the Groups purchase of assets from the joint venture until it re-sells the assets to an independent party.
However, a loss on the transaction is recognised immediately if the loss provides evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value of current assets, or an impairment loss.
Associates: Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investors share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes, and provisions for returns and cancellations.
Subscription income is deferred and recognised over the term of the subscription.
Sponsorship and exhibition income is deferred and recognised when the event is held.
Delegates income represents fees earned and is recognised when the event is held.
Copy sales revenue is recognised on the sale of the directory or publication.
Advertising revenue is recognised on issue of the publication.
Consulting and training revenues are recognised as services are delivered.
Where consultancy services are provided over a period of time, revenue is recognised using the stage of completion method when the outcome of the contract can be measured reliably.
The stage of completion is determined with regard to key milestones in the contract being attained and the percentage of services performed under the contract as a percentage of the total services to be performed.
Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 73 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 3 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Business combinations Business combinations from 1 January 2010: The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss.
Business combination prior to 1 January 2010: The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the aggregate of fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2004 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary companies and businesses is calculated as the excess of purchase consideration over the fair value of net identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition.
It is recognised as an asset at cost, assessed for impairment at least annually and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units, as defined by the Board for internal management purposes, expected to benefit from the combination.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently when there is an indication that it may be impaired.
Where an impairment test is performed a discounted cash flow analysis is carried out based on the cash flows of the cash generating unit compared with the carrying value of that goodwill.
Management estimate the discount rates as the risk affected cost of capital for the particular cash generating units.
If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Upon disposal, the attributable carrying value of goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are initially measured at cost.
For business combinations, cost is calculated based on the Groups valuation methodologies Note 18.
These assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis, which are as follows: Book lists 20 years Journal titles 20 40 years Database content and intellectual property 3 20 years Large scale events and exhibitions 3 20 years 74 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc Software which is not integral to a related item of hardware is included in intangible assets.
Capitalised internal-use software costs include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software, and payroll and payroll related costs for employees who are directly associated with, and who devote substantial time to, the project.
Capitalisation of these costs ceases no later than the point at which the project is substantially complete and ready for its internal purpose.
These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives which are deemed to be 3 10 years.
The expected useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually.
The Group does not have any intangible assets with indefinite lives excluding goodwill.
Property and equipment Property and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of property and equipment on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The rates of depreciation are as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold land and buildings Over life of the lease Equipment, fixtures and fittings 3 15 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the net sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Inventory Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and expenses incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less marketing and distribution costs expected to be incurred.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 75 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 3 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are retranslated at the rates ruling at that date.
These translation differences are disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the Consolidated Income Statement for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
The statements of financial position of foreign subsidiaries are translated into pounds sterling at the closing rates of exchange.
The results are translated at an average rate, recalculated for each month between that months closing rate and the equivalent for the preceding month.
Foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of opening net investments in foreign subsidiaries at the closing rate are taken directly to the translation reserve.
In addition, foreign exchange differences arising from retranslation of the foreign subsidiaries results from monthly average rate to closing rate are also taken directly to the Groups hedging and translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the financial year in which the operations are disposed of.
The translation movement on matched long-term foreign currency borrowings, qualifying as hedging instruments under IAS 39, are also taken directly to the hedging reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised at their fair value on the inception of the lease and depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease and the estimated useful economic lives of the assets.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Statement of Financial Position as a finance lease obligation.
Finance charges are allocated over the period of the lease in proportion to the capital amount outstanding and are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in equal annual amounts over the lease term.
Rental income from sub leasing property space is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease and is matched with the corresponding payments made under the head lease.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax nor accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated for all business combinations in respect of intangible assets and properties.
A deferred tax liability is recognised to the extent that the fair value of the assets for accounting purposes exceeds the value of those assets for tax purposes and will form part of the associated goodwill on acquisition.
76 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Consolidated Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Pension costs Certain Group companies operate defined contribution pension schemes for employees.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from the individual companies.
The pension cost charge associated with these schemes represents contributions payable and is charged as an expense when they fall due.
The Group also operates funded defined benefit schemes for employees.
The cost of providing these benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each reporting date.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent the benefits are vested, and otherwise are amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The current service cost and the recognised element of any past service cost are presented within operating profit.
The interest cost arising on the pension liability less the interest return on the scheme assets is presented within finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of the Consolidated Income Statement and in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The expected return on scheme assets reflects the estimate made by management of the long-term yields that will arise from the specific assets held within the pension scheme.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost and the fair value of any relevant scheme assets.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity-settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
The fair value of the Share Options and Long-Term Incentive Plan is measured using the Binomial or Monte Carlo model of valuation, which are considered to be the most appropriate valuation techniques.
The valuation takes into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
To assign a fair value to share awards granted under the Share Matching Plan where the proportion of the award released is dependent on the level of total shareholder return, the Monte Carlo Simulation methodology is considered the most appropriate.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will actually vest.
The estimate of vesting is reviewed annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
Financial assets Financial assets are recognised in the Groups Statement of Financial Position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are classified into the following categories: loans and receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and available-forsale investments.
The classification is determined by management upon initial recognition, and it is based on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts including all fees on points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for all debt instruments within the Group.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 77 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 3 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans and other receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible with a maturity of three months or less to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Cash Flow Statement.
Available-for-sale investments Listed and unlisted shares held by the Group that are traded in an active market are classified as being available-for-sale and are stated at fair value.
Fair values of listed securities are based on quoted market prices and the unlisted securities are based on cost.
Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the Consolidated Income Statement for the period.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is included in profit or loss for the period.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been negatively impacted.
For unlisted shares classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
For all other financial assets objective evidence of impairment could include: t significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or t default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or t it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.
For certain categories of financial assets, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period of 32 days 2011: 28 days, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with increased default risk on receivables.
A specific provision will also be raised for trade receivables when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments more than 90 days overdue are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of a provision account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the provision account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the provision account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the provision account are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
78 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Classification as debt or equity Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the Consolidated Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Finance costs Finance costs of debts are capitalised against the debt value on first drawdown of the debt and are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement using the effective interest rate method.
Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The derivative instruments utilised by the Group to hedge these exposures are primarily interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps.
The Group does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at each reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: t hedges of a change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities or firm commitments fair value hedges : t hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or t hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 79 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 3 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting continued Fair value hedge: Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the line of the Consolidated Income Statement relating to the hedged item.
Cash flow hedge: The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition of a financial asset or financial liability, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss in the same line of the Consolidated Income Statement as the recognised hedged item.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or nonfinancial liability.
Hedges of net investment in foreign operations: Hedges of net investment in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument in relation to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in the other comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Gains and losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve are reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item is disposed of.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement in the period.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in Note 31.
ESOP TRUST SHARES Own shares deducted in arriving at shareholders funds represent the cost of the Companys ordinary shares acquired by the Employee Share Option Plan ESOP trusts in connection with certain of the Groups employee share schemes.
PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Restructuring provisions are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to the affected parties.
80 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc 4 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 3, the Directors are required to make judgments, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
In addition to the judgment taken by management in selecting and applying the accounting policies set out above, the Directors have made the following judgments concerning the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
Valuation and asset lives of separately identifiable intangible assets In order to determine the value of the separately identifiable intangible assets on a business combination, management are required to make estimates when utilising the Groups valuation methodologies.
These methodologies include the use of discounted cash flows and revenue forecasts.
For significant acquisitions management have considered the advice of third party independent valuers in identifying and calculating the valuation of any intangible assets arising on acquisition.
Asset lives are estimated based on the nature of the intangible asset acquired and range between 3 and 40 years.
Valuation of share-based payments In order to determine the value of share-based payments, management are required to make an estimation of the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The expected volatility is determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price calculated over one, two and three years back from the date of grant.
The list of inputs used in the Binomial and Monte Carlo Simulation models to calculate the fair values are provided in Note 10.
Valuation of financial instruments at fair value Management have made a number of assumptions with regards to the models used to value financial instruments at their fair value at year end.
Valuation techniques commonly used by market practitioners are applied.
Note 31 details the methods used to value the primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups borrowing requirements and the derivative financial instruments held to manage the interest rate profile.
For derivative financial instruments, assumptions are made based on quoted market rates adjusted for specific features of the instrument.
Other financial instruments are valued using a discounted cash flow analysis based on assumptions supported, where possible, by observable market prices or rates.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets There are a number of assumptions management have considered in performing impairment reviews of goodwill and intangible assets, as determining whether goodwill or intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the directors to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Note 16 details the assumptions that have been applied.
Pension assumptions There are a number of assumptions management have considered on the advice of actuaries which have an impact on the results of the valuation of the pension scheme liabilities at year end.
The most significant assumptions are those relating to the discount rate of return on investments and the rates of increase in salaries and pensions.
Note 37 details the assumptions which have been adopted.
Deferred tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgment in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, judgment is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised with consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable income.
Provisions Provisions have been made for onerous leases, dilapidations and restructuring.
These provisions are estimates and the actual costs and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
Any difference between expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period when such determination is made.
Details of the Groups provisions are set out in Note 28.
Contingent consideration Contingent consideration relating to acquisitions has been included based on management estimates of the most likely outcome Note 18.
However any subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 81 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 5 REVENUE An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2012 2011 m m Subscriptions 468.5 464.1 Delegates 291.1 319.6 Copy sales 210.4 210.1 Exhibition 145.4 134.0 Sponsorship 63.8 63.2 Consulting 26.2 55.2 Advertising 27.1 29.1 Total revenue 1,232.5 1,275.3 82 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc 6 BUSINESS SEGMENTS Business segments Management has identified reportable segments based on financial information used by the Board of Directors in allocating resources and making strategic decisions.
We consider the Chief Operating Decision Maker to be the Executive Directors.
The Groups three identified reportable segments under IFRS 8 are therefore as follows: Academic Information AI This division, which includes the Taylor & Francis publishing business, provides a portfolio of online and print publications, primarily for academic users across the spectrum of Science, Technology, Humanities and Social Sciences.
Professional and Commercial Information PCI This division, which includes Informa Business Information and Informa Financial Information provides information, across a range of formats and on a global basis, to a variety of sectors including Medical, Pharmaceutical, Financial, Law, Commerce, Commodities, Maritime and Telecoms.
Events and Training The Events and Training business consists of trade shows and exhibitions, large and small conferences and training courses.
Segment revenue and results 31 December 2012 Events and AI PCI Training Total m m m m Revenue Note 5 340.3 356.6 535.6 1,232.5 Adjusted operating profit 126.1 120.7 102.9 349.7 Restructuring and reorganisation costs Note 8 0.9 4.2 4.8 9.9 Acquisition related costs Note 2 0.3 1.0 1.3 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration Note 2 1.3 0.3 1.6 1 Intangible asset amortisation Note 17 27.2 47.7 59.5 134.4 Impairment Note 2 1.1 80.2 81.3 Operating profit loss 98.0 68.7 42.3 124.4 Loss on disposal of businesses 27.5 Fair value gain on non-controlling interest 1.0 Finance costs Note 11 41.4 Investment income Note 12 10.5 Profit before tax 67.0 1 Excludes software amortisation.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 83 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 6 BUSINESS SEGMENTS continued Segment revenue and results 31 December 2011 Events and AI PCI Training Total m m m m Revenue Note 5 323.6 370.5 581.2 1,275.3 Adjusted operating profit 116.2 114.0 106.0 336.2 Restructuring and reorganisation costs Note 8 1.3 10.4 3.5 15.2 Acquisition related costs Note 2 0.1 0.2 1.1 1.4 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration Note 2 2.6 0.3 2.9 1 Intangible asset amortisation Note 17 27.9 47.9 62.1 137.9 Impairment Note 2 2.4 51.9 54.3 Operating profit loss 86.9 55.7 12.3 130.3 Profit on disposal of business 0.1 Finance costs Note 11 47.6 Investment income Note 12 5.8 Profit before tax 88.6 1 Excludes software amortisation.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in Note 3.
Adjusted operating result by operating segment is the measure reported to the Groups Chief Executive for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance.
Finance costs and investment income are not allocated to segments, as this type of activity is driven by the central treasury function, which manages the cash positions of the Group.
Segment assets 2012 2011 m m AI 870.7 939.1 PCI 1,151.9 1,056.0 Events and Training 857.9 1,044.4 Total segment assets 2,880.5 3,039.5 Unallocated assets 53.6 36.2 Total assets 2,934.1 3,075.7 The movements in the year primarily relate to Goodwill see Note 16.
For the purpose of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments, management monitors the tangible, intangible and financial assets attributable to each segment.
All assets are allocated to reportable segments except for corporate balances, including taxation current and deferred.
Assets used jointly by reportable segments are allocated on the basis of the revenues earned by individual reportable segment.
84 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc The Groups revenues from its major products and services were as follows: 2012 2011 m m AI Subscriptions 182.7 176.6 Copy sales 157.6 147.0 Total AI 340.3 323.6 PCI Subscriptions 285.8 287.5 Copy sales 52.8 63.1 Advertising 18.0 19.9 Total PCI 356.6 370.5 Events and Training Delegates 291.1 319.6 Exhibition 145.4 134.0 Sponsorship 63.8 63.2 Consulting 26.2 55.2 Advertising 9.1 9.2 Total Events and Training 535.6 581.2 Total revenue 1,232.5 1,275.3 Information about major customers The Groups revenue by location of customer and information about its segment assets by geographical location are detailed below: Revenue Segment assets 2012 2011 2012 2011 Geographical information m m m m United Kingdom 151.2 172.7 1,320.3 1,325.6 North America 434.9 446.7 1,087.8 1,053.9 Continental Europe 287.9 317.7 185.8 316.0 Rest of World 358.5 338.2 340.2 380.2  No individual customer amounts to more than 10% of the Groups revenue.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 85 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 7 NET OPERATING EXPENSES Operating profit has been arrived at after charging crediting : Adjusted Adjusting Statutory Adjusted Adjusting Statutory results items results results items results 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 Notes m m m m m m Cost of sales 393.4 393.4 446.3 446.3 Staff costs excluding redundancy costs 9 364.7 364.7 355.5 355.5 Amortisation of other intangible assets 17 14.5 134.4 148.9 13.1 137.9 151.0 Depreciation 217.07.06.76.7 Impairment 281.381.354.354.3 Net foreign exchange loss 1.8 1.8 0.8 0.8 Auditors remuneration for audit services see below 1.1 1.1 1.3 1.3 Operating lease expenses Land and buildings 35 21.2 21.2 24.8 24.8 Other 35 1.1 1.1 1.2 1.2 Restructuring and reorganisation costs 8 9.9 9.9 15.2 15.2 Acquisition related costs 2 1.3 1.3 1.4 1.4 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 2 1.6 1.6 2.9 2.9 Other operating expenses 78.0 78.0 89.4 89.4 Total net operating expenses 882.8 225.3 1,108.1 939.1 205.9 1,145.0 Amounts payable to the auditor, Deloitte LLP and their associates by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings is provided below: 2012 2011 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual financial statements 0.7 0.8 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.4 0.5 Total audit fees 1.1 1.3 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for non-audit services comprises: Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Other services 0.1 0.1 Total non-audit fees 0.2 0.2 A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 50 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
86 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc 8 RESTRUCTURING AND REORGANISATION COSTS 2012 2011 m m Reorganisation costs 2.1 2.8 Redundancy costs 6.8 11.9 Vacant property provisions 1.0 0.5 9.9 15.2 9 STAFF NUMBERS AND COSTS The monthly average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: Number of employees 2012 2011 AI 1,618 1,581 PCI 2,755 3,025 Events and Training 3,158 3,669 7,531 8,275 Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 2012 2011 m m Wages and salaries 319.4 312.6 Social security costs 32.2 30.8 Pension costs charged to operating profit Note 37 9.3 9.1 Share-based payment Note 10 3.8 3.0 Staff costs excluding redundancy costs 364.7 355.5 Redundancy costs Note 8 6.8 11.9 371.5 367.4 The remuneration of Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Note 38.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 61.
2012 2011 m m Short-term employee benefits 3.5 3.5 Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.4 Share incentive gains and payments 1.4 5.3 3.9 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 87 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 10 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group share options and Long-Term Incentive Plans LTIPs provide for a grant price equal to the average quoted market price of the Groups shares on the date of grant.
The vesting period is generally three years.
The options expire if they remain unexercised after the exercise period has lapsed.
Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest, unless they meet certain eligibility criteria.
The Group recognised total expenses of 3.8m 2011: 3.0m related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in the year ended 31 December 2012.
Share options The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows: 2012 2011 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Options price p Options price p Outstanding at the beginning of the year 230,166 228.40 496,998 286.99 Forfeited lapsed during the year 6,657 212.32 108,699 436.40 Exercised during the year 223,509 228.88 158,133 269.56 Outstanding at the end of the year 230,166 228.40 Exercisable at the end of the year 230,166 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 228.88p 2011: 269.56p.
There were no options outstanding at 31 December 2012 Note 32.
Inputs used to calculate those fair values and the method of calculation are set out in the following tables: Expected Estimated Share Exercise Expected life Risk free Dividend Date of grant fair value price price volatility years rate yield 1 4 March 2004 1.18 3.76 3.73 32.3% 5.0 4.8% 2.0% 22 March 2004 10 May 1.08 3.49 3.41 32.8% 4.9 4.6% 2.0% 1 2004 Executive adjusted 22 March 2004 10 May 0.93 3.49 3.41 32.8% 3.5 4.2% 2.0% 1 2004 Employee adjusted 1 15 September 2004 1.16 3.71 3.70 30.6% 5.0 5.0% 2.0% 1 Valued using the Binomial model of valuation.
Adjusted for the business combination in 2004 of Taylor & Francis Group plc and Informa Group plc, and in 2005 for a rights issue.
2 From 1 January of year in which grant made.
3 50% split of total awards granted.
In order to satisfy the share awards granted under Long-Term Incentive Plan, the share capital would be increased by up to 3,810,629 shares.
The company is planning to issue additional share capital to satisfy the awards although if circumstances change it may instead buy the shares as needed on the open market.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over one, two and three years back from the date of grant.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 89 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 11 FINANCE COSTS 2012 2011 Notes m m Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 33.8 41.8 Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 37 4.2 4.3 Total interest expense 38.0 46.1 Cash flow hedge ineffectiveness loss 0.3 Excess interest on early repayment of syndicated loans 2 1.5 Interest on overdue tax 2 3.1 41.4 47.6 12 INVESTMENT INCOME 2012 2011 Notes m m Loans and receivables: Interest income on bank deposits 1.0 1.4 Interest income on non-current receivables 24 1.6 Expected return on pension scheme assets 37 3.4 4.4 Early termination of cross currency swaps 2 4.5 10.5 5.8 90 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc 13 TAXATION The tax credit charge comprises: 2012 2011 Notes m m Current tax: Current year 52.4 44.5 Tax provision release 61.5 Interest on overdue tax reclassified to Finance costs 11 3.1 Deferred tax: Current year 29 8.5 18.9 Credit arising from UK corporation tax rate change 29 4.5 6.0 Exceptional deferred tax charge credit in respect of prior years 29 1.5 5.3 Total tax credit charge on profit on ordinary activities 23.7 14.3 The tax shown as an adjusting item within the Consolidated Income Statement relates to the following: Gross Tax Gross Tax 2012 2012 2011 2011 m m m m Restructuring and reorganisation costs Note 8 9.9 2.6 15.2 4.4 Acquisition related costs Note 2 1.3 1.4 Amortisation of other intangible assets Note 17 134.4 26.7 137.9 35.7 Impairment Note 2 81.3 54.3 3.1 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration Note 2 1.6 2.9 Loss profit on disposal of business Note 20 27.5 0.3 0.1 Fair value gain on non-controlling interest Note 2 1.0 Excess interest on early repayment of syndicated loans Note 11 1.5 0.4 Interest on overdue tax reclassified to Finance costs Note 11 3.1 3.1 Early termination of cross currency swap Note 12 4.5 1.1 Deferred tax credit arising from UK corporation tax rate change Note 29 4.5 6.0 Tax provision release net of associated deferred tax charge Note 2 60.0 5.3 250.4 95.5 207.3 54.9 The current and deferred tax is calculated on the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation is calculated on each jurisdiction based on the prevailing rates of that jurisdiction.
The total tax credit charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: 2012 2011 m % m % Profit before tax 67.0 88.6 Tax charge at weighted average rate 11.4 17.0 16.8 19.0 Permanent differences 22.9 34.2 3.7 4.1 Losses in certain jurisdictions that have not been recognised 6.5 9.7 5.1 5.8 Deferred tax credit arising from UK corporation tax rate change 4.5 6.7 6.0 6.8 Tax provision release net of associated deferred tax charge 60.0 89.6 5.3 6.0 Tax credit charge and effective rate for the year 23.7 35.4 14.3 16.1 The weighted average tax rates for 2011 and 2012 have been adjusted for the impairments of Robbins Gioia and European Conferences respectively which are not allowable for tax purposes.
Inclusion of these amounts would unduly distort the weighted average tax rate reported for each period.
In addition to the income tax credit charge to the Consolidated Income Statement, a tax credit of 0.4m 2011: charge of 3.6m all of which relates to deferred tax Note 29 has been recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income during the year.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 91 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 14 DIVIDENDS 2012 2011 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 9.50p per share 57.1 First interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 5.00p per share 30.1 Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 11.80p per share 71.1 First interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 6.00p per share 36.2 107.3 87.2 Proposed second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 12.50p per share 2011: 11.80p per share 75.3 70.9 As at 31 December 2012 0.1m 2011: 0.2m of dividends are still to be paid.
Holders of 108,422 2011: 70,348 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each have waived their rights to receive dividends.
Pursuant to the Dividend Access Plan DAP arrangements put in place in 2009 as part of the Scheme of Arrangement, shareholders in the Company are able to elect to receive their dividends from a UK source a DAP election.
Shareholders who i held 100,000 or fewer shares on the date of admission of the Companys shares to the London Stock Exchange and ii in the case of shareholders who did not own the shares at that time, on the first dividend record date after they become shareholders in the Company, unless they elect otherwise, are deemed to have elected to receive their dividends under the DAP arrangements.
Shareholders who hold more than 100,000 shares and who wish to receive their dividends from a UK source must make a DAP election.
All elections remain in force indefinitely unless revoked.
Unless shareholders have made a DAP election, or are deemed to have made a DAP election, dividends will be received directly from the Company, domiciled in Switzerland, and will be taxed accordingly.
92 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc 15 EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic The basic earnings per share calculation is based on a profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent of 90.7m 2011:75.4m.
This profit on ordinary activities after taxation is divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue less those non-vested shares held by employee share ownership trusts which is 602,378,791 2011: 601,047,454.
Diluted The diluted earnings per share calculation is based on the basic earnings per share calculation above except that the weighted average number of shares includes all potentially dilutive options granted by the reporting date as if those options had been exercised on the first day of the accounting period or the date of the grant, if later, giving a weighted average of 603,021,026 2011: 602,928,726.
The table below sets out the adjustment in respect of diluted potential ordinary shares: 2012 2011 Weighted average number of shares used in basic earnings per share calculation 602,378,791 601,047,454 Effect of dilutive share options 642,235 1,881,272 Weighted average number of shares used in diluted earnings per share calculation 603,021,026 602,928,726 Adjusted earnings per share The basic and diluted adjusted earnings per share calculations have been made to allow shareholders to gain a further understanding of the trading performance of the Group.
They are based on the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations above except that profits are based on continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders and are adjusted for items that are not perceived by management to be part of the underlying trends in the business, and the tax effect of those adjusting items, as follows: 2012 2011 m m Profit for the year 90.7 74.3 Non-controlling interest 1.1 Adjusting items net of attributable taxation Note 2 154.9 152.4 Adjusted profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 245.6 227.8 Earnings per share: Adjusted basic p 40.8 37.9 Adjusted diluted p 40.7 37.8 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 93 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 16 GOODWILL m Cost At 1 January 2011 1,774.6 Additions in the year 65.2 Disposals Note 20 0.2 Exchange differences 11.1 At 1 January 2012 1,828.5 Additions in the year 109.0 Disposals Note 20 65.4 Exchange differences 44.7 At 31 December 2012 1,827.4 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2011 20.9 Impairment losses for the year Note 2 43.2 Exchange differences 0.4 At 1 January 2012 63.7 Impairment losses for the year Note 2 80.0 Disposals Note 20 43.1 Exchange differences 0.3 At 31 December 2012 100.9 Carrying amount At 31 December 2012 1,726.5 At 31 December 2011 1,764.8 Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill recorded in the major groups of cash generating units is set out below: 2012 2011 m m AI 355.0 420.6 PCI 836.7 711.9 Events and Training 534.8 632.3 1,726.5 1,764.8 The movements in carrying amount relate primarily to acquisitions, disposals, impairment, foreign exchange movements and other internal reclassifications.
The Group assesses the impairment of Goodwill and Intangible assets annually at year end, and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions in the value in use are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to cash flows during the period.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs.
94 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc The pre-tax discount rates applied are 9.5% for AI and PCI 2011: 9.5% and 10.5% for the Events and Training businesses 2011:10.5%.
There has been no change to the discount rate since the prior year, which is consistent with the fact that there has been no significant change in the markets in which the Group operates.
Estimated future cash flows are determined by reference to latest budgets and forecasts for the next five years approved by management, after which a long term perpetuity growth rate is applied.
The most recent financial budgets approved by the Board of Directors have been prepared after considering the current economic environment in each of our markets.
The estimates of future cash flows are consistent with past experience adjusted for managements estimates of future performance.
Short-term average growth rates used for the five year forecasts vary between -4% and 13.4% 2011: 2.8% and 25%.
Long-term average growth rates are 2% for AI and PCI 2011: 2% and 3% for Events and Training 2011: 3%.
The rates do not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
The challenging European economic climate has impacted our European Conferences business performance during the year.
This has resulted in indicators of impairment for the European Conferences CGU, which is included in the Events and Training Segment.
Updated five year projections have been produced for the CGU, which have resulted in an impairment of the carrying value of Goodwill by 80.0m.
The CGUs which had the lowest level of headroom or potential impairment in this analysis related to the Events and Training businesses.
Management has undertaken sensitivity analysis taking into consideration the impact on key impairment test assumptions arising from a range of possible future trading and economic scenarios.
The scenarios have been performed separately for each CGU with the sensitivities summarised as follows: t an increase in the pre-tax discount rate by 1%: t a decrease of 1% of AI and PCI and 2% for Events and Training on forecast operating profits over years 25: and t a decrease in the terminal growth rate by 1% for all CGUs.
The sensitivity analysis shows that applying all of the above criteria, an impairment of 10.7m would arise for European Conferences a CGU included in Events and Training.
The carrying value of Goodwill and Intangible assets in the European Conferences business was 52.2m as at 31 December 2012.
2 13.8m 2011: 12.6m additions to Intangible software assets represents cash paid.
3 Of the 4.5m 2011: 8.1m additions to Database content and intellectual property, 4.5m 2011: 4.0m represents product development.
4 Of the 36.7m 2011: 45.8m arising on acquisitions in the year, 0.2m 2011: 0.6m relates to prior year acquisitions.
Intangible software assets include a gross carrying amount of 101.2m 2011: 90.9m and accumulated amortisation of 46.0m 2011: 34.8m which relates to software that has been internally generated.
Intangible database content and intellectual property include a gross carrying amount of 26.5m 2011: 22.5m and accumulated amortisation of 8.4m 2011: 4.7m which relates to product development that has been internally generated.
The Group does not have any of its other intangible assets pledged as security over bank loans.
As a consequence of reducing the contingent consideration for the recent acquisitions by 1.6m see Note 2, an impairment charge of 1.1m in Database Content and Intellectual Property and 0.2m in Exhibitions and Conferences has also been recognised.
The re-measurement of the contingent consideration and impairment has been presented as adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Further information is disclosed in Note 2.
96 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc 18 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Cash paid on acquisition net of cash acquired 2012 2011 m m Current period acquisitions1 Fertecon Limited 15.3 Sagient Research Systems, Inc. 12.4 Informa Canada Inc. formerly MMPI Canada Inc. 32.7 Zephyr Associates, Inc. 29.1 Other 17.2 Prior year acquisitions 2011 acquisitions: Brazil Trade Shows Partners Participacoes S. A.
17.2 Other 0.4 13.0 2010 acquisitions: EuroMediCom SAS 3.6 1.8 CPDcast.
com Limited 0.9 Emerging Portfolio Fund Research Inc. 6.2 Australian Exhibitions and Conferences Group 0.7 Other 0.7 1.0 2009 acquisitions 0.4 121.5 83.4 1 These acquisitions are covered by the Current years business combinations tables in this note.
Where goodwill is provisional, a best estimate of fair value has been made but these will be reviewed and adjusted in the next year should it be necessary.
All acquisitions were paid for in cash including deferred and contingent consideration and in all acquisitions full control over the business has been obtained by acquiring 100% of the ordinary issued share capital, with the exception of the acquisition of Primal Pictures Limited where we acquired the remaining 89.67% of the ordinary issued share capital to bring the Groups shareholding to 100%.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 97 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 18 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued Business combinations made in 2012 Fertecon Limited On 1 February 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Fertecon Limited.
The Company is a leading provider of fertiliser commodities pricing data and market intelligence.
The Company will form part of the PCI segment.
The net cash outflow was 15.3m comprising of cash consideration of 18.6m less net cash acquired of 3.3m.
The disclosure below provides the net assets acquired on a combined basis with the related fair value adjustments.
Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net assets at date of acquisition m m m Intangible assets 5.7 5.7 Trade and other receivables 0.6 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents 3.3 3.3 Trade and other payables 0.7 0.7 Deferred income 1.9 1.9 Deferred tax liabilities 1.3 1.3 Net assets acquired 1.3 4.4 5.7 Provisional goodwill 15.0 Total consideration 20.7 Less: contingent consideration 2.1 Less: net cash acquired 3.3 Net cash outflow 15.3 Goodwill, being the excess of the consideration over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, represents benefits which do not qualify for recognition as intangible assets.
The fair value of the acquired identifiable assets and liabilities assumed are provisional pending receipt of final valuations.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition are as follows: m Database 1.6 Customer relationships 4.1 Total intangible assets 5.7 Acquisition related costs included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31December2012 amounted to 0.1m.
The business contributed 1.4m to profit after tax and 3.3m to revenue of the Group for the period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2012.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, it would have contributed 1.5m to profit after tax and 3.6m to revenue of the Group.
98 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc Sagient Research Systems, Inc. On 31 May 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Sagient Research Systems, Inc.
The Company primarily provides data and analysis to pharmaceutical and financial services companies, through its three main products, Placement Tracker, Biomed Tracker and Catalyst Tracker.
The net cash outflow was 12.4m comprising of cash consideration of 12.5m less net cash acquired of 0.1m.
The disclosure below provides the net liabilities assets acquired on a combined basis with the related fair value adjustments.
Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net liabilities assets at date of acquisition m m m Intangible assets 3.2 3.2 Property and equipment 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax asset 1.0 1.0 Trade and other receivables 0.8 0.8 Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 0.1 Trade and other payables 0.3 0.3 Loan payable 0.3 0.3 Deferred income 1.4 1.4 Deferred tax liabilities 0.1 1.3 1.4 Net liabilities assets acquired 0.1 1.9 1.8 Provisional goodwill 12.3 Total consideration 14.1 Less: contingent consideration 1.6 Less: net cash acquired 0.1 Net cash outflow 12.4 Goodwill, being the excess of the consideration over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, represents benefits which do not qualify for recognition as intangible assets.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition are as follows: m Database 1.4 Customer relationships 1.4 Non-compete agreements 0.4 Total intangible assets 3.2 No acquisition related costs were incurred for this acquisition.
The business contributed 0.5m to profit after tax and 2.0m to revenue of the Group for the period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2012.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, it would have contributed 0.5m to profit after tax and 3.4m to revenue of the Group.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 99 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 18 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Business combinations made in 2012 continued Informa Canada Inc. formerly MMPI Canada Inc. On 3 July 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Informa Canada Inc. formerly MMPI Canada Inc..
The Company owns and operates a portfolio of annual exhibitions and conferences across Canada in the construction, real estate and furnishing industries.
The Company will form part of the Events and Training segment.
The net cash outflow was 32.7m comprising of cash consideration of 34.3m less net cash acquired of 1.6m.
Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net liabilities assets at date of acquisition m m m Intangible assets 9.6 9.6 Property and equipment 0.4 0.4 Trade and other receivables 6.6 6.6 Cash and cash equivalents 1.6 1.6 Trade and other payables 0.7 0.7 Deferred income 8.8 8.8 Deferred tax liabilities 3.8 3.8 Net liabilities assets acquired 0.9 5.8 4.9 Provisional goodwill 29.4 Total consideration 34.3 Less: net cash acquired 1.6 Net cash outflow 32.7 Goodwill, being the excess of the consideration over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, represents benefits which do not qualify for recognition as intangible assets.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition are as follows: m Trademark 3.7 Customer relationships 4.5 Non-compete agreements 1.4 Total intangible assets 9.6 Acquisition related costs included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31December2012 amounted to 0.3m.
The business contributed 0.7m to profit after tax and 11.0m to revenue of the Group for the period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2012.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, it would have contributed 1.2m to profit after tax and 17.8m to revenue of the Group.
100 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc Zephyr Associates, Inc. On 1 October 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Zephyr Associates, Inc.
The Company provides investment analysis software used by financial professionals worldwide.
The net cash outflow was 29.1m comprising of cash consideration of 29.3m less net cash acquired of 0.2m.
The disclosure below provides the net liabilities acquired on a combined basis with the related fair value adjustments.
Book Fair value Fair value value adjustments m m Net liabilities at date of acquisition m Intangible assets 6.4 6.4 Intangible software assets 0.5 0.5 Property and equipment 0.4 0.4 Trade and other receivables 1.3 1.3 Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 0.2 Trade and other payables 3.3 3.3 Loan payable 7.7 7.7 Deferred income 3.7 3.7 Deferred tax liabilities 2.3 2.6 4.9 Net liabilities acquired 8.2 2.6 10.8 Provisional goodwill 40.1 Total consideration 29.3 Less: net cash acquired 0.2 Net cash outflow 29.1 Goodwill, being the excess of the consideration over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, represents benefits which do not qualify for recognition as intangible assets.
No acquisition related costs were incurred for this acquisition.
The business contributed 1.0m to profit after tax and 3.1m to revenue of the Group for the period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2012.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, it would have contributed 2.6m to profit after tax and 12.2m to revenue of the Group.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 101 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 18 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Business combinations made in 2012 continued Other business combinations The Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of ICANBUY Corp. 100% of the issued share capital of Keynote World Media Limited and its wholly owned subsidiary, Point Zero Media Limited, 100% of the issued share capital of Comsys Events Limited and 89.67% of the issued share capital of Primal Pictures Limited.
The net cash outflow was 16.0m comprising of cash consideration of 17.5m less net cash acquired of 1.5m.
Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net assets at date of acquisition m m m Intangible assets 11.6 11.6 Intangible software assets 0.1 0.1 Property and equipment 0.1 0.1 Trade and other receivables 1.5 1.5 Cash and cash equivalents 1.5 1.5 Deferred tax asset 0.2 0.2 Trade and other payables 0.5 0.5 Deferred income 1.4 1.4 Deferred tax liabilities 3.3 3.3 Net assets acquired 1.5 8.3 9.8 Fair value gain on non-controlling interest 1.0 Provisional goodwill 12.2 Total consideration 21.0 Less: deferred consideration 0.7 Less: contingent consideration 2.8 Less: net cash acquired 1.5 Net cash outflow 16.0 Goodwill, being the excess of the consideration over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, represents benefits which do not qualify for recognition as intangible assets.
The fair value gain on non-controlling interests is the re-measurement of the Groups previous shareholding in Primal Pictures Limited on acquiring its remaining shares in the year.
During 2012, deferred and contingent consideration of 1.2m was paid.
Acquisition related costs included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31December2012 amounted to 0.2m.
The above acquisitions contributed 1.1m to profit after tax and 6.8m to revenue of the Group for the period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2012.
If the above acquisitions had been completed on the first day of the financial year, they would have contributed 0.7m to profit after tax and 9.2m to revenue of the Group.
102 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc Business combinations made in 2011 Brazil Trade Shows Partners Participacoes S. A.
On 31 May 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Brazil Trade Shows Partners Participacoes S. A. and its wholly owned subsidiary BTS Feiras Eventos e Editora LTDA.
The Company organises trade shows in the food and beverage services, furniture manufacturing and franchising sectors.
The net cash outflow was 50.7m comprising of cash consideration of 56.3m less net cash acquired of 5.6m.
Fair Book Fair value adjustments value value m m m Net assets at date of acquisition Intangible assets 17.1 6.5 23.6 Property and equipment 0.3 0.3 Deferred tax asset 3.3 3.3 Trade and other receivables 7.7 7.7 Cash and cash equivalents 5.6 5.6 Trade and other payables 4.0 4.0 External loans payable 4.3 4.3 Deferred income 13.2 13.2 Net assets 12.5 3.2 15.7 Provisional goodwill 46.8 Total consideration 62.5 Less: deferred consideration 6.2 Less: net cash acquired 5.6 Net cash outflow 50.7 The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition is as follows: 2011 m Trademarks 17.0 Customer relationships 5.7 Non-compete agreements 0.9 Total intangible assets 23.6 No deferred tax liability arises on the initial recognition of intangible assets because shortly after the acquisition the Company was merged with the acquiring vehicle and as a consequence, tax deductions are available on the Companys intangible assets, including goodwill.
During 2012, deferred consideration of 3.0m was paid.
The remaining deferred consideration of 3.2m is payable within one year.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 103 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 18 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Business combinations made in 2011 continued Ibratexpo Feiras E Eventos LTDA.
On 29 April 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Ibratexpo Feiras E Eventos LTDA.
The Company operates an annual print exhibition with related magazines.
The net cash outflow and cash consideration was 12.2m.
The disclosure below provides the net liabilities acquired with the related fair value adjustments.
Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net assets at date of acquisition m m m Intangible assets 7.7 7.7 Trade and other receivables 0.7 0.7 Trade and other payables 0.2 0.2 Deferred income 2.5 2.5 Net liabilities assets 2.0 7.7 5.7 Provisional goodwill 11.5 Total consideration 17.2 Less: deferred consideration 1.2 Less: contingent consideration 3.8 Net cash outflow 12.2 The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition is as follows: 2011 m Trademarks 3.2 Customer relationships 2.6 Non-compete agreements 1.9 Total intangible assets 7.7 No deferred tax liability arises on the initial recognition of intangible assets because shortly after the acquisition the Company was merged with the acquiring vehicle and as a consequence, tax deductions are available on the Companys intangible assets, including goodwill.
During 2011, the deferred and contingent consideration of 5.0m was paid, and therefore there was no activity in 2012.
104 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc Other business combinations made in 2011 The Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Hamsard 2966 Limited and its wholly owned subsidiary Earthscan Limited.
The Group also acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Strategy 2 Results Pte Limited: 100% of the issued share capital of International Trade Exhibition Company France S. A. S. and its wholly owned subsidiary ITEC Edition SARL: 50.1% of China Medical Data Services Limited and its wholly owned subsidiary Asia Gateway Healthcare Information Technology Beijing Co. Ltd: and 100% of the issued share capital of Quartz Publishing and Exhibitions Limited and its 50% shareholding in Independent Materials Handling Exhibitions Limited.
The net cash outflow of 12.6m includes cash consideration of 15.1m, less cash acquired of 2.5m.
Fair value Fair Book value adjustments value Net assets at date of acquisition m m m Intangible assets 1.0 13.0 14.0 Property and equipment 0.1 0.1 Inventories 0.2 0.2 Trade and other receivables 4.1 0.1 4.0 Cash and cash equivalents 2.5 2.5 Trade and other payables 2.9 0.2 3.1 Deferred income 2.3 2.3 Deferred tax liabilities 3.7 3.7 Net assets 2.5 9.2 11.7 Provisional goodwill 5.8 Total consideration 17.5 Less: contingent consideration 2.4 Less: net cash acquired 2.5 Net cash outflow 12.6 During 2011, there was a re-measurement of the contingent consideration resulting in a decrease of 1.2m.
During 2011, contingent consideration of 0.4m was paid and a further 0.4m was paid in 2012.
The remaining 0.4m contingent consideration is payable in the next 2 years.
Other business combinations made in 2010 In 2010, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Emerging Portfolio Fund Research Inc. the EuroMediCom SAS business and 100% of the issued share capital of CPDcast.
During 2012, deferred and contingent consideration of 6.2m, 3.6m and 0.9m were paid for Emerging Portfolio Fund Research Inc. EuroMediCom SAS and CPDcast.
The remaining 1.3m contingent consideration for these acquisitions is payable within one year.
During 2012, further payments totalling 0.7m were made for the other acquisitions made in 2010.
The remaining 0.2m contingent consideration for these acquisitions is payable within one year.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 105 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 19 INTEREST IN JOINT VENTURES The principal joint ventures at 31 December 2012 are as follows: Country of Class of Share Type of incorporation shares holding Accounting Company Segment business and operation held interest year end Lloyds Maritime Information PCI Business England Ordinary 50% 31 December Services Limited information and Wales SIAL Brasil Feiras Events and Event Brazil Ordinary 49% 31 December Professionais LTDA Training organisation Independent Materials Events and Event England Ordinary 50% 31 December Handling Exhibitions Limited Training organisation and Wales The following represent the aggregate assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the Groups joint ventures: 2012 2011 m m Non-current assets 0.1 Current assets 4.2 5.0 Current liabilities 3.2 4.3 Income 4.6 4.1 Expenses 4.5 4.2 106 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc 20 DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARY AND OTHER ASSETS Disposals made in 2012 During the year, the Group disposed of its 100% shareholdings in the Robbins Gioia business and Excellence Data Research Private Limited and its 50.1% shareholding in China Medical Data Services Limited and its wholly owned subsidiary Asia Gateway Healthcare Information Technology Beijing Co. Ltd.
The Group also disposed of its European Conferences businesses in Austria, Hungary and the Czech Republic, the business of Informa Virtual Business Communications GmbH, as well as three small Exhibitions for total consideration of 13.1m.
A loss on disposal of 27.5m, including directly attributable costs of 1.0m, has been recognised within adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The disclosure below sets out the aggregate effect of the disposals on the Groups assets and liabilities.
m Goodwill 22.3 Other intangible assets excluding software assets 9.9 Property and equipment 1.7 Trade and other receivables 10.4 Cash and cash equivalents 9.1 Deferred tax asset 0.1 Trade and other payables 13.3 Deferred income 0.7 Deferred tax liabilities 1.6 Net assets disposed 37.9 Non-controlling interest 1.7 Costs directly attributable with the disposal 1.0 Loss on disposal 27.5 Total consideration 13.1 Satisfied by: Cash and cash equivalents 3.0 Deferred consideration Note 24 10.1 Net cash outflow arising on disposal: Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 3.0 Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of 9.1 Less: costs directly attributable with the disposal 1.0 7.1 Disposals made in 2011 On 23 June 2011, the Group disposed of its shareholdings in Nicholas Publishing International FZ-LLC, a Publishing company which creates magazines for specific market segments and audiences.
Upon completion, proceeds of 0.6m were received, resulting in a profit on disposal of 0.1m.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 107 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 21 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Freehold Leasehold Equipment land and land and fixtures buildings buildings and fittings Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2011 2.4 11.7 63.1 77.2 1 Additions 1.6 6.1 7.7 Reclassification 0.1 0.3 0.4 Disposals 1.1 15.7 16.8 Exchange differences 0.4 0.4 At 1 January 2012 2.4 12.3 53.4 68.1 1 Additions 2.7 5.3 8.0 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.3 0.7 1.0 Disposals 2.5 15.3 17.8 Exchange differences 0.3 1.5 1.8 At 31 December 2012 2.4 12.5 42.6 57.5 Depreciation At 1 January 2011 0.4 6.6 51.2 58.2 Charge for the year 1.2 5.5 6.7 Disposals 1.015.116.1 Exchange differences 0.4 0.4 At 1 January 2012 0.4 6.8 41.2 48.4 Charge for the year 1.7 5.3 7.0 Disposals 1.614.315.9 Exchange differences 0.2 1.1 1.3 At 31 December 2012 0.4 6.7 31.1 38.2 Carrying amount At 31 December 2012 2.0 5.8 11.5 19.3 At 31 December 2011 2.0 5.5 12.2 19.7 1 All the 8.0m 2011: 7.7m additions represents cash paid.
The Group does not have any of its property and equipment pledged as security over bank loans.
108 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc 22 SUBSIDIARIES The listing below shows the principal subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2012 which principally affected the profits or net assets of the Group.
To avoid a statement of excessive length, details of investments which are not significant have been omitted.
Country of Ordinary registration and shares Company incorporation Principal activity held Taylor & Francis Group LLC USA Publishing 100% IIR Holdings Limited Dubai Branch Middle East Conferences, exhibitions and training 100% BTS Feiras, Eventos e Editora Ltda Brazil Event organisation 100% Informa Global Markets Europe Limited England and Wales Financial information 100% Citeline Inc USA Intelligence information gathering service 100% Euroforum Deutschland Holding GmbH Germany Conference organisation and publishing 100% Informa Canada Inc Canada Events and conference organisation 100% Informa Australia Pty Limited Australia Events, conference organisation and publishing 100% Informa UK Limited England and Wales Events, conference organisation and publishing 100% Informa Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100% Datamonitor Inc USA Business information 100% IIR Exhibitions Limited England and Wales Event organisation 100% Datamonitor Pty Limited Australia Business information 100% Emerging Portfolio Funds Research Inc USA Financial information 100% AchieveGlobal Inc USA Training company 100% ESI International Inc USA Training company 100% I. I. R. Limited England and Wales Conference organisation and training 100% Institute for International Research Inc USA Conference organisation 100% SAM Monaco Yacht Show Monaco Event organisation 100% Informa Investment Solutions Inc USA Financial information 100% Informa Business Information Inc USA Intelligence information gathering service 100% Informa Research Services Inc USA Market research consulting 100% Datamonitor Limited England and Wales Business information 100% Informa International Holdings Limited Bermuda Holding company 100% Informa IP GmbH Switzerland Business information 100% Informa Finance GmbH Switzerland Finance 100% Informa Group Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100% Informa Group plc England and Wales Holding company 100% Informa IP LLC USA Business information 100% Of the above only Informa IP GmbH, Informa IP LLC, Informa Finance GmbH and Informa Group Holdings Limited are directly owned by Informa plc.
The proportion of voting power held is the same as the proportion of ownership interest.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of all entities controlled by the Company as at 31December each year.
Refer to Note 3 for further description of the method used to account for investments in subsidiaries.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 109 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 23 INVENTORY 2012 2011 m m Raw materials 0.4 0.9 Work in progress 4.1 3.0 Finished goods and goods for resale 33.7 30.0 38.2 33.9 Write down of inventory during the year amounted to 0.6m 2011: 1.1m.
24 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2012 2011 m m Current Trade receivables 193.4 220.0 Less: provision 24.4 23.6 Trade receivable net 169.0 196.4 Other receivables 10.5 10.5 Prepayments and accrued income 31.2 32.2 Conference costs in advance 17.3 12.3 228.0 251.4 Non-current Other receivables 20.4 Total non-current 20.4 248.4 251.4 The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 32 days 2011: 28 days.
The Group has provision policies for its various divisions which have been determined by references to past default experience.
Other non-current receivables primarily consists of long term receivables of 10.1m that arose as part of the disposals made during the year, as disclosed in Note 20, and 10.3m of loans advanced to China Medical Data Services Limited.
The non-current receivables are repayable over the next two to ten years.
The Groups exposures to credit risk and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in Note 31.
Under the normal course of business, the Group does not charge interest on its overdue receivables.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
110 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc 25 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2012 2011 Note m m Cash at bank and in hand 23.9 25.0 Bank overdrafts 30 0.6 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 23.3 24.8 Cash at bank and in hand has been presented on a net basis where the Group has legal right to set-off.
The Groups exposure to interest rate risks and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities is disclosed in Note 31.
26 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2012 2011 m m Current Deferred consideration 4.1 5.0 Trade payables 40.6 31.7 Accruals 127.4 137.3 Other payables 30.2 32.9 Total current 202.3 206.9 Non-current Deferred consideration 2.8 Other payables 3.6 4.3 Total non-current 3.6 7.1 205.9 214.0 An analysis of the maturity of debt is given in Note 31.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 37 days 2011: 45 days.
There are no suppliers who represent more than 10% of the total balance of trade payables in either 2012 or 2011.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit time frame.
Therefore, under the normal course of business, the Group is not charged interest on overdue payables.
27 DEFERRED INCOME 2012 2011 m m Subscriptions and event fees received in advance 308.1 327.0 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 111 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 28 PROVISIONS Contingent Property Restructuring Total Contingent Property Restructuring Total consideration leases provision 2012 consideration leases provision 2011 m m m m m m m m At 1 January 14.8 4.3 3.5 22.6 16.0 7.2 3.5 26.7 Increase in year 6.5 3.0 10.0 19.5 7.1 2.3 17.5 26.9 Utilisation 12.1 3.0 9.4 24.5 5.4 4.4 17.1 26.9 Release 1.6 1.4 0.8 3.8 2.9 0.8 0.4 4.1 At 31 December 7.6 2.9 3.3 13.8 14.8 4.3 3.5 22.6 Included in current liabilities 1.7 1.0 2.4 5.1 5.5 2.0 2.9 10.4 Included in non-current liabilities 5.9 1.9 0.9 8.7 9.3 2.3 0.6 12.2 The contingent consideration relates primarily to the acquisitions made in the year Fertecon Limited, Sagient Research Systems Inc. and ICANBUY Corp.
The contingent consideration will be paid between one and three years.
The property lease provision represents the estimated excess of rent payable on surplus property leases, plus dilapidation provisions, less rent receivable via sub leases.
The property lease provisions will be fully utilised between one and five years.
As discussed in Note 2, during 2012 the Group implemented a number of restructuring and reorganisation projects.
The restructuring provision is expected to be substantially utilised by 31 December 2013.
29 DEFERRED TAX Accelerated Cash tax Pensions flow depreciation Intangibles Note 37 Other hedges Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2011 1.5 212.9 2.8 17.5 6.0 188.1 Credit debit to Other Comprehensive Income for the year 1.1 4.7 3.6 Acquisition of subsidiaries 4.6 1.4 3.2 Credit charge to profit or loss for the year excluding UK corporation tax rate change 3.2 24.7 0.9 2.8 24.2 Charge credit to profit or loss for the year arising from UK corporation tax rate change 0.1 6.3 0.2 6.0 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 0.1 At 1 January 2012 1.6 186.4 3.0 15.8 1.3 164.7 Credit debit to Other Comprehensive Income for the year 1.7 1.3 0.4 Acquisition of subsidiaries 12.4 0.4 12.8 Charge credit to profit or loss for the year excluding UK corporation tax rate change 1.6 10.1 0.7 0.8 7.0 Charge credit to profit or loss for the year arising from UK corporation tax rate change 0.2 5.0 0.3 4.5 Disposal of qualifying assets 2.1 0.6 1.5 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 1.8 1.3 3.2 At 31 December 2012 0.1 179.8 4.0 15.0 160.9 112 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The following is the analysis of deferred tax balances for Consolidated Statement of Financial Position purposes: 2012 2011 m m Deferred tax liability 160.9 164.7 Deferred tax asset 160.9 164.7 The June 2010 UK Budget Statement included proposals to reduce the rate of corporation tax from 28% to 24% by 1 April 2014.
These proposals were amended in successive UK Budget Statements and again most recently in the November 2012 UK Autumn Statement which included an announcement that the main rate of corporation tax would ultimately fall to 21% by 1 April 2014.
A change from 28% to 27% was enacted as at 31 December 2010.
The Finance Act 2011 amended the enacted change in 2011 from 27% to 26% and a further change to 25%, effective from 1 April 2012, was enacted as at 31 December 2011.
The impact of this further reduction for 2011 was to reduce the Groups deferred tax liability by 5.7m, increase profit for the year by 6.0m and reduce other comprehensive income by 0.3m.
The Finance Act 2012 amended the enacted change in 2012 from 26% to 24% and a further change to 23%, effective from 1April2013, was enacted as at 31 December 2012.
The impact of this further reduction for 2012 is to reduce the Groups deferred tax liability by 4.3m, increase profit for the year by 4.5m and reduce other comprehensive income by 0.2m.
The proposed further reduction in the UK rate to 21% by 1 April 2014, if applied to the deferred tax balance at 31 December 2012, would reduce the deferred tax liability by approximately a further 4.4m.
At 31 December 2012 the Group has unused tax losses of approximately 27.2m 2011: 12.8m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset of 8.8m 2011: 4.3m has not been recognised due to the unpredictability of future taxable profit streams.
In addition the Group has capital losses of approximately 41.4m which will only be utilised to the extent that future capital gains are crystallised and accordingly a deferred tax asset of 14.5m has not been recognised.
At the reporting date, the aggregate amount of withholding tax on post acquisition undistributed earnings for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was 22.6m 2011: 15.1m.
No liability has been recognised because the Group, being in a position to control the timing of the distribution of intra group dividends, has no intention to distribute intra group dividends in the foreseeable future that would trigger withholding tax.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 113 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 30 BORROWINGS 2012 2011 Note m m Non-current Bank borrowings 377.2 339.9 Private placement loan notes 448.5 467.0 Total non-current borrowings 825.7 806.9 Current Bank borrowings 1.9 Bank overdraft 25 0.6 0.2 826.3 809.0 There have been no breaches of bank covenants during the year.
The bank borrowings are guaranteed by material subsidiaries of the Group.
The Group does not have any of its property and equipment and other intangible assets pledged as security over bank loans.
The Group maintains the following significant lines of credit: t Private placement loan notes drawn in three currency tranches of USD 597.5m, GBP 40.0m and EUR 50.0m.
The note maturities range between five and ten years, with an average duration of 6.3 years, at a weighted average interest rate of 4.3%.
t 625.0m 2011: 625.0m revolving credit facility, of which 379.9m has been drawn down at 31 December 2012.
Interest is payable at the rate of LIBOR plus a margin based on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
t 40.2m 2011: 44.6m comprising a number of bilateral bank facilities that can be drawn down to meet short-term financing needs.
Interest is payable at the local base rate plus margins that vary between 1% and 6%.
The effective interest rate as at 31 December 2012 is 3.6% 2011: 4.1%.
The Group had the following committed undrawn borrowing facilities at 31 December: 2012 2011 Expiry date m m Within one to two years In more than two years 245.1 281.5 245.1 281.5 The Groups exposure to liquidity risk is disclosed in Note 31 g. 114 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc 31 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS a Financial risk management The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: t Capital risk management t Market risk t Credit risk t Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups management of capital, and the Groups objectives, policies and procedures for measuring and managing risk.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Board has established a Treasury Committee which is responsible for developing and monitoring the Groups financial instrument related risk management policies.
The committee meets and reports regularly to the Board of Directors on its activities.
The Group treasury function provides services to the Groups businesses, co-ordinates access to domestic and international financial markets and monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group through internal risk reports which analyse exposures by degree and magnitude of risks.
These risks include market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
The Treasury Committee has put in place policies that have been established to identify and analyse financial instrument related risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
These policies provide written principles on funding and investment policies, credit risk, foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk.
Compliance with policies and exposure limits is reviewed by the Treasury Committee.
This Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, who undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders as well as sustaining the future development of the business.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Groups overall strategy remains unchanged from 2011.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt, which includes borrowings Note 30 and cash and cash equivalents Note 25, and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital Note 32, reserves and retained earnings.
Cost of capital The Groups Treasury Committee reviews the Groups capital structure on a regular basis and as part of this review, the Committee considers the weighted average cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
Gearing ratio The principal financial covenant ratios under these facilities are maximum net debt to EBITDA of 3.5 times and minimum EBITDA interest cover of 4.0 times, tested semi-annually.
At 31 December 2012 both financial covenants were comfortably achieved, with the ratio of net debt using average exchange rates to EBITDA staying at 2.1 times at 31 December 2011 and 2012.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 115 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 31 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued b Categories of Financial instruments Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements.
2012 2011 Notes m m Financial assets Loans and receivables Trade receivables 24 169.0 196.4 Other receivables 24 30.9 10.5 Cash and cash equivalents 25 23.9 25.0 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 2.0 Total financial assets 223.8 233.9 Financial liabilities Amortised cost Bank overdraft 30 0.6 0.2 Bank borrowings 30 377.2 341.8 Private placement loan notes 30 448.5 467.0 Trade payables 26 40.6 31.7 Accruals 26 127.4 137.3 Other payables 26 33.8 37.2 Deferred consideration 26 4.1 7.8 Contingent consideration 28 7.6 14.8 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 5.1 Total financial liabilities 1,039.8 1,042.9 116 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc c Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in the market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
The Groups activities expose it mainly to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates.
The Group enters into interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates and by managing the risk of currencies of its borrowings, the Group is able to achieve a level of natural hedge of both the Statement of Financial Position net currency assets and also the currency earnings due to the currency interest payable.
Refer to both interest rate risk and foreign currency risk in Note 31 d and e respectively.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
The Board sets the Groups treasury policy to ensure that it has adequate financial resources to develop the Groups businesses and to manage the currency and interest risks to which the Group is exposed.
Group Treasury monitors the distribution of its cash assets, borrowings and facilities so as to control exposure to the relative performance of any particular territory, currency or institution.
The Board and the Treasury Committee provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as policies covering specific areas, such as funding, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and investments of excess liquidity.
Risk is measured in terms of impact, inherent risk and residual risk, and takes account of managements control actions in mitigating against both external and internal risk events.
The risk model consolidates unique risk events and aggregated risk categories at both a business unit level and Group-wide, and the results are presented to the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee for discussion and review, and may drive the allocation of Internal Audit resources to provide assurance on significant risks in its annual plan.
d Interest rate risk The Group has no significant interest-bearing assets at floating rates and is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest rates.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The risk is managed by the Group by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings by the use of interest rate swap contracts and by the use of cross currency swaps.
Hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align with interest rate views and defined risk appetite, ensuring optimal hedging strategies are applied, by either protecting the Statement of Financial Position or protecting interest expense through different interest rate cycles.
The Groups policy is to minimise its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by using interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges to hedge up to 90% of forecast interest payments over a period of up to five years, based on forecast net debt levels by currency during that period.
This policy provides a level of certainty of future interest costs by swapping floating to fixed interest payments which in turn assists the predictability of achieving interest-based loan covenants.
Due to adverse market conditions in Europe, the Group early terminated its floating to floating Euro cross currency swaps taken out in 2011.
The fair value gains deferred in equity were recycled to the Consolidated Income Statement as an adjusting item.
Further information is available in Note 2.
The Groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk section of this note.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 117 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 31 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS d Interest rate risk continued Interest rate swap contracts The Group draws down on its bank borrowing facilities at floating rates of interest.
A portion of those are then swapped to fixed rates in line with the Group Treasury policy in order to manage its cash flow interest rate risk.
Such contracts enable the Group to convert borrowings from floating rates and swap them into fixed rates.
Under interest rate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals primarily quarterly, the difference between fixed contract rates and floating-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
The fair value of interest rate swaps at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the future interest rate curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract, and is disclosed below.
The average interest rate is based on the outstanding balance at the end of the financial year.
The Group did not replace the interest rate swaps that matured during the year and therefore does not have any outstanding contracts at the year end.
The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding as at the reporting date: Cash flow hedges Average contracted fixed Notional principal interest rate amount Fair value Outstanding receive floating, 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 pay fixed contracts % % m m m m Within one year 5.66 114.8 5.1 Within one to two years 114.8 5.1 At 31 December 2011, the fixed interest rates varied from 5.23% to 6.08%, and the main floating rates were EURIBOR and LIBOR.
Gains or losses deferred in equity on interest rate swap contracts as of 31 December 2011 were recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the same period in which the hedged item affected net profit or loss.
The excess of the notional principal amount over group borrowings represents the fide-designated interest rate swaps.
The following table details financial liabilities by interest category: NonNonFixed Floating interest Total Fixed Floating interest Total rate rate bearing 2012 rate rate bearing 2011 m m m m m m m m Bank overdraft 0.6 0.6 0.2 0.2 Bank borrowings 377.2 377.2 113.6 228.2 341.8 Private placement loan notes 448.5 448.5 467.0 467.0 Trade payables 40.6 40.6 31.7 31.7 Accruals 127.4 127.4 137.3 137.3 Other payables 33.8 33.8 37.2 37.2 Deferred consideration 4.1 4.1 7.8 7.8 Contingent consideration 7.6 7.6 14.8 14.8 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 5.1 5.1  118 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc Interest rate sensitivity analysis A high percentage of loans are at fixed interest rates or are designated in hedging relationships, and hence the Groups interest rate sensitivity would only be affected by the exposure to variable rate debt.
If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit for the year would have decreased or increased by 3.8m 2011: 2.3m.
e Foreign currency risk The Group is a business with significant net US Dollar USD and net Euro EUR transactions: hence exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise.
In the absence of any currency conversion, cash positions in USD and other trading currencies, such as the EUR would develop imbalances by growing GBP debt.
Allied to the Groups policy on the hedging of surplus foreign currency cash inflows, the Group will usually seek to finance its net investment in its principal overseas subsidiaries by borrowing in those subsidiaries functional currencies, primarily EUR and USD.
This policy has the effect of partially protecting the Groups consolidated Statement of Financial Position from movements in those currencies to the extent that the associated net assets are hedged by the net foreign currency borrowings.
The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: Assets Liabilities 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m USD 128.1 105.2 744.9 683.2 EUR 32.4 31.6 67.7 136.4 Other 40.8 36.9 58.9 51.2 201.3173.7 871.5 870.8 The foreign currency borrowings of 611.1m 2011: 631.5m are used to hedge the Groups net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
Average rate Closing rate 2012 2011 2012 2011 USD 1.5898 1.6047 1.6175 1.5439 EUR 1.2308 1.1461 1.2265 1.1934 Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The Group receives approximately 46% of its revenues and incurs approximately 38% of its costs in USD or currencies pegged to USD.
The Group is therefore sensitive to movements in the USD against the GBP.
Each $0.01 movement in the USD to GBP exchange rate has a circa 3.6m impact on revenue, a circa 1.5m impact on operating profits and a circa 0.19p impact on adjusted diluted EPS.
Offsetting this will be reductions to USD interest and USD tax liabilities.
This analysis assumes all other variables, including interest rates, remain constant.
The Group receives approximately 10% of its revenues and incurs approximately 9% of its costs in Euros.
The Group is therefore sensitive to movements in the Euro against the GBP.
Each 0.01 movement in the Euro to GBP exchange rate has a circa 1.0m impact on revenue, a circa 0.4m impact on operating profits and a circa 0.05p impact on adjusted diluted EPS.
Offsetting this will be reductions to Euro interest and Euro tax liabilities.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 119 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 31 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued f Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are loans and receivables trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents, which represent the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Groups credit ris is primarily attributable to its trade and other receivables.
The amounts presented in the Statement of Financial Position are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited by dealing only with counterparty banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies such as Standard and Poors, Moodys and Fitch.
The Groups exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved financial institutions.
Credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed and approved by the Treasury Committee regularly.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
Trade receivables Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas and the Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The demographics of the Groups customer base, including default risk of the industry and country in which the customers operate, has less of an influence on credit risk.
The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The Group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities.
Concentration of credit risk did not exceed 5% of gross monetary assets at any time during the year.
The Group establishes a provision that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables and investments when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
The main components of this provision are a specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures, and a collective loss component established for groups of similar assets in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified.
The collective loss provision is determined by reference to past default experience.
Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses an external credit rating system to assess the potential customers credit quality.
All customers have credit limits set by credit managers and are subject to standard terms of payment for each division.
As the events division works on a prepaid basis they are not subject to the same credit controls and they have a low bad debt history.
The Group is exposed to normal credit risk and potential losses are mitigated as the Group does not have significant exposure to any single customer.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
120 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc Ageing of trade receivables: Gross 2012 Provision 2012 Gross 2011 Provision 2011 m m m m Not past due 89.3 0.1 91.6 Past due 0 30 days 59.6 0.5 86.2 0.8 Past due over 31 days 44.5 14.0 42.2 12.7 Books provision see below 9.8 10.1 193.4 24.4 220.0 23.6 Trade receivables that are less than three months past due for payment are generally not considered impaired.
For trade receivables that are more than three months past due for payment, there are debtors with a carrying amount of 5.8m 2011:3.3m which the Group has not provided for, as there has not been a significant change in the credit quality and the amounts are considered recoverable.
The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
A provision relating to returns on books of 9.8m 2011: 10.1m has been disclosed separately in the table above.
This provision is based on Managements best estimate of previous seasonal sales and returns trends, and is included as part of the overall provision balance.
Movement in the provision: 2012 2011 m m Balance at beginning of the year 23.6 22.1 Provision recognised 10.8 9.4 Receivables written off as uncollectible 2.5 3.5 Amounts recovered during the year 7.5 4.4 24.4 23.6 In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated.
Accordingly, the directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the above amounts.
There are no customers who represent more than 10% of the total gross balance of trade receivables in both 2012 and 2011.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 121 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 31 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued g Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, though operationally it is managed by Group Treasury.
Group Treasury have built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking and other debt facilities and reserve borrowing facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Included in Note 30 is a summary of additional undrawn facilities that the Group has at its disposal to further reduce liquidity risk.
Historically and for the foreseeable future the Group has been and is expected to continue to be in a net borrowing position.
The Groups policy is to fulfill its borrowing requirements by borrowing in the currencies in which it operates, principally GBP, USD and EUR: thereby providing a natural hedge against projected future surplus USD and EUR cash inflows as well as spreading the Groups interest rate profile across a number of currencies.
Liquidity and interest risk tables The following tables detail the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its financial assets and liabilities.
The table below has been drawn up based on the contractual maturities of the financial assets including interest that will be earned on those assets except where the Group anticipates that the cash flow will occur in a different period.
Greater Carrying Contractual Less than than 1 amount cash flows 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years 31 December 2012 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial assets Non-interest bearing 205.2 205.2 203.5 0.2 1.5 Fixed interest rate instruments 18.6 46.6 1.1 1.1 7.5 36.9 223.8 251.8 204.6 1.3 7.5 38.4 Derivative financial assets Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships  31 December 2011 Non-derivative financial assets Non-interest bearing 231.9 231.9 231.9 231.9 231.9 231.9 Derivative financial assets Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 2.0 2.0 0.7 1.3 233.9233.9232.61.3 1 Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
122 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc The following tables have been drawn up based on the earliest date on which the Group can settle its financial liabilities.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
Greater Carrying Contractual Less than than 1 amount cash flows 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years 31 December 2012 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments 377.8 380.9 380.9 Fixed interest rate instruments 448.5 576.0 19.4 19.4 265.4 271.8 Trade and other payables 201.8 201.8 198.2 3.6 Deferred consideration 4.1 4.1 4.1 Contingent consideration 7.6 7.6 1.7 5.4 0.5 1,039.8 1,170.4 604.3 28.4 265.9 271.8 Derivative financial liability Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships  1 Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Greater Carrying Contractual Less than than 1 amount cash flows 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years 31 December 2011 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments 228.4 231.2 2.5 228.7 Fixed interest rate instruments 580.6 735.1 20.2 20.2 244.2 450.5 Trade and other payables 206.2 206.2 199.1 7.1 Deferred consideration 7.8 7.8 5.0 2.8 Contingent consideration 14.8 14.9 5.5 8.3 1.1 1,037.8 1,195.2 232.3 38.4 474.0 450.5 Derivative financial liability Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 5.1 5.5 5.5  1 Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The Group draws down on its bank borrowing facilities at floating rates of interest.
In 2011, a portion of those were then swapped to fixed rates in line with the Group treasury policy.
The swaps with principal amount of 114.8m all matured in 2012.
Interest payments of 5.5m on these borrowing facilities were included in the contractual cash flows of the designated financial instruments and were all due in 2012.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 123 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 31 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued h Fair value of financial instruments The fair value is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties and is calculated by reference to market rates discounted to current value.
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: t the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets is determined with reference to quoted market prices: t the fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments: and t the fair value of derivative instruments is calculated using quoted prices.
Where such prices are not available, use is made of discounted cash flow analysis using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing models for optional derivatives.
The directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate to their fair values due to the short maturity of the instruments or because they bear interest at rates approximate to the market.
Carrying Estimated Carrying Estimated amount fair value amount fair value 2012 2012 2011 2011 Notes m m m m Financial assets Loans and receivables Trade receivables 24 169.0 169.0 196.4 196.4 Other receivables 24 30.9 30.9 10.5 10.5 Cash and cash equivalents 25 23.9 23.9 25.0 25.0 Financial liabilities Amortised Cost Bank overdraft 30 0.6 0.6 0.2 0.2 Bank borrowings 30 377.2 377.2 341.8 341.8 Private placement loan notes 30 448.5 448.5 467.0 467.0 Trade payables 26 40.6 40.6 31.7 31.7 Accruals  Other payables 26 33.8 33.8 37.2 37.2 Deferred consideration 26 4.1 4.1 7.8 7.8 Contingent consideration 28 7.6 7.6 14.8 14.8 124 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc i Fair value measurements recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
t Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
t Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
t Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2012 2012 2012 2012 m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2011 2011 2011 2011 m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 2.0 2.0 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 5.1 5.1 32 SHARE CAPITAL 2012 2011 m m Authorised 202,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.1p each 2011: 202,500,000,000 of 0.1p each 202.5 202.5 2012 2011 m m Issued and fully paid 602,707,165 ordinary shares of 0.1p each 2011: 601,202,853 of 0.1p each 0.6 0.6 Number of shares m At 31 December 2011 601,202,853 0.6 Issued in respect of share option schemes and other entitlements 1,504,312 At 31 December 2012 602,707,165 0.6 Share options As at 31 December 2012, there were no outstanding share options.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 125 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 33 CAPITAL AND RESERVES This note provides further explanation for the Other reserves listed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Reserve for shares ESOP to be Merger Other Trust Hedging Translation issued reserve reserve shares reserve reserve Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2011 4.8 496.4 1,718.6 0.4 9.9 49.3 1,178.4 Decrease in fair value of cash flow hedges 11.6 11.6 Loss on translation of foreign operations 13.1 13.1 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income Note 29 4.7 4.7 Total comprehensive income expense for the year 6.9 13.1 6.2 Share award expense 3.0 3.0 Own shares purchased 0.1 0.1 Transfer of vested LTIPs 1.6 0.3 1.3 At 1 January 2012 6.2 496.4 1,718.6 0.2 3.0 36.2 1,183.0 Decrease in fair value of cash flow hedges 4.3 4.3 Loss on translation of foreign operations 42.3 42.3 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income Note 29 1.3 1.3 Total comprehensive income for the year 3.0 42.3 39.3 Share award expense 3.8 3.8 Own shares purchased 0.1 0.1 Transfer of vested LTIPs 4.1 4.1 At 31 December 2012 5.9 496.4 1,718.6 0.3 6.1 1,222.7 Reserve for shares to be issued This reserve relates to share options granted to employees under the employee share option plan.
Further information about share-based payments to employees is set out in Note 10.
Merger reserve The merger reserve has not changed since 2004, when it was created from the business combination with Taylor&FrancisGroup plc.
Other reserve Other reserve includes the inversion accounting reserve of 1,641.8m, which was created from the new equity structure in June2009.
It also includes a redemption reserve, which is the reserve fund into which profits are allocated for the purpose of redeeming or buying back shares in the Company.
126 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc ESOP Trust shares As at 31 December 2012 the Informa Employee Share Trust held 108,422 2011: 70,348 ordinary shares in the Company at a cost of 108 2011: 70 and a market value of 0.5m 2011: 0.2m.
41,660 shares 2011: 46,527 held by the Employee Share Trust have not been allocated to individuals and the remaining shares have been allocated to individuals in accordance with the Deferred Share Bonus Plan as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 56.
Dividends on the shares held by the Employee Share Trust are waived.
At 31 December 2012 the Group held 0.0% 2011: 0.0% of its own called up share capital.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
34 NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST The Groups non-controlling interest at 31 December 2012 was composed entirely of equity interests and represents the minority shares of Agra CEAS Consulting Limited 18.2% and Bureau European fide Recherches SA 18.2%.
The Group disposed of its share in China Medical Data Services Limited 49.9% and its wholly owned subsidiary Asia Gateway Healthcare Information Technology Beijing Co. Ltd during the year.
Further information is disclosed in Note 20.
The Groups non-controlling interest at 31 December 2011 was composed entirely of equity interests and represents the minority shares of Agra CEAS Consulting Limited 18.2%, Bureau European fide Recherches SA 18.2%, China Medical Data Services Limited 49.9% and its wholly owned subsidiary Asia Gateway Healthcare Information Technology Beijing Co. Ltd. 35 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS 2012 2011 m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in Consolidated Income Statement for the year 22.3 26.0 At the reporting date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2012 2011 Land and Land and buildings Other buildings Other m m m m Within one year 24.5 0.8 22.4 1.1 Within two to five years 52.3 0.7 51.8 1.1 After five years 24.7 23.9 101.51.598.12.2 Operating lease payments on land and buildings represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its properties.
Leases are negotiated for an average term of six years and rentals are fixed for an average of three years.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 127 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 36 NOTES TO THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT 2012 2011 Notes m m Profit before tax 67.0 88.6 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property and equipment 21 7.0 6.7 Amortisation of other intangible assets 17 148.9 151.0 Share-based payment 10 3.8 3.0 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 2 1.6 2.9 Loss profit on disposal of businesses 20 27.5 0.1 Fair value gain on non-controlling interest 2 1.0 Loss on disposal of property and equipment 0.3 Profit loss on disposal of software 0.2 0.3 Finance costs 11 41.4 47.6 Investment income 12 10.5 5.8 Impairment 281.354.3 Increase decrease in inventories 2.6 0.2 Decrease increase in receivables 22.3 0.9 Decrease in payables 41.8 26.7 Cash generated by operations 341.5 315.6 Analysis of net debt At Non-cash Exchange At 1 January 2012 items Cash flow movement 31 December 2012 m m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 25.0 0.6 1.7 23.9 Bank overdraft 0.2 0.4 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents 24.8 0.2 1.7 23.3 Bank loans due in less than one year 1.9 1.7 0.2 Bank loans due in more than one year 339.9 0.8 45.6 9.1 377.2 Private placement loan notes due in more than one year 467.0 0.3 18.8 448.5 784.0 1.1 43.7 26.4 802.4 Included within the cash flow movement of 43.7m is 44.0m 2011: 368.3m of repayment of borrowings and 80.0m 2011: 366.4m of loans drawn down.
The net movement caused by non-cash items arises from arrangement fee amortisation of 1.1m 2011: 2.7m.
128 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc 37 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES The Group operates three defined benefit pension schemes, the Informa Final Salary Scheme, the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme and the Achieve Learning UK Pension and Benefits Scheme the Group Schemes for all qualifying UK employees providing benefits based on final pensionable pay.
Contributions are determined by a qualified actuary on the basis of triennial valuations using the projected unit method.
Charge to operating profit The charge to operating profit for the year in respect of pensions was 9.3m 2011: 9.1m.
The net pension charge for the defined benefit schemes in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year was 0.8m 2011: 0.3m, of which nil 2011: 0.3m was charged to operating profit.
The Group also operates defined contribution schemes, and contributions charged to the Consolidated Income Statement during the year were 9.3m 2011: 8.8m.
Defined benefit schemes Informa Final Salary Scheme The latest full actuarial valuation of the Informa Final Salary Scheme was carried out at 31 March 2011.
An actuarial valuation was carried out for IAS 19 purposes as at 31 December 2012 by a qualified independent actuary.
The Scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2000 and closed to future accrual on 1 April 2011.
The Groups contribution over the year was 2.9m.
The Employer expects to pay 4.0m to the Scheme during the accounting year beginning 1 January 2013 in respect of the deficit payments.
The market value of the schemes assets as at 31 December 2012 was 55.8m which represented 84% of the benefits valued on an IAS 19 basis that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the IAS 19 valuation are those relating to the discount rate, rate of return on investments and the rates of increase in salaries, price inflation and pensions.
The assumptions adopted are: 2012 2011 Discount rate 4.4% p. a.
Rate of return on investments 6.1% p. a.
Rate of price inflation pre-retirement 2.4% p. a.
Rate of increase in pensions in payment non pensioners 3.8% p. a.
Rate of increase in pensions in payment pensioners 2.9% p. a.
Rate of increase in salaries 4.1% p. a.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the Informa Final Salary Scheme liabilities are set out below: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 1.5m Rate of price inflation pre-retirement Increase decrease by 0.25% Increase decrease by 3.0m Rate of increase in salaries Increase decrease by 0.25% Increase decrease by 0.6m Rate of mortality Increase decrease by 1 year Increase decrease by 1.7m Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme The latest full actuarial valuation of the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme was carried out at 30September 2011.
The Groups contribution over the year was 0.8m.
The Employer expects to pay 0.3m to the scheme during the accounting year beginning 1 January 2013 in respect of the deficit.
The market value of the schemes assets as at 31 December 2012 was 19.8m which represented 94% of the benefits valued on an IAS 19 basis that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 129 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 37 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES Defined benefit schemes continued The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the IAS 19 valuation are those relating to the discount rate, rate of return on investments and the rates of increase in salaries, price inflation and pensions.
Rate of return on investments 5.0% p. a.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme liabilities are set out below: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 0.4m Rate of price inflation pre-retirement Increase decrease by 0.25% Increase decrease by 0.7m Rate of increase in salaries Increase decrease by 0.25% Increase decrease by 0.1m Rate of mortality Increase decrease by 1 year Increase decrease by 0.5m Achieve Learning UK Pension & Benefits Scheme The latest full actuarial valuation of the Achieve Learning UK Pension & Benefits Scheme was carried out at 31 December 2009.
The results have been updated to 31 December 2012 by a qualified independent actuary.
The scheme was closed to future accrual of pensions at the time of the acquisition of IIR Holdings Limited in 2005.
The Groups contribution over the year was 150,000.
The Employer expects to pay 150,000 to the scheme during the accounting year beginning 1 January 2013 in respect of the deficit.
The market value of the schemes assets as at 31 December 2012 was 6.2m which represented 98% of the benefits valued on an IAS 19 basis that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in inflation.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the IAS 19 valuation are those relating to the discount rate, rate of return on investments and the rates of increase in price inflation and pensions.
Rate of return on investments 6.5% p. a.
Rate of increase in salaries n a n a The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the Achieve Learning UK Pension & Benefits Scheme liabilities are set out below: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 0.1m Rate of price inflation pre-retirement Increase decrease by 0.25% Increase decrease by 0.3m Rate of mortality Increase decrease by 1 year Increase decrease by 0.1m 130 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc Amounts recognised in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit Current service cost 0.3 Total operating charge 0.3 Analysis of finance cost income Expected return on pension scheme assets 3.4 4.4 Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 4.2 4.3 Net finance cost income 0.8 0.1 Amounts recognised in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Analysis of amount recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 2.8 5.8 Experience loss gain 0.4 1.5 Change in actuarial assumptions 10.9 0.8 Actuarial loss 8.5 5.1 Movement in deficit during the year Deficit in Scheme at beginning of the year 12.1 10.5 Current service cost 0.3 Contributions 3.9 3.7 Other net finance cost income 0.8 0.1 Actuarial loss 8.5 5.1 Deficit in Scheme at end of the year 17.5 12.1 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 131 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 37 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES Defined benefit schemes continued The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in respect of the Group Schemes are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 99.3 85.8 Fair value of Scheme assets 81.8 73.7 Deficit in Scheme and liability recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 17.5 12.1 Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Opening defined benefit obligation 85.8 83.6 Service cost 0.3 Interest cost 4.2 4.3 Benefits paid 2.0 1.7 Actuarial gains and losses 11.3 0.7 Closing defined benefit obligation 99.3 85.8 Changes in the fair value of Scheme assets are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Opening fair value of Scheme assets 73.7 73.1 Expected return on Scheme assets 3.4 4.4 Actuarial gains and losses 2.8 5.8 Contributions from the sponsoring companies 3.9 3.7 Benefits paid 2.0 1.7 Closing fair value of Scheme assets 81.8 73.7 132 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV FINAN ERVC IE IAL W STATEMENTS Informa plc The assets of the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme are held in managed funds and cash funds operated by Zurich Assurance Ltd and Legal & General.
The assets of the Informa Final Salary Scheme are held in managed funds and cash funds operated by Skandia Investment Management.
The assets of the Achieve Learning UK Pension and Benefits Scheme are managed by Schroder Investment Management Ltd.
The fair value of the assets held and the expected rates of return assumed are as follows: Expected rate of return Expected rate of return year commencing Fair value at year commencing Fair value at 31 December 2012 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 31 December 2011 % m % m Equities Achieve Learning 7.5 4.9 6.0 4.5 Taylor & Francis 7.5 6.9 6.0 8.8 Informa 7.5 31.2 6.0 29.8 Bonds Achieve Learning 3.5 0.9 3.8 0.8 Taylor & Francis 3.4 6.0 3.8 5.4 Informa 2.8 7.8 3.0 7.5 Cash Achieve Learning 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.4 Taylor & Francis 0.5 3.1 0.5 2.6 Informa 0.5 4.7 0.5 10.6 Property Achieve Learning 6.0 6.0 Taylor & Francis 6.0 1.2 6.0 1.2 Informa 6.0 2.1 6.0 2.1 Diversified Growth Fund Achieve Learning 7.0 Taylor & Francis 7.0 2.6 Informa 7.0 10.0 81.8 73.7 The expected return on assets assumptions are derived by considering the expected long-term rates of return on plan investments.
The overall rate of return is a weighted average rate of return of each asset class.
The long-term rates of return on equities and property are derived from considering current long-term fixed interest government bond rates with the addition of an appropriate future risk premium.
The long-term rates of return on bonds and cash investments are set in line with market yields currently available.
The Group Schemes assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 133 Informa plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 37 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES Defined benefit schemes continued The history of the Group Schemes for the current and prior years is as follows: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 99.3 85.8 83.6 74.7 63.0 Fair value of Scheme assets 81.8 73.7 73.1 63.4 52.7 Deficit in the Scheme and liability recognised in Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 17.5 12.1 10.5 11.3 10.3 Related deferred tax assets 4.0 3.0 2.8 3.1 2.8 Deficit net of deferred tax assets 13.5 9.1 7.7 8.2 7.5 Experience adjustments on Scheme liabilities: Amount m 0.4 1.3 2.2 0.5 0.1 Percentage of Scheme liabilities % 0.4 1.6 2.6 0.7 0.2 Experience adjustments on Scheme assets: Amount m 2.8 5.8 3.6 6.8 11.2 Percentage of Scheme assets % 3.5 7.8 4.9 10.7 21.2 Following the completion of the triennial valuations of the main defined benefit schemes, a revised deficit funding plan has been agreed with the trustees to eliminate the deficits in the three schemes.
The contributions for the ongoing service will be nil in 2013 as all three schemes are closed to future accrual of benefits.
In addition, the contributions paid towards reducing the scheme deficits will increase from 3.9m in 2012 to 4.5m in 2013 and decrease to 3.2m in 2014.
38 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
The transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are disclosed below.
The following transactions and arrangements are those which are considered to have had a material effect on the financial performance and position of the Group for the period.
Transactions with Directors There were no material transactions with Directors of the Company during the year, except for those relating to remuneration and shareholdings.
For the purposes of IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, Executives below the level of the Companys Board are not regarded as related parties.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 61 and Note 9.
Transactions with joint ventures During the period the Group received revenue of 1.8m 2011: 2.4m from Lloyds Maritime Information Services Limited, a joint venture.
During the period the Group received revenue of 0.5m 2011: nil from SIAL Brasil Feiras Professionals LTDA, a joint venture.
Other related party disclosures At 31 December 2012, the Group has guaranteed the total pension scheme liability of 17.5m 2011: 12.1m.
39 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE On 5 February 2013, the Group was awarded a 30-year licence to manage Agrishow in Brazil, the largest agrifoods event in Latin America.
134 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012
