2012 Operations Governance Financial statements Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Directors responsibility statement and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws We confirm to the best of our knowledge: and regulations.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, are required to prepare Group financial statements in financial position and profit or loss of the Company and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards theundertakings included in the consolidation taken as IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the a whole: and IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent 2.
T he management report, which is incorporated into the Company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the Report of the Directors, includes a fair review of the European Union.
Under company law, the Directors must not development and performance of the business and the approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a position of the Company and the undertakings included true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing description of the principal risks and uncertainties that these financial statements, the Directors are required to: theyface.
Properly select and apply accounting policies Rupert Pearce Present information, including accounting policies, in a Chief Executive Officer manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 7 March 2013 understandable information Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users Rick Medlock to understand the impact of particular transactions, other Chief Financial Officer events and conditions on the entitys financial position and 7 March 2013 financial performance, and Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Inmarsat plc 59 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012
