Other information Investor information Website and electronic communication Individual Savings Account ISA As part of the Companys commitment to reducing the cost and Equiniti offers a Stocks and Shares ISA where IHG shares can be invested.
For further information please contact Equiniti environmental impact of producing and distributing printed documents in very large quantities, IHGs Annual Report and Annual Review have on 0871 384 2244. been made available to shareholders through the Companys website Share dealing services www.
com investors under financial library.
Equiniti offers the following share dealing facilities: Shareholders may appoint electronically a proxy to vote on their behalf on any poll that is to be held at the forthcoming Annual General Postal dealing Meeting.
Shareholders who hold their shares through CREST may For more information call 0871 384 2248. appoint proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment Telephone dealing service, by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
Shareholder Hotel Discount Promotion Internet dealing IHG offers discounted hotel stays subject to availability for Log on to www.
co. uk registered shareholders through a dedicated, controlled access website.
For further details please contact the Company Secretariat Changes to the base cost of IHG shares department on 01895 512 000 or email companysecretariat@ihg.
com Details of all the changes to the base cost of IHG shares held since April 2003 to December 2012, for UK Capital Gains Tax purposes, Corporate Responsibility Report may be found on the Companys website www.
com investors IHG updates its online Corporate Responsibility Report regularly, under shareholder centre tax information.
covering progress on a range of environmental, social and community Missing shareholders issues.
com responsibility Working with ProSearch an asset reunification company, we IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme continue to look for shareholders who have not kept their contact The IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme enables IHG to support our details up-to-date.
We have funds waiting to be claimed and are hotels and surrounding communities, employees and guests when committed to doing what we can to pay these to their rightful a disaster strikes, by providing immediate and vital assistance.
For further details please contact ProSearch on 01732 741 411 or email info@prosearchassets.
com If you would like to make a donation to the programme, you can do so online via a secure payment page www.
com Shareholder security Registrar Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning For information on a range of shareholder services including investment matters.
These are typically from brokers who target enquiries concerning individual shareholdings, notification of a UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be shareholders change of address and amalgamation of shareholder worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK investments.
These accounts in order to avoid duplicate mailing of shareholder operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
More detailed communications, shareholders should contact the Companys information on this or similar activity can be found on the Financial Registrar, Equiniti, on 0871 384 2132 calls from within the UK Services Authority website www.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses Dividend services will be included in Company mailings.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP American Depositary Receipts ADRs The Company offers a DRIP for shareholders to purchase additional The Companys shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange IHG shares with their cash dividends.
For further information about in the form of American Depositary Shares, evidenced by ADRs and the DRIP, please contact our Registrar helpline on 0871 384 2268. traded under the symbol IHG.
A DRIP application form and information booklet are available at Each ADR represents one ordinary share.
co. uk products pages applyforadrip.
aspx ADR holder accounts and payment of dividends should be directed Bank mandate to JPMorgan Chase & Co, our authorised ADR depositary bank We encourage shareholders to have their dividends paid directly contact details shown on page 140. into their UK bank or building society account to ensure efficient payment and funds being cleared on the payment date Form 20-F Shareholders who would like their dividends to be paid directly into The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the their account should contact our Registrar.
Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in the US and files with the SEC an Annual Report on Form 20-F.
The Form 20-F can be Overseas payment service found on the Companys website www.
com investors under It is also possible for shareholders to have their dividends paid shareholder centre ADR holders or by visiting the SECs website direct to their bank account in a local currency.
shtml payable for this service.
Further information is available at www.
co. uk shareholders pages overseaspayments.
aspx Calls cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday, Out of date unclaimed dividends excluding UK public holidays.
Lines are open from 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday, If you think that you have out of date dividend cheques or unclaimed excluding UK public holidays.
dividend payments please contact our Registrar.
138 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
