Other information Financial calendar 2012 Interim dividend of 13.5p per share 21.0 per ADR : Payment date 28 September Special dividend of 108.4p per share $1.72 per existing ADR : Payment date 22 October Financial year end 31 December 2013 Preliminary announcement of annual results 19 February Final dividend of 27.7p per share 43.0 per ADR : Ex-dividend date 20 March Record date 22 March Announcement of first quarter interim management statements 8 May Annual General Meeting 24 May Final dividend of 27.7p per share 43.0 per ADR : Payment date 31 May Announcement of interim results 6 August Interim dividend: Payment date October Announcement of third quarter interim management statements 5 November Financial year end 31 December 2014 Preliminary announcement of annual results February Contacts Registered office Registrar ADR depositary Priority Club Rewards Broadwater Park Equiniti JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A.
If you wish to enquire about, Denham Aspect House PO Box 64504 or join Priority Club Rewards, Buckinghamshire Spencer Road St. Paul IHGs loyalty programme, UB9 5HR Lancing MN 55164-0504 visit www.
com UK calls 1 651 453 2128 Canada toll free For general information 44 0 121 415 7034 non-US calls 1 800 272 9273 in Mexico about the Groups business non-UK calls Email toll free please contact the Corporate www.
com Affairs department at the 1 801 975 3063 English above address.
com in Central and South America F or those with hearing difficulties enquiries please contact the toll charges apply a text phone is available on 0871 384 2255 for UK callers with Auditors Company Secretariat department 1 801 975 3013 Spanish compatible equipment.
Ernst & Young LLP at the above address.
in Central and South America Calls cost 8p per minute plus network toll charges apply extras.
Lines are open from 8.30am to Investment bankers 5.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding 63 2 857 8788 from most UK public holidays.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch countries in Asia Pacific Goldman Sachs toll charges apply Solicitors 86 0 20 3419 8282 Freshfields Bruckhaus Mandarin and Cantonese Deringer LLP in China and Hong Kong toll charges apply Stockbrokers 971 4 429 0530 in Middle East Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Africa toll charges apply Goldman Sachs Telephone calls to this number are charged at 10p per minute.
Calls from mobiles will be higher.
For further investor information visit www.
com investors 140 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Other information Forward-looking statements The Holiday Inn brand received developments: the risk of events that adversely Both the Annual Report and Financial the highest numerical score impact domestic or international travel: the risks Statements 2012 and the Annual Review and among mid-scale full service Summary Financial Statement 2012 contain of the hotel industry supply and demand cycle: hotels in the proprietary J. D. Power and Associates certain forward-looking statements as defined the Groups dependency on a wide range of 2011-2012 North America Hotel under US legislation Section 21E of the external stakeholders and business partners: SM Guest Satisfaction Index Study.
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with respect the risks related to identifying, securing and Study based on responses from 61,716 guests measuring seven to the financial condition, results of operations retaining franchise and management agreements: mid-scale full service hotels and and business of InterContinental Hotels Group the risks in relation to changing technology and measures opinions of guests who stayed in a hotel June 2011- and certain plans and objectives of the Board of systems: the Groups reliance on the reputation May 2012.
Proprietary study Directors of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC of its brands and the protection of its intellectual results are based on experiences with respect thereto.
Such statements include, property rights: the risks involved in the Groups and perceptions of consumers surveyed August 2011-May 2012. but are not limited to, statements made in the reliance upon its proprietary reservations Your experiences may vary.
Chairmans Statement and in the Chief system and the risk of its failure and increased Visit jdpower.
These forward-looking competition in reservations infrastructure: the statements can be identified by the fact that they risks related to information security and data do not relate only to historical or current facts.
privacy: the risks associated with safety, security Forward-looking statements often use words and crisis management: the ability to acquire such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, and retain the right people, skills and capability intend, plan, goal, believe, or other words of to manage growth and change: compliance similar meaning.
These statements are based with existing and changing regulations across on assumptions and assessments made by numerous countries, territories and jurisdictions: InterContinental Hotels Groups management in the risk of litigation: the risks related to light of their experience and their perception of corporate responsibility: the risks associated historical trends, current conditions, expected with the Groups financial stability and its ability future developments and other factors they to borrow and satisfy debt covenants: the risks believe to be appropriate.
associated with funding risks in relation to the defined benefits under the Groups pension By their nature, forward-looking statements plans: and the risks associated with the Groups are inherently predictive, speculative and involve ability to maintain adequate insurance.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results and The main factors that could affect the business developments to differ materially from those and financial results are described in the expressed in, or implied by, such forward-looking Business Review of the Annual Report and statements, including, but not limited to: Financial Statements 2012 and also in the the risks of the effect of political and economic Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F.
Designed and produced by Corporate Edge Print management by H H Associates Ltd Printed by CPI Colour This Report is printed on Satimatt Green which is manufactured with 75% recycled fibre and 25% virgin fibre, FSC certified.
Our printer is also FSC and Carbon Neutral accredited.
Financial Calendar, Contacts and Forward-looking statements 141 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Broadwater Park, Denham, Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR United Kingdom Tel 44 0 1895 512 000 Fax 44 0 1895 512 101 Web www.
com Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 Overview Where we compete 1 About us 38 The Americas 2 Where we compete 39 Europe 3 Our business model and key facts 40 Asia, Middle East and Africa AMEA 4 Chairmans Statement 41 Greater China 6 Chief Executives Review 8 Implementing our strategy Facts and gures 10 Our business model and 42 Summary Financial Statement revenue delivery systems 46 The Board of Directors and Executive Committee How we win 48 Summary Directors Report 12 Brands 49 Corporate governance 14 InterContinental Hotels & Resorts 50 Summary Directors 16 Holiday Inn brand family Remuneration Report 20 Crowne Plaza Hotels & Resorts 58 Investor information 22 Hotel Indigo 59 Financial calendar and Contacts 24 Staybridge Suites 26 Candlewood Suites 28 HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts 29 EVEN Hotels 30 People 32 Delivery 34 Responsible Business This page Hotel Indigo Xiamen Harbour, China Front cover Holiday Inn London-Stratford City, UK OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES About us We are a global hotel business with nine preferred Brands.
With over 4,600 hotels and nearly 676,000 rooms in nearly 100 countries and territories around the world, we know hospitality.
Our Vision is to become one of the great companies in the world by creating Great Hotels Guests Love.
We will deliver this through our portfolio of preferred Brands, our talented People and best-in-class Delivery systems.
At the heart of our culture is a commitment to act responsibly in everything we do.
Brands We have a high-quality portfolio of nine preferred Brands from luxury hotels in the worlds major cities and resorts to family-orientated hotels that offer great service and value and the worlds first and largest hotel loyalty programme.
See pages 12 to 29 for more information on our preferred portfolio of Brands People Our Brands represent a promise to our guests and it is our talented and passionate People that bring each brand to life and thereby deliver Great Hotels Guests Love.
See pages 30 and 31 for information on our talented People Delivery Our best-in-class Delivery systems enable us to leverage our scale to build guest preference for our Brands and drive reservations and revenue to our hotels.
See pages 32 and 33 for information on our best-in-class Delivery systems Responsible Business IHG is committed to conducting business in a responsible way and this underpins each of our strategic priorities.
Championing and protecting the trusted reputation of IHG and our Brands is not just the right thing to do, but it makes great business sense too.
See pages 34 to 36 for information on our Responsible Business practices and corporate responsibility matters, and pages 48 to 57 for information about our Board of Directors and Executive Committee and our governance processes About us 1 01 Page Heading Where we compete We have over 4,600 hotels and nearly 676,000 rooms internationally.
When people travel, they look for hotel brands they trust.
Operating our preferred Brands to global standards increases guest demand for the hotels we franchise, manage and own in nearly 100 countries and territories around the world.
The Americas Europe Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms InterContinental 53 17,756 InterContinental 30 9,394 Crowne Plaza 183 48,730 Crowne Plaza 84 19,566 Holiday Inn 820 146,661 Holiday Inn 288 46,610 Holiday Inn Express 1,931 168,398 Holiday Inn Express 212 24,903 Hotel Indigo 37 4,307 Hotel Indigo 10 949 Staybridge Suites 183 19,787 Staybridge Suites 4 605 Candlewood Suites 299 28,675 Total for Europe 628 102,027 Other 49 15,303 Total development pipeline 91 15,184 Total for The Americas 3,555 449,617 Includes 3 Holiday Inn Resort properties 362 rooms.
Total development pipeline 670 72,573 Includes 10 Holiday Inn Club Vacations 3,701 rooms and 17 Holiday Inn Resort properties 4,240 rooms.
Asia, Middle East and Africa AMEA Greater China Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms InterContinental 65 20,791 InterContinental 22 9,373 Crowne Plaza 65 18,559 Crowne Plaza 60 21,452 Holiday Inn 75 17,440 Holiday Inn 64 20,777 Holiday Inn Express 12 2,877 Holiday Inn Express 37 9,453 Staybridge Suites 2 304 Hotel Indigo 3 405 Other 13 2,766 Other 1 141 Total for AMEA 232 62,737 Total for Greater China 187 61,601 Total development pipeline 132 30,357 Total development pipeline 160 50,916 Includes 14 Holiday Inn Resort properties 3,311 rooms.
Includes 3 Holiday Inn Resort properties 893 rooms.
2 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES Crowne Plaza Toulouse, France InterContinental Danang Sun Peninsula, Vietnam InterContinental The Palazzo, Las Vegas, US Our business model We run hotels in three ways: franchised, managed and owned.
Our asset-light business model means we own just 10 hotels less than one per cent of our portfolio.
Most of our hotels operate under a franchise agreement or are managed by IHG on behalf of owners.
All of our hotels are supported by our revenue delivery systems and marketing programmes, which drive business to our hotels.
See pages 8 to 10 for more information on our business model Key facts Operating profit before exceptional items 4,602 3,934 hotels hotels franchised $614m Group 675,982 658 rooms hotels managed $486m $88m The Americas AMEA 10 hotels owned and leased $1 15m $81m Europe Greater China As at 31 December 2012.
Includes one significant liquidated damages receipt in 2012 of $3m in The Americas.
Where we compete, Our business model and Key facts 3 Chairmans Statement I feel privileged to be the Chairman of IHG, a company with an impressive history and successful track record of driving superior returns for shareholders.
My fellow Board members and I look forward to guiding IHG to even greater achievements as we focus on brand building and the strategic global expansion of the business in the near term and future.
In my first few months after taking over We continue our long track record of Board from David Webster, I am delighted to dividend growth for shareholders, with David Webster retired at the end of 2012, share my perspective and impressions the Board recommending a 10 per cent having served on IHGs Board since the of our Company.
Since I joined in January, increase to the final dividend for 2012, original listing of the Company in April I have spent much of my time getting to taking it to 43.0 cents 27.7 pence.
This 2003 and as Chairman since January know the business better meeting with will give a full-year dividend of 64.0 cents 2004.
During this period IHG has executed employees, shareholders, owners and per share up 16 per cent on 2011.
This the move to an asset-light business model, guests and visiting our operations around converts to a sterling full-year dividend grown net room count by over 25 per cent, the world.
of 41.2 pence per share, up 19 per cent on whilst successfully completing the 2011.
Subject to shareholder approval, the Several things have struck me as a relaunch of the Holiday Inn brand.
We final dividend will be paid on 31 May 2013. newcomer to IHG.
This is a business thank him for his invaluable contribution with a clear strategy and a consistent and wish him a happy and fullling Financial position and track record of implementation retirement.
shareholder returns throughout its 10-year history.
There is Graham Allan left the Board on 15 June 2012, We remain committed to an efficient a focus across the whole organisation on following his appointment as Chief Operating balance sheet while maintaining an creating Brands that are preferred by both officer of Dairy Farm International Holdings investment grade credit rating our guests and owners, and at the heart of Limited based in Hong Kong.
I would like through the cycle.
During the year we this is the People.
I have been particularly to thank Graham for his contributions as announced a $1 billion return of funds impressed by the skills, commitment and an independent Non-Executive Director to shareholders, split between a energy of all those Ive met, who either and as a member of the Audit, Nomination $0.5 billion special dividend with share work in IHGs corporate ofces or in one and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
consolidation and a $0.5 billion share of IHGs hotels, and on behalf of the Board, We are in the process of recruiting a new buyback programme.
The special dividend I would like to thank all our People for Non-Executive Director to replace Graham.
was paid on 22 October 2012 and $107 their focus, dedication and commitment.
Dale Morrison, who has been a million of shares had been bought back Lastly, the integral role that Responsible Non-Executive Director since June 2011, by year end.
Once the share buyback Business practices play in IHGs strategy was appointed to the Corporate programme is complete, total funds is underpinned by a strong set of values Responsibility Committee in November returned to shareholders since the 2003 and unique culture seen across the 2012.
This adds to his existing roles on demerger, excluding ordinary dividends, business.
the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Performance Year-end net debt of $1,074 million was up IHGs strong performance in 2012 $536 million on 2011, reecting this return demonstrates the effectiveness of of funds to shareholders.
Nevertheless, our strategy, despite the challenging the business continues to be strongly economic environment.
We converted cash generative, with free cash ow of 4 per cent revenue growth into operating $463 million, up 10 per cent on 2011.
In profit growth of 10 per cent before November 2012 we issued a 400 million exceptional items and adjusted earnings 10-year bond, diversifying our sources per share growth of 9 per cent.
of funding and extending our average debt maturity.
4 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES 5% 6.8% 16%: 64.0 a Total gross revenue Fee revenue Total full-year dividend from hotels in IHGs System to $21.2bn Driven by 5.2% RevPAR growth and Sterling equivalent of 41.2p Revenue up 4% to $1,835m 2.7% net System size growth $614m 5.2% 8.4m Operating profit before exceptional items Revenue per available room New Priority Club Rewards members added Group $614m 2011 $559m Total number of rooms operating under The Americas $486m 2011 $451m IHG brands 675,982 4,602 hotels Total Priority Club Rewards members 71.4m Europe $115m 2011 $104m 69% of rooms revenue delivered through Asia, Middle East and Africa $88m 2011 $84m IHGs channels or by Priority Club Rewards Greater China $81m 2011 $67m members direct to hotel Total room revenue from franchised hotels and total hotel revenue from managed, owned and leased hotels not all attributable to IHG.
Includes two significant liquidated damages receipts in 2011: $10m in The Americas and $6m in Asia, Middle East and Africa.
a Group revenue excluding owned and leased hotels, managed leases and significant liquidated damages.
Growth stated at constant currency.
Total System rooms revenue divided by the number of room nights available.
Governance IHG is committed to high standards of corporate governance: we believe good governance is a fundamental part of being a Responsible Business and underpins everything we do.
This year, we again commissioned a formal evaluation of the performance of the Board from an independent consultant.
The 2012 feedback confirmed that the Board and each of its Committees continue to operate effectively and that each Director continues to make an effective contribution and retains a strong commitment to the role.
Further information on our governance practices can be found on pages 46 to 49.
Outlook There is no doubt that the global economy will continue to see challenges in the year ahead.
IHGs proven strategy, resilient business model, portfolio of preferred Brands, talented People and strong balance sheet give us the confidence that the business will continue to perform well into the future and deliver long-term value to all stakeholders.
Patrick Cescau Chairman Crowne Plaza London-The City, UK Chairmans Statement 5 Chief Executives Review 2012 was another year of high-quality growth for IHG, with the launch of two new brands and a strong pace of hotel openings and signings.
Driven by a material increase in worldwide demand for hotel rooms, we generated an impressive 6.8 per cent growth in fee revenue, one of our key metrics of success.
This translated into double digit profit growth, driven by our preferred Brands and brought to life in our hotels by talented and passionate People.
How we win particular outperformance in our two IHG has a track record of successful largest markets, the US and Greater brand launches.
But it is our powerful Our well established, asset-light strategy China.
Importantly, in spite of the limited portfolio of established brands that create has enabled us to deliver good revenue availability of capital in many markets, we value for our owners and shareholders and profit growth again this year, despite increased the number of rooms operating today and we never lose sight of that fact the continued challenges in the wider in our System by 2.7 per cent.
This, as we continually evolve and rene them.
At the core of this combined with healthy RevPAR growth Our largest brand, the Holiday Inn brand strategy lies the third party owners of IHG is what has enabled us to grow our fee family, continues to deliver significant branded hotels.
At IHG we have a unique revenue so strongly.
value for both IHG and our owners.
This competitive advantage, which is the strong year Holiday Inn was the ofcial hotel and deep relationship that we have with Preferred Brands provider to the London 2012 Olympic and our owners, primarily through the IHG Paralympic Games and celebrated its 60th Our preferred Brands are at the heart of Owners Association.
In 2012 Holiday Inn continued our business and are key to our continued enables us to work closely with our its post relaunch track record by growing success in driving strong results.
Our owners, tap into their combined expertise its premium to the sector each year since brands are already some of the most and take action more quickly and recognised in the industry but we continue 2007, and was ranked Highest Guest effectively than our competitors.
to innovate and develop them to meet Satisfaction Among Mid-Scale Full Service As we move into our 10th year as a changing guest needs and to stay ahead Hotel Chains, Two Years in a Row by stand-alone listed company, we can be in a competitive market place.
J. D. Power and Associates see page 60. proud of our record of delivery as we We are delighted to have launched two Crowne Plaza is our second largest brand continue to gain market share, leveraging new brands in 2012: HUALUXE Hotels & after the Holiday Inn brand family.
It is already our scale to grow margins, profits and Resorts in China and EVEN Hotels in the the worlds fourth largest full-service hotel cashow.
This has enabled us to continue US.
HUALUXE has had a particularly brand in the upper segments, generating to reinvest in our business whilst strong start with 15 signings in the year.
almost 20 per cent of our total gross simultaneously returning significant sums Each of these brands has been created revenue per annum.
Crowne Plaza has of surplus cash to shareholders and through a deep understanding of the been highly successful and has a solid generating superior shareholder returns.
trends in the lodging marketplace foundation for future growth, however In August 2012 we announced a $1 billion combined with genuine insight into guest we see significant opportunity to take its return of funds to shareholders continuing occasions and needs.
They have been performance in The Americas up to the our long track record of returns, with total designed to meet a need which we feel levels achieved by the brand globally.
funds returned to shareholders since is underserved in the market today and We are currently undertaking a three-phase, the 2003 demerger, including ordinary which can deliver significant revenue multi-year repositioning programme, dividends, of around $9 billion, almost and profit opportunities over the longer which will look to provide a more consistent, twice the market capitalisation of the term, in our two largest markets.
IHGs targeted experience around the world.
significant expertise in both these We will continue to drive the business Talented People markets and the scale of our operations forward through our preferred Brands, enabled us to launch these two new Great hotel brands need to deliver a talented People and best-in-class brands simultaneously, unprecedented consistent, branded experience to guests, Delivery systems, all underpinned by our in the industry.
and talented and passionate People are commitment to Responsible Business.
At IHG we are focussed New brands are exciting and have the In 2012 we continued to outperform the on ensuring our People deliver consistent potential to create value in the future and industry with strong RevPAR growth, with 6 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES Delivering Great Hotels Guests Love The IHG Owners Association is continuing to strengthen its alignment Preferred Talented Best-in-class with IHG weve been on this journey for Brands People Delivery nearly 60 years, and this latest chapter is perhaps the most exciting yet.
Responsible Business practice In autumn 2012, the Executive Committee of the IHG Owners Invest in growth Association and the IHG Executive Grow market share Sustainable margin growth Committee met in Oklahoma City to fashion a plan that launched this latest chapter.
Together we agreed to rene service, irrespective of ownership model.
industry-owned online hotel search the focus of our work and established This is a complex task and our success engine.
Revenues from mobile devices five key priorities around which to has required significant innovation and generated $330 million in 2012.
During organise our work: effort as we have worked hand-in-hand 2012, Holiday Inn was the first major 1. deliver the strongest brand portfolio with our owners to deliver on it.
hotel brand to launch a travel app on the in the industry: Windows 8 platform.
In 2012, 69 per cent Our suite of People Tools help our owners 2. deliver the strongest set of tools of total rooms revenue was delivered and General Managers to develop a in the industry: through IHGs channels, including our call BrandHearted culture, make IHG and its 3. develop the strongest approach centres and websites, and our awardhotels a great place to work and deliver the to standards in the industry: winning Priority Club Rewards programme.
brand promise to our guests.
To support 4. develop the strongest General This is the largest loyalty and rewards communities and aid recruitment we have Manager talent in the industry: and programme in the industry with 71.4 million developed the IHG Academy programme, 5. maintain the strongest reputation members worldwide and is a very which is a collaboration between IHG for doing business the right way.
important way in which we retain and hotels or corporate ofces and local reward loyal guests.
In 2012 Priority As a result of establishing these focussed education providers and or community Club Rewards members accounted for priorities, the IHG Owners Association organisations around the world, providing 41 per cent of the revenue generated in is reorganising its committee structure the opportunity to develop skills and our hotels.
Our scale advantage means to work towards this shared vision.
We Our goal is to work closely with IHG that we can offer guests more choice, celebrated the opening of our 150th IHG to increase owner margins by which better meet their needs, and this Academy in January this year and to date strengthening the IHG brands.
is a key driver of our outperformance.
over 10,000 participants have benefited We plan to begin by working in three from the IHG Academy programme.
Looking forward we remain confident.
specic areas: energise General Despite the uncertain economy in some We continue to be rewarded for our efforts Managers to be our brand promise markets, long-term travel trends are in this area and have been recognised in keepers: master the IHG revenue tools positive, particularly in developing The Sunday Times 25 Best Big Companies in every hotel: and relentlessly pursue markets such as China and Asia generally.
to Work For in 2012, as well as winning a these brand standards that matter.
The drivers of demand in the hotel number of other awards globally.
IHG owners are proud of their hotels, industry remain positive and IHG is and the IHG Owners Association is proud Best-in-class Delivery well-placed to benefit from these as we to work with IHG.
Our mutual focus on continue to deliver against our clearly IHG provides our hotels with a powerful strengthening the IHG brands gives us dened strategy with preferred Brands combination of best-in-class revenue the greatest opportunity to increase delivered by talented People and platforms, programmes and tools with hotel value and owner margins.
best-in-class Delivery systems, all which to drive profitable revenue to our Mike Hembree underpinned by our strong governance branded hotels what we call our System.
2013 Chairman structure and Responsible Business The scale and power of this System IHG Owners Association practices.
enables us to outperform by creating, converting, yielding and retaining demand.
We continue to lead industry innovation, and this can be seen in our progress with For information on the mobile and web booking solutions.
We are IHG Owners Association a founding member of roomkey.
com, Richard Solomons go to www.
org which was launched in 2012 as the first Chief Executive Chief Executives Review 7 Implementing our strategy Our strategy is to build preferred Brands with scale positions in the most attractive markets globally.
Concentrating growth in the largest markets means IHG and owners can operate more efficiently and benefit from enhanced revenues and reduced costs.
Strategy on track Competing in relevant consumer Our key markets include large developed segments markets such as the US, UK and Germany The hotel industry performed well last as well as emerging markets like China year, despite challenging economic The hotel industry is usually segmented and India.
The economic outlook according to price point.
IHG is focussed rooms in 26 countries, and signed a deteriorated over the course of 2012 with on the three segments that generate over further 53,812 rooms into our development increased concerns over the Eurozone 90 per cent of branded hotel revenue, pipeline across 33 countries.
As part of our and weaker performance in the US and namely midscale broadly three star, ongoing commitment to maintaining the China.
However, the hotel industry upscale mostly four star and luxury five quality of our Brands, we removed 16,288 demonstrated its resilience against this star.
However, to build preferred Brands, rooms during the year.
As at 31 December challenging economic background.
we believe we need to advance our 2012, IHG had the second largest pipeline Globally, industry revenue per available understanding of our guests and their in the industry, with 169,030 rooms in room RevPAR increased by 4.5 per cent needs to ensure our Brands remain 1,053 hotels across 60 countries and against a 5.9 per cent increase in 2011. contemporary and relevant.
This represents a market IHG performed well against these market We have therefore completed a share of 12 per cent of all hotels under conditions, with global RevPAR growth fundamental occasion-based needs development, including those that are in 2012 of 5.2 per cent.
segmentation analysis to understand why independent or unafliated.
IHG opened 33,922 rooms 226 new hotels guests book hotels looking at who they In China, IHG sees the greatest opportunity worldwide in 2012 and, with 675,982 rooms are, the occasion they are travelling for for growth of any single country.
In a 4,602 hotels, IHG holds the largest and their needs when travelling.
Many country with 659,000 branded hotel share of branded rooms in the industry, guests no longer have a single purpose rooms, IHG is the largest international currently approximately 9 per cent of for their hotel stay, for example, business hotel company with over 61,000 rooms branded supply, distributed across nearly trips turn into family holidays, and we across our brands and more than 50,000 in 100 countries and territories.
need to meet these demands, focussing the planning phase or under construction.
more on the needs of our guests, to The benets of a brand, such as the IHG is also focussed on developing in deliver loyalty and brand preference.
greater security and performance of other high priority markets.
We seek to We used this analysis to develop the a global reservation system, loyalty develop our portfolio of Brands in those brand proposition for our two new programmes and international networks, markets which will be sources of strong brands, HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts and are clear to many owners and IHG is demand in the future.
For example, we EVEN Hotels, and we continue to work on well-positioned to win the business of increased the distribution of our core this needs-based segmentation to help owners seeking to grow with a hotel brand.
brands in India, building upon our inform our view of the hotel market and IHG closely monitors markets across leadership position of Holiday Inn.
In Russia our brand strategies going forward.
the globe and follows key industry and and the Commonwealth of Independent business metrics to ensure our strategy States, there are opportunities for new Competing in the most continues to be sustainable in the construction and conversions, as well as attractive markets changing business environment and strong demand for branded hotels.
IHG Our strategy is to build preferred Brands suitable for our capabilities.
continues to adapt its business model by with scale positions in the most attractive market, choosing partnerships and joint Our strategy, to build preferred Brands markets globally.
Concentrating growth ventures where appropriate.
with scale positions in the most attractive in the largest markets means IHG and markets globally, remains rmly on track.
owners can operate more efficiently and benefit from enhanced revenues and reduced costs.
8 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES Left Hotel Indigo New York CityChelsea, US Bottom Crowne Plaza Phuket Panwa Beach Resort, Thailand Far bottom InterContinental Century City Chengdu, China Left With a portfolio of preferred Where we compete How we win Brands in the most attractive markets, our talented People Portfolio of preferred Brands Relevant consumer segments are focussed on delivering Great Hotels Guests Love Talented People and executing a clear set of Most attractive markets Best-in-class Delivery priorities to achieve our Vision of becoming one of the great Appropriate business model Responsible Business companies in the world The scale of our business allows us to Our business model In China, IHG sees the greatest concentrate on building strong Delivery Whatever the external economic climate, systems such as our branded hotel opportunity for growth of any it is the inherent strengths of our websites and call centres, which in turn single country.
In a country with asset-light fee based business model create greater returns for owners.
that keep us in good shape.
659,000 branded hotel rooms, IHG A key characteristic of the franchised is the largest international hotel The model is focussed on franchising and and managed business model is that it is managing hotels, rather than owning company with over 61,000 rooms highly cash generative, with a high return them.
We currently have 85 per cent across our brands and more than on capital employed.
It enables us to franchised hotels, 14 per cent managed 50,000 in the planning phase or focus on growing our fee revenue and hotels and less than one per cent owned fee based margins.
In 2012, 86 per cent under construction.
This enables us to of Group operating profit before regional grow at an accelerated pace with limited and central overheads and exceptional capital investment, and means that IHG items was derived from franchised and can focus on building strong, preferred managed operations.
In some situations, Brands based on relevant consumer we support our brands by using capital to needs, leaving asset management and build or support the funding of agship real estate to local third-party owners assets in high-demand locations in order with the necessary expertise.
With this to drive growth.
We plan to recycle capital asset-light approach, IHG itself benets by selling these assets when the time from the reduced volatility of fee based is right, to reinvest elsewhere in the income streams as compared with the business and across our portfolio.
We continue to invest for growth, strengthening both our existing brands and launching new ones.
Implementing our strategy 9 Our business model and revenue delivery systems We run hotels in three ways: franchised, managed and owned.
Our business model Brand Marketing and Hotel Staff ownership distribution ownership IHG capital IHG income Franchised IHG IHG Third-party Third-party None Fee % of rooms This is the largest part of our revenue business: 3,934 hotels operate under franchise agreements Managed IHG IHG IHG usually Third-party Low none Fee % of total supplies revenue plus We manage 658 hotels COPY TO COME General % of profit worldwide Manager as a minimum Owned and leased IHG IHG IHG IHG High All revenues and profits We own 10 hotels worldwide less than one per cent of our portfolio Our revenue delivery systems at a glance Scale Brand portfolio Priority Club Rewards Web Mobile 4,602 hotels Nine preferred 71.4 million members, 13 language sites 157 million room nights hotel brands contributing over $7.2 billion to six language apps annually global system rooms revenue Revenue Management Food and beverage World-class Over $4.7 billion of food 69% systems and beverage revenue and room revenue delivery over 4,500 outlets worldwide Reservations systems Market coverage Sales force System Fund 10 call centres In nearly 100 countries 17,600 sales professionals Annual fund totalling $1.2 billion 12 languages and territories 2,020 accounts to maintain marketing and systems that generate demand for our hotels 10 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES How we win At IHG, were focussed on winning through our strong portfolio of nine hotel Brands, our talented People who deliver our brand promise and bring our Brands to life for our guests, and our best-in-class Delivery systems that enable us to leverage our scale.
Hotel Indigo Atlanta Midtown, US Our business model and revenue delivery systems and How we win 11 Brands Bigger, better and stronger brands.
Each of our brands needs to deliver a superior and consistent experience to that offered by competitors.
Guests value a quality, branded hotel experience and will pay a premium price.
Superior and consistent brand experiences deliver a better return on investment to us and to our owners who choose to operate under our brands.
Top left Hotel Indigo Shanghai on the Bund, China Top right Crowne Plaza Changi Airport, Singapore Bottom right Hotel Indigo London-Tower Hill, UK A brand is a promise.
It says: I promise that if you buy this brand, you will get this experience.
And that is what we have to consistently deliver.
Larry Light Chief Brands officer 12 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES InterContinental Hotels & Resorts page 14 Holiday Inn brand family page 16 Crowne Plaza Hotels & Resorts page 20 Hotel Indigo page 22 Staybridge Suites page 24 Candlewood Suites page 26 HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts page 28 EVEN Hotels page 29 IHGs priority is that each of our brands Stronger We will continue to clarify and differentiate becomes bigger, better and stronger.
our vision for each of our brands to deliver By stronger, we mean brand preference better results through more effective among guests and owners, investors Bigger customisation, localisation and even and employees.
It is a major strategic The major engine for a sustainable personalisation of the brands within IHGs priority for IHG.
growth in profits has been our System strong portfolio.
Strong brands have a huge advantage.
Weve been establishing brand As brand preference goes up, price There is competitive advantage to being frameworks for each of our hotel brands sensitivity goes down.
We have more rooms in more to further define their strategic direction, think it is worth paying a premium for locations and operationally there are brand promise, guiding principles, brand their first choice brand.
Their willingness economies of scale.
It makes us more identity, design and service guidelines.
to recommend and their brand loyalty efficient.
There are also power of scale increase as we give them reasons Unlike packaged goods, our branded opportunities to be more effective.
Our to believe in our brand promise.
experiences are not manufactured in a best-in-class Delivery systems mean that factory.
Our branded experiences are we can try new things.
If they work, we can Building brand preference brought to life in the hotel.
We are undertaking some significant actually experience is the only relevant Furthermore, size enables us to develop work to help us build brand preference.
reality and brand preference is created areas of specialist expertise for With our goal of building bigger, better one guest at a time, in each hotel, each example, we have situated our global and stronger brands, to keep them day, face-to-face.
This means that the resorts team in Bangkok, which is at the contemporary and relevant, we are ultimate brand manager is the hotel heart of a great resort location, to further improving our knowledge of our guests.
Therefore, we are develop our resorts strategy.
We will be doing this through market investing resources to ensure that segmentation.
Classifying our brands our General Managers can deliver our In order to generate more effectiveness, in conventional industry terms such as brand promise.
consistency and efficiency from our upper upscale means nothing to guests.
Our strong portfolio of preferred Brands marketing, we will be streamlining our Upper upscale or the nuance between a are key to IHGs success.
In 2013, we will processes to ensure better integration limited-service hotel and a select-service continue to innovate and develop our of global brand plans worldwide.
hotel are categories that guests dont buy.
established and new hotel brands to meet Better the evolving needs of our guests, as well Needs are occasion-based.
And these as create value for our owners and It is vital that we continually review vary enormously.
Do you have children shareholders.
everything we do in order to improve with you?
This includes Is this a business trip?
Is it a weekday improving the consistent delivery of our or the weekend?
Weve completed a guest experience, differentiating and fundamental occasion-based needs innovating our Brands, addressing guest segmentation analysis to give us a better complaints, managing our talented People guests eye view and expectation of the and relationships with owners, and hotel and resort market.
understanding a guests needs, wants, Going forward, we will use this work concerns and worries.
to inform our brand strategies.
This is a key area of focus.
Our Brands regularly win industry awards in guest satisfaction, and these awards provide external recognition that we understand how to deliver Great Hotels Guests Love.
Brands 13 InterContinental Hotels & Resorts InterContinental Hotels & Resorts is IHGs most established brand, having been on the international scene for over 60 years.
With a presence in over 60 countries, found in most of the worlds key cities and many resort locations, the brand is growing at pace and continues to expand around the globe.
InterContinental Hotels & Resorts InterContinental Resort in Australia, and Looking forward to 2013, we are preparing well-travelled, afuent guests want to joins our network of InterContinental to cut the ribbon at 12 InterContinental be connected to what is special about a hotels in the Australasia region, including Hotels & Resorts including InterContinental destination and appreciate the brands Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Wellington Davos Resort & Spa in Switzerland and understated service and style.
InterContinental Marseille-Hotel Dieu member shares their knowledge so that in France.
Adding to our city portfolio, we opened guests can enjoy authentic experiences InterContinental Doha-The City and Focus on global brand marketing and make the most of their time with us.
Presidente InterContinental Santa Fe In 2012, we strengthened our integrated Mexico.
We also opened InterContinental Opening our doors since 1946 global marketing activity.
Firstly, we London-Westminster in November 2012 in In 2012, we opened six more world-class launched a new brand website.
Users of a superbly renovated 19th century properties in key locations.
com can now explore landmark building close to many of celebrated three fantastic additions to InterContinental Hotels & Resorts Londons most iconic sites.
This new our resorts portfolio, further cementing properties via lters like location, interest hotel ensures IHGs continued presence InterContinental Hotels & Resorts as one or hotel type.
Secondly, we launched two in one of the worlds key cities.
of the worlds most respected luxury hotel new global brand advertising campaigns.
We also announced 10 signings including brands.
These were InterContinental The first highlighted our new resorts in properties in Jakarta and Oman.
The Samui Baan Taling Ngam Resort in Asia, and the second promoted our signing of the InterContinental Phuket Thailand, InterContinental Danang Sun industry-leading Concierge Service, Rawai Beach Resort marks our third Peninsula Resort in Vietnam and featuring our Chef Concierges from key InterContinental Resort in Thailand.
InterContinental Sanctuary Cove Resort city hotels sharing authentic experiences in Australia.
The latter is IHGs first of their favourite places.
14 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES intercontinental.
com Far left InterContinental Danang Sun Peninsula Resort, Vietnam Right InterContinental Doha-The City, Qatar Top far right InterContinental LondonWestminster, UK Bottom far right InterContinental Hotels & Resorts advertising campaign Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Americas 53 17,756 4 Europe 30 9,394 2 AMEA 65 20,791 20 Greater China 22 9,373 22 Total 170 57,314 48 The scent of luxury Awards Every team member shares their We are delighted to have launched our InterContinental Hotels & Resorts knowledge so that guests can enjoy exclusive global collaboration with continues to be recognised as one of the authentic experiences and make Agraria, Americas oldest and largest worlds leading hotel brands.
At the 2012 the most of their time with us.
luxury home fragrance brand, to World Travel Awards, InterContinental provide guest amenities to all of our Hotels & Resorts was named the Worlds InterContinental Hotels & Resorts around Leading Hotel Brand for the fourth the world.
Agraria has a shared heritage consecutive year, as well as the Worlds with InterContinental Hotels & Resorts Leading Business Hotel Brand for the dating back to the 1970s, when it opened second year running.
The brand was its first boutique on Nob Hill in San also awarded Best Business Hotel Brand Francisco, near InterContinental Mark in the World at the 2012 Business Hopkins San Francisco, the brands first Traveller Awards Asia-Pacic for the hotel in North America.
Agraria products third year running.
can now be found at the nest retail stores around the world.
InterContinental Hotels & Resorts 15 Holiday Inn brand family The Holiday Inn brand family, comprising Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn Express, Holiday Inn Resort and Holiday Inn Club Vacations, represents the largest number of rooms and fee revenue for IHG.
And as part of our 60th anniversary celebration in 2012, we claried the vision for each of the members of the family ensuring we make them ever more relevant for todays and tomorrows travellers.
Each of the brands in the Holiday Inn Holiday Inn Holiday Inn Resort brand family share the same DNA as Many of the things we now take for The Holiday Inn Resort brand offers an their powerful parent brand Holiday Inn.
granted in hotels today were revolutionary effortless choice for a relaxing break.
However, each one is distinctive, has its when the Holiday Inn brand first launched Time away is important to our guests so own identity, and appeals to different them over the last 60 years.
Our guests they dont want to worry about every little guest needs on different travel occasions.
appreciate innovation, but they also want detail when going on holiday.
They want to The Holiday Inn brand family hosts over to be comfortable, both emotionally and relax in an environment that is safe and 100 million guest nights each year.
That physically, and thats what makes the inviting, where everyone has activities they means every second, two people check-in Holiday Inn brand different.
The Holiday enjoy and they discover indulgent touches to a Holiday Inn brand family hotel.
Inn brand promise is to deliver comfort along the way.
in a way that is new, yet familiar.
Holiday Inn Club Vacations Holiday Inn Express Our Holiday Inn Club Vacations brand Our hotels are designed with savvy provides guests with all of the benets travellers in mind.
They want a of a vacation home with none of the straightforward, uncomplicated hassle.
While staying with us they dont experience, delivered in an engaging have to compromise on space or their manner.
A hotel that provides them with daily routines.
just what they need, enabling them to manage their money wisely and stay smart.
16 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES holidayinn.
com Holiday Inn Saskatoon Downtown, Canada holidayinnresorts.
com Below Holiday Inn LondonStratford City, UK Holiday Inn Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Americas 793 138,720 134 Europe 285 46,248 20 AMEA 61 14,129 43 Greater China 61 19,884 34 Total 1,200 218,981 231 Holiday Inn The June 2012 opening of the 188-room Our guests appreciate innovation, Holiday Inn London-Stratford City Celebrating 60 years around the world but they also want to be overlooking the Olympic Park was one 2012 marked the 60th anniversary of the of the brands most notable openings comfortable, both emotionally and iconic Holiday Inn brand, coinciding with the during the year.
physically and thats what makes end of its $1 billion global brand refresh, In the Olympic and Paralympic Village the Holiday Inn brand different.
the results of which have seen the brands itself, more than 90 Holiday Inn team performance go from strength to strength.
members from around the world were As well as celebrating being 60 we opened given the opportunity to help deliver our 60th hotel in Greater China.
Hotel The Holiday Inn brand was also ranked and corporate ofce representatives were Highest in Guest Satisfaction Among own in from China, the Philippines, the Midscale Full Service Hotel Chains, US, Australia, Kenya, Serbia, as well as the Two Years in a Row by J. D. Power and UK for this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
The sponsorship of the Olympic and A winning year Paralympic Games has provided exciting As ofcial hotel provider to the London momentum for the Holiday Inn brand with 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, over 50 per cent of Holiday Inn guests the spotlight was also on the Holiday Inn who saw the sponsorship campaign brand throughout the year.
saying they are more likely to stay with us again.
Holiday Inn brand family 17 Holiday Inn Express Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Americas 1,931 168,398 345 Europe 212 24,903 43 AMEA 12 2,877 35 Greater China 37 9,453 29 Total 2,192 205,631 452 Holiday Inn Express The Holiday Inn Express Bangkok Siam Distinctive service in Thailand launched in June 2012 and As part of IHGs drive to increase the Growing at pace represents the brands first foray into differentiation between the Holiday Inn Holiday Inn Express is one of the largest Southeast Asia, a region with huge and Holiday Inn Express brands, we have and fastest growing brands in the industry, potential.
Our expansion plans include been developing new brand-specic opening hotels at the rate of two per week further properties in Thailand, Indonesia, service behaviours for Holiday Inn Express.
Singapore and Malaysia over the next A number of hotels in each of our regions The brand saw the opening of 114 new few years.
Indonesia is a particularly were involved in the validation process properties in 2012.
There are currently important growth market for us.
There for the new service behaviours, and 2,192 Holiday Inn Express hotels are currently 18 hotels in the Holiday Inn development work began on training 205,631 rooms around the world.
Express pipeline scheduled to open over programmes that will be delivered the next two years in Southeast Asia, of through an eLearning platform.
These which 12 will be in Indonesia.
programmes will be rolled out in 2013.
The brand is also continuing to expand across the broader Asia region, including in Greater China and India.
The Holiday Inn Express Ahmedabad opened in India as a country first for the brand.
In the Middle East, the launch of Holiday Inn Express Bahrain in August 2012 marked our debut in the Gulf state.
18 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES Far left Holiday Inn Express Bangkok Siam, Thailand Left Holiday Inn Resort Kandooma Maldives Holiday Inn Resort Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Americas 17 4,240 5 Europe 3 362 0 AMEA 14 3,311 4 Greater China 3 893 3 Total 37 8,806 12 Holiday Inn Club Vacations Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Americas 10 3,701 0 Europe 0 0 0 AMEA 0 0 0 Greater China 0 0 0 Total 10 3,701 0 Holiday Inn Resort Holiday Inn Club Vacations Our expansion plans include More places to relax More vacation options further properties in Thailand, The guests who choose the The tremendous strength of the Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia Holiday Inn Resort brand work hard, Holiday Inn brand continues to fuel over the next few years.
Indonesia but also want to lead a balanced life.
expansion of Holiday Inn Club Vacations is a particularly important growth That is why we continue to grow and give in North America.
them more places to relax.
The number of Holiday Inn Club Vacations The brand had a great year in The properties have more than doubled since Americas, supported by brand-specic its launch year in 2008, expanding the marketing campaigns.
Four properties portfolio in 2012 to 10 properties with the opened in The Americas in 2012, including opening of three new resorts, including two in Oregon, bringing the total number a new 658-room resort in Las Vegas.
Five more are in the pipeline, including resorts in the Cayman Islands, Mexico and Florida, as well as further expansion planned in California.
We also saw our third Holiday Inn Resort opening in Greater China with the Holiday Inn Resort Chaohu Hot Spring.
In total in 2012, we opened seven Holiday Inn Resort properties around the world.
Holiday Inn brand family 19 Crowne Plaza Hotels & Resorts The Crowne Plaza brand is the fourth largest full-service hotel brand in the upper segments, with nearly 400 hotels and resorts in 66 countries.
It continues to succeed with business travellers who are high achievers that strive to be successful in everything they do.
The Crowne Plaza brand provides the facilities and service they need to help them on their upward journey.
Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Americas 183 48,730 16 Europe 84 19,566 12 AMEA 65 18,559 18 Greater China 60 21,452 52 Total 392 108, 307 98 Strengthening the brand In addition, quality audits have been locations in major urban centres, carried out at almost all Crowne Plaza gateway cities and resort destinations, Having doubled its size in a decade to hotels in The Americas and Europe.
the Crowne Plaza brand is now Greater nearly 400 hotels.
IHG is now ensuring Where deficiencies have been identied, Chinas largest upscale international that each Crowne Plaza hotel meets action is being taken to rectify them and hotel brand.
our standards and our guests high sub-standard hotels are exiting from More than half of the brands global expectations.
development pipeline 52 hotels will open The repositioning remains a top priority Next comes the Move Up phase, where in Greater China in the next three to five for IHG and the IHG Owners Association, the focus will be on ensuring consistency years, further proof that the brand is and momentum continues to build.
The and evolution of the guest experience, growing bigger in this region.
repositioning of the Crowne Plaza brand and driving brand performance through In September 2012, we opened Hong is a three-phase, multi-year repositioning marketing and sales.
Kongs second Crowne Plaza hotel, programme.
The Shine phase will introduce new Crowne Plaza Hong Kong Kowloon East, As part of the Freshen Up phase, owners brand hallmarks, which will set the which is at the heart of the emerging have invested in new programmes, Crowne Plaza brand apart from our commercial and residential Tseung including a new brand-specic service competitors.
This phase is not something Kwan O town centre.
training programme that ensures our well start and stop: we must continue to guests receive the same quality service In the AMEA region, we opened two innovate and differentiate the guest and attention at every Crowne Plaza hotel resorts in 2012: the Crowne Plaza Phuket experience in order to make the brand worldwide.
Bringing the brand to life Panwa Beach Resort in Thailand and the shine each and every day.
through our People and being one step Crowne Plaza Jordan Dead Sea Resort ahead is what truly sets us apart from & Spa.
Growing in China our competitors.
The One Step Ahead In 2012, the opening of eight new programme enables employees to Crowne Plaza hotels in Greater China anticipate the needs of guests and brought our total to 60.
With existing provides quality across all of our hotels.
20 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES crowneplaza.
com Far left Crowne Plaza Hong Kong Kowloon East Left Crowne Plaza DublinBlanchardstown, Ireland Below Crowne Plaza Changi Airport, Singapore Checking-in to sustainability Green Engage, our online sustainability More than half of the brands global The Crowne Plaza brand is delivering a platform, helps hotels track, manage development pipeline 52 hotels better and more sustainable future thanks and reduce the use of energy, carbon will open in Greater China in the to IHGs Green Engage programme.
and water and the management of next three to five years, further waste in hotel properties, thereby During 2012, Green Engage was rolled proof that the brand is growing assisting hotels in saving money on out to the Crowne Plaza brand.
programme not only helps the hotel run bigger in this region.
more efficiently energy savings of up to 25 per cent have been achieved but also makes the brand more attractive to corporate customers who are increasingly requiring hotels to be green.
Hotels have replaced everything from light bulbs to water heaters with less energy intensive alternatives, ensuring that the brand stands out strongly amidst competitors in  efficiency.
Crowne Plaza Hotels & Resorts 21 Hotel Indigo IHG has always been clear about who the guests of the Hotel Indigo brand are, and what they want.
They are upscale and well-travelled.
They appreciate art and design, the latest fashion and new experiences.
They are looking for the individuality and style of a boutique hotel, but also want the reliability and consistency of a big brand company.
Reaching the 50th hotel milestone The pipeline includes planned openings Making the most of the neighbourhood in 2013 in other key European cities, As the worlds first global boutique hotel No two Hotel Indigo hotels are the same.
including St. Petersburg, Madrid and brand, IHG opened 13 new Hotel Indigo Each is specically designed to reect the Barcelona, with Birmingham, Manchester properties during 2012: six in The Americas, vibrant culture, character and history of and Hamburg to follow.
five in Europe and two in Greater China.
its surrounding neighbourhood, which includes local food and drink menus In December 2012, the Hotel Indigo brand Focusing on quality growth sourced from local suppliers.
reached its 50th hotel milestone since With a strong global appetite for the its launch in 2004 with the openings of Close links with the neighbourhood brand, IHGs focus is on quality growth Hotel Indigo London Kensington-Earls are fundamental to the brand.
Therefore, in priority markets and gateway cities.
Court and Hotel Indigo New Orleans we have launched a series of interactive, This will be achieved together with the Garden District.
online Neighbourhood Guides that right owner and property thats situated in feature a collection of hyper-local The roll-out of the brand in Europe is the right neighbourhood with residential, recommendations of things to see, gathering pace, with 10 new hotels since commercial, pedestrian and cultural do, taste, drink, hear and buy near to it was introduced in the region in 2008. representation.
The pipeline currently the hotel.
In 2012, the first Hotel Indigo property stands at 47 hotels, with the estate set to in Continental Europe launched in double in size to 100 within the next three Kurfuerstendamm, Berlin in February, to five years.
Other expected openings in and the overall number of the hotels 2013 and 2014 include in Riyadh, Tel Aviv, in Europe doubled to a total of 10.
Hong Kong, Bangkok, Phuket and New York City.
22 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES hotelindigo.
com Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Far left Americas 37 4,307 23 Hotel Indigo London KensingtonEarls Court, UK Europe 10 949 13 Below left AMEA 0 0 6 Hotel Indigo San Diego Del Mar, US Greater China 3 405 5 Below right Total 50 5,661 47 Hotel Indigo Tianjin Haihe, China Award-winning In 2012, the first Hotel Indigo We continue to win awards Hotel Indigo property in Continental Europe Shanghai on the Bund was named Best launched in Kurfuerstendamm, Boutique Hotel in Asia-Pacic at the 2012 Berlin in February, and the overall Business Traveller Asia-Pacic Awards, a real achievement, and Hotel Indigo number of the hotels in Europe San Diego Gaslamp Quarter featured doubled to a total of 10. as one of the Top 25 Hotels in Southern California in the Cond Nast 2012 Readers Choice Awards.
Hotel Indigo 23 Staybridge Suites An extended time away from home for business, relocation or holiday should provide travellers with a warm and welcoming environment and the modern comforts of home-like surroundings.
This is why travellers choose the Staybridge Suites brand.
At Staybridge Suites hotels, IHG provides Colour and conviviality The Outdoor Living Room, another upscale travellers with the best of Staybridge Suites feature, was also As part of a multi-million dollar renovation home and hotel, all in a comfortable renovated with all-weather furniture and programme with owner Hospitality environment with spacious studios and re pits, enhancing the community feel Properties Trust, 17 Staybridge Suites two-bedroom suites.
hotels managed by IHG were extensively With 11 openings during 2012, there A further enhancement in 2012 was the renovated during 2012, with renovations at are now 189 Staybridge Suites hotels in launch of the Staybridge Suites Bedding two more hotels to come.
Using distinctive The Americas, Europe and AMEA with Collection for all properties in North ranges of colours, patterns and textures, another 71 in the pipeline.
The new bedding offers a more the environment of these properties is modernised look, an elevated guest more appealing than ever.
Notable openings for the Staybridge Suites perception and increased comfort.
brand during the year included in Stratford Included in the renovations were all areas City, London in the UK, Hamilton, Ontario of the hotel, from the suites to the public in Canada and North Brunswick, New spaces and outdoor areas.
Renovations Jersey in the US.
in social areas, such as the Great Room, encompassed the additions of the Gathering Table and more comfortable seating, which are central to the brands concept of providing spaces where guests can socialise with each other, especially during breakfast and The Social evening reception.
24 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES staybridgesuites.
com From far left to right Hotels in Staybridge Suites Reno, Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Nevada, US Americas 183 19,787 64 Staybridge Suites Europe 4 605 1 Newcastle, UK The Social, the AMEA 2 304 6 evening reception at Greater China 0 0 0 Staybridge Suites Total 189 20,696 71 The Great Room at Staybridge Suites Tyler University Area, Texas, US Socialising at Staybridge Suites hotels Engaging through social media Gold standard While guests tend to their own Guests staying in hotels for weeks or even In June 2012 well in time for the schedules during an extended stay months at a time often face challenges London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic at Staybridge Suites hotels, there are while away from home.
In an effort to Games we opened Staybridge Suites times when they want to leave their help make this easier for our guests, London-Stratford City.
Steps away suites and socialise with their colleagues the Staybridge Suites brand launched a from the Olympic Park, the hotel is also or other guests.
To facilitate this, the campaign in 2012 to provide useful tips, at the core of Europes largest urban brand has an evening reception, The tricks and hints so guests could master shopping centre.
Social, which is held in every hotel three The Art of Traveling Solo.
The global Its a location with immediate appeal for times a week and provides complimentary campaign, which featured celebrity chef business and leisure travellers.
Public food and drink in the public areas inside and television personality G. Garvin, transport links connect Stratford to the and out.
Guests can relax in settings that included an interactive Facebook City of London and all of the attractions of incorporate stacked stone replaces, application with videos and helpful Londons West End in a matter of minutes.
high-denition televisions and landscaped suggestions.
Consumers engaged with Co-located with the new Holiday Inn gardens, while meeting other Staybridge the campaign during live Facebook and London-Stratford City, this new Suites guests.
In 2012, the Staybridge Twitter chats, sharing their own tips on Staybridge Suites hotel takes rooms Suites brand enhanced The Social with topics including how to make a quick, for the brand to 422 in the UK.
new food and beverage offerings including tasty meal in a hotel suite kitchen and healthier, customisable options.
These how to pack for an extended trip.
enhancements were launched at all hotels in North America.
As a result guest participation and overall satisfaction have increased across the brand.
Staybridge Suites 25 Candlewood Suites North American-based Candlewood Suites brand is IHGs midscale extended stay brand, where guests turn for all the comforts and conveniences of home when, for whatever reasons, home is temporarily left behind.
Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Americas 299 28,675 78 Europe 0 0 0 AMEA 0 0 0 Greater China 0 0 0 Total 299 28,675 78 Candlewood Suites hotels fully-equipped The improvements included new kitchen Where the heart is studios and one-bedroom suites offer and bathroom designs created in Great hosts have pride and passion in their more space for guests to stretch out conjunction with graduate students at premises and the service and experience and relax and provide independence one of North Americas top interior design they offer.
At Candlewood Suites hotels, and privacy, with on-site amenities and schools.
The theme throughout is based where guests may stay for months at services always available as needed.
on the concept of a Candlewood Suites a time, the guest experience is crucial hotel as a haven.
That is why we initiated Higher guest satisfaction, With attractive lighting, natural colour the BrandHearted Service Training higher returns palettes, striking artwork, atscreen programme in August 2012.
In 2012 we opened 12 new hotels, televisions and storage provisions, the This ongoing programme provides service including the Candlewood Suites in renovated suites, as well as the renovated training to help to enable team members North Little Rock, Arkansas: San Diego, lobby areas and facades, are more at every level of the hotel to bring the California: and Fredericksburg, Virginia.
appealing than ever to guests who might brand to life and consistently deliver a Therefore we now have nearly 300 spend weeks or even months with us.
BrandHearted guest experience to set Candlewood Suites hotels in The During the year we also refreshed and us apart from our competitors.
Americas with 78 in the pipeline.
As modernised the brands Comforts of Success will be measured in terms of part of a multi-million dollar renovation Home Bedding Collection.
This is improvements to guest satisfaction, programme with owner, Hospitality driving satisfaction with our guests and market share and revenue.
Properties Trust, 59 Candlewood Suites contributing to a more comfortable, hotels managed by IHG were extensively home-like stay.
renovated during 2012, with two more With these new initiatives, we believe hotels to complete renovations in 2013. overall satisfaction will increase and the brand is well-positioned to achieve uplift in average daily rates and RevPAR.
26 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES candlewoodsuites.
com Far Left Candlewood Suites North Little Rock, Arkansas, US Left Candlewood Suites St. Joseph, Missouri, US Below The new Lending Locker at Candlewood Suites Encouraging guests to feel free Great hosts have pride and passion A trust system has always prevailed at in their premises and the service Candlewood Suites hotels.
At The Candlewood Cupboard has long Candlewood Suites hotels, where been a convenient place for guests to guests may stay for months at feel free to stock up on essentials as well as treats.
As an integral part of a time, the guest experience is our home-like hotel, all snacks, easy to crucial to our success.
prepare meals, beverages and non-food items are available around the clock on the honour system.
In fact our guests appreciate this notion of trust so much, it will extend into the newly launched Lending Locker.
There, guests can borrow items they might use frequently at home, such as coffee grinders, rice cookers and blenders.
We are gradually introducing the new Lending Locker to all of our Candlewood Suites hotels.
Candlewood Suites 27 HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts IHG launched the HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts brand in March 2012, the first-ever upscale international brand designed specically for Chinese guests focussing on the unique aspects of Chinese etiquette, the importance of rejuvenation, status recognition and enabling spaces that reect local customs and heritage.
Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Americas 0 0 0 Europe 0 0 0 AMEA 0 0 0 Greater China 0 0 15 Total 0 0 15 HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts takes IHG is the largest international hotel HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts is a the best aspects of renowned Chinese operator in Greater China, with more brand created by our team in China hospitality and applies IHGs international than 180 hotels across 60 cities and a scale, powerful systems and unparalleled further 160 hotels in our pipeline.
With specically for Chinese guests, who insights into the Chinese market to 15 hotels already in the pipeline, the want a brand that has international consistently deliver what consumers HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts brand stature but yet responds to their expect in China today.
will not only enable us to continue to customs, traditions and tastes.
expand in Chinas key gateway cities, HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts is a brand but also drive growth in secondary cities created by our team in China specically where a specically Chinese offer is for Chinese guests who want a brand that particularly appealing.
has international stature but yet responds to their customs, traditions and tastes.
And we expect to be able to open hotels in major cities elsewhere in the world The growth opportunity presented by so that Chinese travellers can enjoy HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts is both the HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts internal and external.
The hotel industry experience abroad.
is projected to have continued strong growth, with tourism ofcially noted as one of the strategic pillar industries in the Governments 12th five-year plan, increased urbanisation, and emerging Above left middle class with more spending power: HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts while outbound trips from China are tea house, artist impression projected to grow from 10 million a year Above right to more than 100 million in the next HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts 10 to 15 years.
guest room, artist impression 28 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES EVEN Hotels IHG designed the EVEN Hotels brand to uniquely provide solutions evenhotels.
com for all aspects of both business and leisure travellers holistic wellness needs.
Our guests want to maintain their balance and well-being on the road and were here to help them.
Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Americas 0 0 1 Europe 0 0 0 AMEA 0 0 0 Greater China 0 0 0 Total 0 0 1 Launched in February 2012, EVEN Hotels The continued interest in wellness EVEN Hotels specically responds specically responds to extensive across industries further validates and to extensive customer research customer research that tells us guests demonstrates the need for the brand, and are frustrated with staying in hotels that reinforces our confidence in launching that tells us guests are frustrated do not meet their wellness lifestyle needs.
Initially, EVEN Hotels will from staying in hotels that do not With EVEN Hotels were not creating open hotels in the US, but we will continue meet their wellness lifestyle needs.
a new hotel segment, but rather staking to develop the brand further over time in our claim on the wellness space within order to grow wherever our customer is the mainstream lifestyle category.
Any and to reach a global market.
hotel brand can add a yoghurt parfait to The brand signed its first property in their menu, but thats far from delivering October 2012.
Located in the heart of a holistic wellness experience and service midtown Manhattan, it will be a agship culture that puts guests at ease and property for EVEN Hotels.
We expect to allows them to rest, eat, exercise and sign 100 EVEN Hotels in the US in the work on their own terms which is next five years in key markets including exactly what EVEN Hotels will do.
New York, Washington D. C. and San Francisco.
Above left An EVEN Hotels property, artist impression Above right EVEN Hotels exterior, artist impression HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts and EVEN Hotels 29 People The strength of our Brands relies on us having talented and passionate People.
So for us to deliver on our brand promises we need to hire and inspire talented people to service our guests and bring our brands to life.
Left Tiffany Chen, Jennifer Howard and Abdulla Al Rumithi Below More than 4,000 hotels across the globe participated in Celebrate Service week At the heart of our employer brand are our Winning Ways Being BrandHearted and experiences they need to move to the As well as continuing to drive awareness next level in their careers.
Additionally, around our People Tools, we have also Our Vision to become one of the great we continue to support our leaders every worked to make it easier for hotels to companies in the world requires us to day through our award-winning Leaders access them.
In 2012, we launched Hotel make our Brands bigger, better and Lounge, a contemporary way of sharing Solutions which provides hotels with stronger than ever before.
This means learning with our leaders online.
a single gateway to access the full suite growing our business by making our of People Tools.
Hotel Solutions also Brands the first choice for our guests An employer of choice encourages collaboration.
Our People play a key role Becoming an employer of choice is our System we are able to harness the by delivering our brand promises day in, dependent on us having a strong employer collective knowledge across all of our day out.
To achieve our Vision we need to brand.
This is why we invest time in hotels around the world, another example attract the very best people, harness their supporting our owners to meet the of us leveraging our System size for the passion and equip them with the right skills challenge of nding, developing and benefit of our hotels.
Since its launch, to give our guests a truly great experience.
retaining the very best people.
71 per cent of hotels have been using it Our leaders are central to our success, regularly, with General Managers saving We offer People Tools to our hotels.
they need to inspire their teams to put our an estimated three to four hours each These are a suite of practical tools to help Brands at the centre of every conversation, month on administrative tasks.
Hotels hotels hire, train, involve and recognise every idea and every decision they make.
using Hotel Solutions have also seen their employees.
So far 96 per cent of our In 2012, we introduced the Leadership improvements in guest satisfaction scores.
General Managers using them would Framework, which is our new global We are very proud of the external recommend them to others.
We believe approach to leadership at IHG.
This makes recognition we receive across the globe as this is a point of differentiation compared it easy for our People to understand what an employer of choice.
For example, in to our competitors.
great leadership looks like and what skills 30 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES Our People are the difference.
They bring our Brands to life.
Thats why we place so much focus and effort on ensuring they feel truly respected and valued.
We know that when our People feel loved they love our guests and our owners see the impact on business results.
Tracy Robbins Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Group Operations Support As further explained on page 35, as part of our Responsible Business practices, we continue to have a positive impact on the communities we serve through our IHG Academy programme.
This provides local people with the opportunity to build 2012, we featured in The Sunday Times Employee recognition and develop their skills and improve 25 Best Big Companies to Work For: Recognising achievement is an important their employment prospects.
With over received recognition for our employer driver of employee engagement for us and 150 IHG Academy programmes in 37 brand at the Personnel Today Awards thats why every year, through Celebrate countries around the world, it will help us 2012: were recognised as one of Indias Service week, we recognise our create a pipeline of potential recruits and Best Companies to Work For: won two colleagues for the great work they do to future talent.
awards recognising our graduate give our guests an enjoyable stay.
The One of the most important roles for development programmes: and were week, which was instigated by and run driving the success of our business is our recognised as being one of the 100 Best in partnership with the IHG Owners hotel General Managers.
This is why we Human Resource Management Association, this year saw more than are launching our new General Manager Companies in China.
Training programme designed to shift our mindset away from simply creating In 2012 we launched Bravo!, an online Employee engagement great hotel managers to developing great peer-to-peer recognition tool that gives When we listen to our People and respond Brand managers.
To have preferred our colleagues the means to publicly to their needs we drive better business Brands, we need the best General recognise each others work and efforts.
This was proven in a recent Managers in the industry.
Therefore, we We pride ourselves on our ability to study we commissioned that examined have invested heavily in our approach to recognise great BrandHearted behaviour the link between employee engagement hiring, training and developing them.
To date more than 25,000 and hotel performance.
The study found has been the focus of our shared agenda Bravos!
have been sent, proving our the difference in gross operating profit with the IHG Owners Association and we People really value the opportunity to be margin between hotels with highly are proud to have worked with them to able to give and receive recognition from engaged people compared to those with develop this programme, which will be their peers.
lower engagement to be as much as rolled-out initially to new Holiday Inn and seven percentage points.
It also showed Looking ahead Holiday Inn Express General Managers that when we compared hotels where from the first quarter of 2013.
To meet our growth targets and expand engagement had increased, against in emerging markets, in the next few We are also further strengthening IHGs those where it had not, we found that years, we need to nd an additional 90,000 performance culture in our corporate for every five percentage point increase BrandHearted colleagues people who ofces by better linking IHGs performance in engagement, there was, on average, can live and breathe our Brands, with the targets and reward.
Starting with our 70 cents of increased RevPAR.
That right personality to delight our guests.
senior leaders, we have amended the means for a 200-bed hotel, the RevPAR performance measures under our annual Perhaps one of the biggest recruitment increase could generate an additional incentive plan to align it more closely to challenges we face is how we leverage $50,000 of revenue per annum.
our strategic priorities of Brands, People the strength of our global employer brand 96 per cent of employees those directly and Delivery.
while being sensitive to the local markets employed by IHG and those working in in which our hotels operate.
In Greater At IHG, it is our People that delight our our managed hotels took part in our China, we have created a new recruitment guests and in turn keep our brand 2012 employee engagement survey.
The site in Mandarin and have launched career promises and help to build preference results were impressive with 94 per cent pages on social networking platforms for our Brands.
In 2013, we will continue to of respondents saying they are proud such as Weibo and Renren the number build capability to hire the very best people to work for IHG which is 20 per cent one social media platform amongst and equip them to give their best every higher than industry benchmarks.
Our college students in Greater China.
This is an exciting time to be at IHG as engagement scores continue to improve we commit to become one of the great year-on-year and we have seen an companies in the world.
18 percentage point increase across the Group in the last five years.
People 31 Delivery IHG has a powerful system of tools and programmes, including our brand websites, mobile applications, call centres around the world, award-winning loyalty programme and revenue management and sales processes.
All of these are designed to drive growth and profitable revenue into our hotels.
Driving profitable revenue The online experience has been expanding exponentially, and IHG is at the forefront.
When a hotel joins IHG, it connects to With a strong focus on search engines, we a powerful system of revenue platforms, manage more than eight million keywords programmes and tools designed to in multiple languages to direct travellers achieve a single outcome: driving to our brands when they research an profitable revenue.
Our online marketing profitable revenue creates a stronger programmes generated more than margin and greater returns for our owners.
$1.4 billion in total hotel revenue in 2012.
IHGs powerful revenue systems generate Add to this the results from our powerful 69 per cent of rooms revenues direct to search engine optimisation strategy, which our hotels globally.
And all of this sits on drove more than 26 per cent of the total a strong technology foundation that helps trafc to our websites in 2012, and you can IHG succeed in creating preferred Brands, see that we are a major player online.
driving revenue and enhancing owner Our mobile strategy has also been very returns.
Our system includes our global Technology is playing an even successful.
In just three years, our business-to-business sales programmes, greater role in differentiating revenues from mobile devices have grown online marketing strategies, reservations our business and our Brands, from $2.4 million in 2009 to more than channels, direct to consumer marketing providing best-in-class products $330 million in 2012, helping to lead the campaigns, revenue management tools way in which guests book.
and services to our guests, no and strong loyalty programme.
We deploy these systems and platforms We have the resources and systems to matter how and where they shop.
to better manage every step of the do what no one hotel could do on its own.
As consumers become more guest experience.
With a sophisticated database and connected and socially engaged analytical marketing approach, we offer in the digital world, IHG has Attracting travellers to our brands targeted campaigns based on guest recognised technology as a key A key part of our demand strategy preferences, marketing to the right guest enabler in delivering on our includes our sales teams, who are at the right time, with the right message cultivating those important business to drive them to book an IHG hotel.
to business relationships that drive Eric Pearson Turning online shoppers into buyers awareness, trial and usage of our brands Executive Vice President and among some of the highest volume guests.
Once we attract guests with our sales and Chief Information officer Our goal?
We want these companies to marketing efforts, we compel them to choose our Brands every time they travel.
Todays online shopping experience And were seeing success.
In 2012, our offers many ways to book and consumers sales teams managed more than 2,000 are comparing and shopping like never accounts globally, driving almost $5 billion before, so we have clear strategies in total hotel revenue, up 12 per cent to convert more shoppers into buyers compared to 2011. through our direct channels.
32 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES Our mission is to drive incremental, profitable revenues to our hotels so that our Brands outperform the industry and our To pique culinary interests, owners achieve higher returns.
we created an iPad app showcasing a collection Steven Sickel of recommended recipes Interim Global Head of Sales from top InterContinental Hotels & Resorts chefs and Distribution We offer content-rich brand websites The right room at the right price and engagement.
Membership in our that experienced more than 227 million Priority Club Rewards programme grew With over 157 million guest nights in visits in 2012 and generated nearly to more than 71 million up 13 per cent IHG hotels each year, it is essential for us $3.4 billion in total hotel revenue.
And Priority Club Rewards to price our hotels effectively to maximise continues to be heralded as best We work together with our hotels to owners returns.
by industry advocates being named ensure that we have the best offers and Thats why we have developed our Price Global Traveler magazines Best Hotel content on our websites to give the right Optimization tool, which supports hotels Rewards Program in 2012 for the eighth information needed to our guests to to make the best pricing decisions based consecutive year and winning Premier complete their booking.
We have on a variety of sophisticated algorithms Traveler magazines inaugural award for underscored the value of our brand that consider historical demand patterns, Best Hotel Loyalty Program.
websites with the launch of our Guest competitive pricing and forward Ratings and Reviews tool on our websites, economic indicators.
Technology with a purpose an integration of traveller reviews, which Additionally, in 2012 we created and IHG has been a leader in pioneering give guests additional information to make piloted pricing and revenue management technology that enables our business the hotel choice that is right for them.
tools to support hotels across other to interact more effectively, more often And to ensure that we are taking every pieces of their business including and in more ways with our customers.
opportunity to convert consumers online, meetings and food and beverage.
We focus on innovation that allows us to in 2012 IHG became a founding partner leverage technology to deliver a superior in roomkey.
com, an innovative new hotel Keep guests coming back guest experience while enhancing search engine that offers travellers At IHG, loyalty is led by our award-winning owner returns.
comprehensive information and a Priority Club Rewards programme, simplied search experience created which cultivates our guests into loyal, by six of the worlds leading hoteliers.
repeat customers and advocates of our This is an additional shop window for our brands.
Our loyal customers are our most hotels, making it easier for customers profitable customers they stay more to book.
frequently with IHG hotels, book their When our customers prefer to speak stays via lower-cost reservation channels with someone, our 10 call centres and engage in positive social conversation around the world are staffed with trained about our brands and hotels.
reservations agents ready to respond to Priority Club Rewards is an award-winning calls, emails and chats.
In 2012, our programme offering our members a vast global call centres answered more than array of point redemption opportunities.
23 million inbound contacts and drove This customer value proposition has more than $1.9 billion in total hotel translated into strong customer attraction revenue to our hotels.
Delivery 33 Responsible Business With over 4,600 hotels in nearly 100 countries and territories around the world, our commitment to being a Responsible Business is central to our Vision of being one of the great companies in the world.
Our People understand how important it is to champion and protect the trusted reputation of IHG and its brands and this is embedded in our culture.
Tourism plays a large role in the world and to achieve this, we require a clear stakeholders.
Safety and security is an economy and is an important source of brand framework.
Brand standards absolute requirement for any guest wealth for many countries, but we must are the foundations of a clear brand staying at our hotels.
Our award-winning acknowledge that our industry, like many framework for all our hotels and our risk management, safety and security others, faces increasing pressure to compliance teams ensure that our hotels training courses, toolkits and materials, balance its economic performance with deliver in accordance with our brand such as our Crisis and Incident Handling its social and environmental impacts.
Our brand safety standards are programmes, enable us to work together That is why, for us, Responsible Business also designed to assist hotels in providing to create safe and secure environments underpins each of our three strategic a safe and secure environment for our at all of our hotels and corporate ofces.
priorities of preferred Brands, talented guests and employees.
Dealing with risks These tools, processes and procedures People and best-in-class Delivery, which ranging from re and food hygiene to ensure a business based on a solid work together to determine How we win terrorism, our brand safety standards foundation with a commitment to doing to create Great Hotels Guests Love.
have been recognised as best-in-class.
the right thing for the benefit of all our Our team of risk managers is dedicated stakeholders.
We believe that being a Responsible to providing training and monitoring the Business is necessary to enable us to Corporate Responsibility CR implementation of our safety standards stay ahead of the competition and grow, for safe and secure hotels.
A big part of Responsible Business is creating value for all of our shareholders how IHG and our hotels act in our local and stakeholders in the long-term.
People communities and how we manage our Amongst other things, it offers us a huge At the core of being a Responsible environmental impact, what we call CR.
opportunity to innovate, create employment, Business is ensuring that the actions of all We treat it as a strategic business issue empower people to perform at their best of our employees working at our corporate and therefore believe CR only makes and feel good about what they do and drive ofces and hotels maintain our trusted sense if it aligns to our Vision.
We also value for our business.
Operating an ethical business believe that incorporating societal and Governance and leadership is vital to maintaining and protecting this environmental factors into our business trusted reputation and therefore we strategy and operations will play a vital Our Chairman and the Board provide continually keep under review our internal role in the long-term, both for our strong leadership and promote a policies, including our Code of Ethics and business and the travel and tourism Responsible Business culture, by Business Conduct, Competition, Data sector.
For that reason we aim to harness maintaining high standards in corporate Privacy and Anti-Bribery policies.
These the role hotels play in society to create governance, corporate responsibility CR are regularly communicated via eLearning shared value for our business, our guests and internal control and risk management.
and face-to-face training modules and the communities where we operate.
Supporting them is a range of Board promoting accountability and transparency.
Committees and a team of lawyers, We believe we can make tourism compliance specialists, chartered responsible by concentrating our CR Delivery secretaries, internal auditors and risk activities in two areas, the environment Having in place an effective system of managers.
The team, deliberately named and the local community, where we can internal controls and risk management is Business Reputation and Responsibility, make the most difference.
We aim to essential to being a Responsible Business.
continually work to monitor changes to make a difference through our three In making key business decisions the legal, regulatory compliance and CR core CR programmes: Green Engage, Board, Executive Committee and Audit concepts and implement the Boards IHG Academy and the IHG Shelter in a Committee work together to identify, internal controls and policies to ensure Storm Programme.
These programmes assess, prioritise and mitigate risks, that we, as a business, remain excellent have been designed so that they can be including strategic and operational risks.
implemented in any of our hotels and Such Committees rely heavily on our corporate ofces in any region.
Brands dynamic risk assessment and assurance mapping process and highly consistent Our Brands offer a promise and integral to internal audit methodology to provide an this is trust.
Trusted brands deliver a appropriate level of assurance for all superior and consistent brand experience 34 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES Being a Responsible Business will enable us to stay ahead of the competition and grow, creating value for all of our shareholders and stakeholders in the long-term.
Thats why Responsible Business underpins Brands, People and Delivery.
George Turner Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Company Secretary Green Engage IHG Academy IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme The environmental impact of our hotels The IHG Academy is a collaboration between Through the IHG Shelter in a Storm is managed through every stage of the individual IHG hotels or corporate ofces Programme our hotels receive guidance hotels lifecycle by Green Engage, our and local education providers and or on when and how best to respond when online sustainability management community organisations providing local natural or man-made disasters occur.
Green Engage provides hotel people with the opportunity to develop skills Our global partnership with CARE allows operators with advice on everything from and improve their employment prospects.
us to draw on expertise in humanitarian picking the most appropriate site and assistance and helps us nd appropriate Within a consistent global framework each selecting the most energy efficient partners in the area when disaster strikes, IHG Academy is unique and tailored to lighting for the hotel through to choosing directing help to where it is needed.
When meet the needs of local communities and responsible cleaning materials and a disaster occurs, funds from the IHG hotels around the world.
All IHG Academy providing employee training on Shelter Fund can be allocated to enable programmes have three things in common: environmental sustainability.
Use of our hotels to respond quickly and they operate together with local Green Engage can save up to 25 per cent effectively to support our guests, community organisations and or of energy usage and is truly beneficial for employees and the local community education providers: our hotels, guests and the environment.
with financial support, vital supplies they include a work experience placement, and accommodation.
Green Engage helps us track, manage giving participants skills and real and reduce the use of energy, carbon and The IHG Shelter Fund, a pool of funds experience of working in a hotel: and water and the management of waste in collated from fundraising from hotels and they include performance feedback our properties.
Green Engage helps us corporate ofces throughout the year, is a and a recruitment discussion, giving full our commitment to do business key element of the IHG Shelter in a Storm participants an opportunity to gain real responsibly and, in turn, this stops hotels Programme, enabling us to respond experience of the job interview process, losing money on energy costs.
Energy is quickly when disaster strikes, instead thereby improving their chances of nding the second biggest cost to hotels the of waiting to raise funds after the event.
a job in the hotel sector and in many average IHG hotel spends over $500,000 In 2012, $545,000 was raised for the cases, securing a job in an IHG hotel.
on energy usage each year.
Conducting IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme.
business responsibly also boosts sales as Participants who go through the IHG During 2012, the fund was put into Green Engage helps our hotels attract Academy come from all walks of life and action to support 10 disasters across six guests and corporate accounts who range from university graduates through countries, including in response to severe increasingly want a greener hotel stay.
to disadvantaged young people, reecting ooding and a cyclone in Fiji, Superstorm the range of careers, as well as opportunity Ultimately, we aim to create new and Sandy on the US East Coast, ooding in for progression, available at IHG.
better ways to design, build and run Manila and the UK, wildres in Colorado our hotels.
Over 2,260 hotels now use and Hurricane Isaac on the US Gulf Coast.
Currently we have more than 150 IHG Green Engage and our aim is to have On each occasion we assessed the Academy programmes in 37 countries around our entire estate tracking, managing damage to the IHG hotels and the impact the world, with the 150th opening recently and reporting its environmental impact on their employees and communities, and celebrated in Beijing, China in January 2013. over time.
allocated funds from the IHG Shelter Fund Our IHG Academy in Newham, East London, to help those affected.
established in 2012, supports the legacy of the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
Our ability to build skills and raise aspirations across hundreds of communities through this programme will continue to drive our commitment to the IHG Academy and help us transform hospitality for more www.
com sustainable communities and better lives.
com Responsible Business 35 Responsible Business continued Left InterContinental Resort Aqaba takes part in Responsible Business week 2012 Below IHG Academy launch in Newham, East London.
Attended by the UK Deputy Prime Minister, Nick Clegg, and Richard Solomons, Chief Executive Above Celebrating the 150th IHG Academy Stakeholder engagement External recognition opening, Beijing, China Our stakeholders play a key role in helping In 2012, we were: us identify and tackle our priorities, and awarded the Best Risk Training our strategy is to create shared value for Programme by the StrategicRisk our business and stakeholder groups.
We Management Awards 2012 for our engage with all our stakeholders, including risk management programme: shareholders, through a variety of channels, awarded the Bronze award at the 2012 including forums, meetings, individual Training Journal Awards for the Best interviews, surveys, reports and conferences.
Use of Technology in Learning: For detailed information on our approach named as one of the top 10 Innovative to CR and our key programmes, our Legal Departments by InsideCounsel online Corporate Responsibly Report magazine in the US: can be viewed at: awarded Silver Award in the Best Law www.
com Department category at the International responsibility General Counsels Awards: awarded the Global Business Travel Our newest channel, the IHG Planet CR Association Gold Medal Award for Facebook page, has quickly grown to a Sustainability: community of over 20,000 fans and awarded the Hotel Owners and provides a channel for us to raise Franchisees Transatlantic and awareness of our CR programmes daily European League Owner Friendly and actively engage in a two-way dialogue Innovation Award for Green Engage, with our stakeholders.
recognition that the programme is of value to our hotel owners: and www.
com  shortlisted for the World Environment Centre Award for Sustainability, making it to the final round with Green Engage commended.
36 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES Where we compete We operate 4,602 hotels and 675,982 rooms in nearly 100 countries and territories around the world.
Our business reects the prole of our major markets and is structured into four operating regions: The Americas: Europe: Asia, Middle East and Africa: and Greater China.
View from Hotel Indigo Shanghai on the Bund, China Responsible Business and Where we compete 37 The Americas The Americas accounts for more than a third of global hotel spending and represents two-thirds of IHGs hotel rooms.
Over the next decade, The Americas will continue to be a significant growth market for the hotel industry and we are a key player.
In 2013, IHG launched the EVEN Hotels brand in the US, within a month of launching HUALUXE an entirely different hotel brand in an entirely different market.
This tells you something about our ambition as a company and the ability of our People to deliver.
Kirk Kinsell President, The Americas Performance highlights A vital region Boca del Rio.
We remain a preferred employer in Canada where our robust This year we have opened 148 hotels in Revenue per available room pipeline of 33 hotels will create even more The Americas region and increased our RevPAR up 6.1% need for top talent.
RevPAR by 6.1 per cent with the US Revenue up 0.8% to $837m outperforming the industry.
The US alone With the growth of the middle class throughout the region, we have also seen Operating profit up 7.8% to $486m accounts for more than a quarter of global hotel spending and over the next decade, active development in Latin America and Includes one significant liquidated damages will continue to be a significant growth the Caribbean across the Holiday Inn receipt in 2012 of $3m.
family of brands with openings or signings in Brazil, Colombia and Grand Cayman.
TM Number of rooms by EVEN Hotels business model Army hotels In February, we launched our new EVEN Hotels brand and in October, we Our Army hotels portfolio continues to Franchised 407,849 signed the first hotel under the brand take shape as part of the US government's Managed 39,583 a new build in New York City.
Privatization of Army Lodgings initiative.
Owned & leased 2,185 Former Army-run properties in the US It is the first hotel brand in the lifestyle and Puerto Rico were renovated during space that is mainstream and aimed at the year.
Room and hotel numbers helping healthy-minded guests stay The number of hotels will continue to balanced while travelling.
As the wellness Total rooms open 449,617 sector continues to grow, so too does the grow in 2013, reaching about 80 hotels Rooms in pipeline 72,573 need for the brand.
and 12,000 rooms on Army installations.
Total hotels open 3,555 Extended stay IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme Hotels in pipeline 670 Extended stay hotels are a big segment When Hurricane Sandy devastated the East Coast in October, we partnered in North America where we opened 22 new hotels.
Hospitality Properties Trust, with the IHG Owners Association to an owner, committed $165 million to raise money through employees, owners renovate 80 Staybridge Suites and and Priority Club Rewards members and donations went to the IHG Shelter Fund Candlewood Suites hotels with design and functionality improvements.
part of the IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme.
Over $100,000 was allocated Focussed expansion from the IHG Shelter Fund to provide temporary shelter and emergency IHG is the largest hotel company in supplies to affected employees and Mexico, with 121 hotels and 38 in the the community.
This year we opened the Presidente InterContinental Santa Fe Mexico and the Hotel Indigo brands only Hotel Indigo Veracruz Boca Del Rio, property in Mexico Hotel Indigo Veracruz Mexico 38 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES Europe Our strategy in Europe is to achieve high-quality growth by focussing on key cities across Europe, and building national scale in priority markets.
In these markets, we want to be in a leadership position.
My denition of winning is to be the preferred choice for guests, the preferred choice for investors, and the preferred choice for our employees.
Angela Brav Chief Executive, Europe Performance highlights 2012 has been an excellent year for Europe Hotel Indigo in spite of the tough macroeconomic We continue to drive excellent progress Revenue per available room climate.
We opened 39 hotels and signed with our branded boutique offer, Hotel RevPAR up 1.7% another 48.
The neighbourhood story concept Revenue up 7.7% to $436m at the heart of the brand ts well into Priority markets Operating profit up 10.6% to $115m European cities, which can also provide The UK continues to be our biggest ample properties for conversion.
market where we exceeded the number of introducing the brand to Europe in 2008, signings from last year and also opened Number of rooms by weve opened 10 hotels, eight in the UK our first new InterContinental Hotel in business model and two in Germany, and there are now London for over 36 years InterContinental 13 in the pipeline.
These include the recent Franchised 79,899 London-Westminster.
signing of Hotel Indigo Barcelona-Plaza Managed 21,211 In Germany, where our strategy for Catalunya and our first Hotel Indigo development has focussed on partnering property in Israel, which will open in Owned & leased 917 with owners who can unlock multiple deals, Tel Aviv in 2013. we signed seven individual hotel deals and Room and hotel numbers Olympic sponsorship one new multiple development agreement.
Total rooms open 102,027 Holiday Inn was the ofcial hotel In addition to the larger, scale markets, provider to the London 2012 Olympic Rooms in pipeline 15,184 we are actively growing in Russia and the and Paralympic Games, and helped Commonwealth of Independent States Total hotels open 628 host athletes at the Olympic Village, CIS.
Our extensive local research has Hotels in pipeline 91 something from which all of IHG drew highlighted a significant opportunity in the enormous pride.
midscale segment and amongst business travellers.
This is a need that Holiday Inn Part of the legacy of the Games are the and Holiday Inn Express are perfectly set two new IHG hotels near to the Olympic up to meet.
site Holiday Inn London-Stratford City and Staybridge Suites London-Stratford Our long-term goal is to grow our estate City, Londons first Staybridge Suites in Russia and the CIS to over 100 hotels.
These created 120 permanent Some of the highlights in 2012 were the jobs, and are also supporting a new IHG launch of a Russian language website and Academy in the local borough of Newham the opening of an IHG Academy in Moscow that will train around 50 participants a year.
to support the training and development of local talent.
Olympic and Paralympic marathon stars Paula Radcliffe and Shelly Woods host a training session for Holiday Inn guests as part of the London 2012 sponsorship programme The Americas and Europe 39 Asia, Middle East and Africa AMEA We are growing our Brands and our People in an exciting region.
Strong economies, growing incomes and the rapid rise of the middle class are some of the long-term factors underpinning the success of AMEA.
AMEA has some of the worlds most compelling travel destinations, robust business hubs and an incredible energy that comes from our geographical and cultural diversity.
We have a great opportunity for AMEA to lead IHG in resorts and food and beverage excellence.
Jan Smits Chief Executive officer, Asia, Middle East and Africa Performance highlights We ended the year strongly with RevPAR Some of these new resorts have already growth of 4.9 per cent and an active received great industry and guest Revenue per available room pipeline of 132 hotels with 36 new signings recognition a strong indication of the RevPAR up 4.9% in 2012.
We also exceeded our target for halo effect a resort can bring to a brand.
Revenue up 0.9% to $218m the IHG Academy programme, with 59 Given there is no clear leader in this IHG Academy programmes across the sought-after but fragmented segment, we Operating profit up 4.8% to $88m region ready to provide skills development have an incredible opportunity, particularly Before exceptional items.
for InterContinental Hotels & Resorts and Holiday Inn.
In 2012, we established a Number of rooms by Seizing opportunities dedicated team in Bangkok to develop business model AMEA is IHGs most geographically IHGs resorts strategy.
Our goal is to Franchised 10,860 diverse region.
We operate 232 hotels become the regions preferred resorts in over 37 countries, covering a mix of operator.
Global management of the Managed 51,290 mature and emerging markets, resorts InterContinental Hotels & Resorts Owned & leased 587 and urban locations.
brand has also moved to Bangkok.
With The region is also home to some of the more than a third of the InterContinental Room and hotel numbers Hotels & Resorts pipeline in AMEA, it gives most important tourism markets of the our owners confidence to see the brand future.
India is one such market, with Total rooms open 62,737 leadership based in the region.
850 million domestic trips made annually, Rooms in pipeline 30,357 and rapidly increasing inbound and Winning in food and beverage Total hotels open 232 outbound numbers.
Around $1.5 billion, 35 per cent, of AMEAs In 2012, we opened the first Holiday Inn Hotels in pipeline 132 gross revenue in 2012 was from our food Express in India, to meet the untapped and beverage operations, representing demand for a trusted global brand that the largest amount of any region within caters to the mid-market segment.
With more than 700 restaurants We also launched Holiday Inn Express and bars in AMEA, food and beverage in Southeast Asia to positive owner and is a sizeable business that can define industry feedback.
We now have 35 and drive preference for our Brands Holiday Inn Express hotels under even further.
development, which represents a quarter of the regions current pipeline.
Food and beverage is another strand of IHGs global strategy being developed in Winning in resorts AMEA along with global resorts.
This will This year we opened several brand-dening establish the needs for each IHG brand globally and develop specic career paths resorts, including InterContinental InterContinental Samui Baan Taling for our People.
Danang Sun Peninsula Resort in Vietnam, Ngam Resort, Thailand InterContinental Samui Baan Taling Ngam Resort in Thailand and the Crowne Plaza Jordan Dead Sea Resort & Spa in Jordan.
40 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES Greater China Greater China has been a standalone business within IHG for the past three years.
In that time we have successfully focused on strengthening our Brands, driving strong operating results and implementing a robust People strategy.
It has been a great year for IHG in China.
We are the largest international hotel operator in Greater China with more rooms under development than any competitor.
Our RevPAR continues to outperform the market due to the strength of our systems and preference for our Brands.
Keith Barr Chief Executive, Greater China Performance highlights Strong RevPAR growth By the end of 2012, we had more than 110,000 rooms open or in the pipeline Overall in 2012 RevPAR increased by Revenue per available room an increase of 7.2 per cent over the 5.4 per cent including rate growth of RevPAR up 5.4% previous year.
While some explainable Revenue up 12.2% to $230m slowdown was seen this year, were still Investing in People Operating profit up 20.9% to $81m outperforming the market in the region We currently have more than 50,000 with more than 180 hotels across 60 cities.
employees across our estate, almost all of Launch of HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts them Chinese, and will be creating around Number of rooms by 30,000 new jobs over the next few years.
business model In March 2012, we launched HUALUXE This will require significant investment Hotels & Resorts the first international Franchised 2,184 in developing our People, as the single upscale hotel brand designed specically biggest operational challenge in China Managed 58,914 for Chinese guests.
is obtaining the best talent.
Owned & leased 503 No other international hotel group has an But with 25 IHG Academy programmes in offer like HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts, and Greater China, our collaboration with local even successful local brands are not able Room and hotel numbers education providers and or community to provide the scale or support of IHG.
We Total rooms open 61,601 organisations will give participants the signed 15 contracts for the brand in 2012. opportunity to develop skills and improve Rooms in pipeline 50,916 This unique brand could be in more their employment prospects, creating a Total hotels open 187 than 100 Chinese cities over the next pipeline of potential recruits and future 15-20 years.
Hotels in pipeline 160 talent for IHG and the industry.
Continued growth Crowne Plaza is one of the fastest growing IHG brands in Greater China.
It is also the regions largest upscale international hotel brand.
We opened eight new Crowne Plaza hotels this year, and now have 60, with 52 hotels in the pipeline, which is more than half of the brand's entire global pipeline.
We also opened our second and third Hotel Indigo properties in the coastal city of Xiamen and in Tianjin, the commercial Crowne Plaza Hong Kong Kowloon East hub of North China.
Asia, Middle East and Africa and Greater China 41 Summary Financial Statement 2012 was another year of significant progress with our preferred Brands driving RevPAR growth of 5.2% which, together with a 2.7% increase in hotel room count, fuelled by our continued expansion in developing markets, drove fees up an impressive 6.8%.
As a result, we delivered 10% growth in operating profit before exceptional items and achieved a two percentage point increase in operating margin over last year.
Group results At the end of 2012, the pipeline totalled arrangement, as well as the benefit of a 1,053 hotels 169,030 rooms.
The $3m liquidated damages receipt in 2012 Revenue increased by 3.8% to $1,835m continued global demand for IHG brands and a $10m liquidated damages receipt and operating profit before exceptional is demonstrated by over 50% of pipeline in 2011, revenue and operating profit grew items increased by 9.8% to $614m during rooms being outside of The Americas by $5m 9.1% and $4m 9.8% respectively.
the 12 months ended 31 December 2012. region, including 30% in Greater China.
Growth was driven by a RevPAR increase Fee revenue, being Group revenue of 7.3%, including 9.6% for Holiday Inn.
Excluding 25 hotels 4,796 rooms excluding revenue from owned and leased signed as part of the US governments Owned and leased revenue declined by hotels, significant liquidated damages Privatization of Army Lodgings initiative $5m 2.5% to $199m and operating profit received in 2012 and 2011 and properties in 2011, signings increased from grew by $7m 41.2% to $24m.
Excluding that are structured for legal reasons as 331 hotels 50,628 rooms to 356 hotels the impact of disposals, revenue increased operating leases, but with the same 53,812 rooms.
Signings during 2012 by $4m 2.1% and operating profit characteristics as management contracts, included 15 hotels for the HUALUXE increased by $8m 50.0%.
The increase increased by 6.8% when translated at Hotels & Resorts brand, as well as the in revenue was driven by RevPAR growth constant currency and applying 2011 first signing for the EVEN Hotels brand.
of 6.3%, offset by the impact of the partial exchange rates.
closure of an owned hotel in the During 2012, the opening of 33,922 rooms The 2012 results reect continued Caribbean.
The operating profit increase of contributed to a net pipeline decline of RevPAR growth in each of the regions, $7m included a $1m year-on-year benefit 11,454 rooms.
Active management out with an overall RevPAR increase of 5.2%, from lower depreciation recorded for the of the pipeline of deals that have become including a 3.2% increase in average daily InterContinental New York Barclay since dormant or no longer viable reduced the rate.
The results also benefited from the hotel was categorised as held for sale pipeline by 31,344 rooms, representing System size growth of 2.7% year-on-year in the first quarter of 2011, after which no a decrease of 11.8% over 2011. to 675,982 rooms.
Group RevPAR growth depreciation was charged, and a $3m remained robust for the year, reecting year-on-year benefit relating to one-off Americas results favourable supply and demand dynamics reorganisation costs at one hotel in 2011.
Revenue and operating profit before in the US over 2012, although trading was exceptional items increased by $7m 0.8% also affected by the impact of Eurozone Europe results to $837m and by $35m 7.8% to $486m uncertainty as well as industry-wide Revenue and operating profit before respectively.
RevPAR increased by 6.1%, challenges in Greater China in the latter exceptional items increased by $31m with 4.1% growth in average daily rate.
part of the year related to the political 7.7% to $436m and by $11m 10.6% to US RevPAR was up 6.3% in 2012 despite leadership change.
RevPAR increased uncertainty regarding the presidential At constant currency, central overheads by 1.7%, with 1.2% growth in average election and the scal cliff in the latter increased from $147m to $158m in 2012 daily rate despite challenging economic part of the year.
$156m at actual currency, reecting conditions across Europe.
Franchised revenue increased by $39m investment in infrastructure and capabilities Franchised revenue increased by $5m 7.8% to $541m.
Royalties growth of 8.7% to support the growth of the business.
5.8% to $91m, whilst operating profit was driven by RevPAR growth of 6.0%, During 2012, the IHG global System was at at $65m.
At constant currency, including 6.1% for Holiday Inn Express, increased by 122 hotels 17,634 rooms.
revenue increased by $8m 9.3% and together with System size growth of 2.3%.
Openings of 226 hotels 33,922 rooms were operating profit increased by $3m 4.6%.
Operating profit increased by $35m 8.1% Growth was mainly driven by an increase driven by continued expansion in the US, to $466m.
particularly within the Holiday Inn brand in royalties of 2.7% 7.5% at constant Managed revenue decreased by $27m family which opened more than 11,000 currency reecting RevPAR growth of 21.8% to $97m and operating profit rooms during 2012, and Greater China.
The 1.8%, together with System size growth decreased by $4m 7.7% to $48m.
level of hotel removals fell from 198 hotels Revenue and operating profit included 33,078 rooms in 2011 to 104 hotels 16,288 Managed revenue increased by $29m $34m 2011 $59m and $nil 2011 $1m rooms in 2012, as anticipated following the to $147m 24.6% and operating profit respectively from managed leases.
completion of the Holiday Inn relaunch.
Excluding properties operated under this 42 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES Revenue and operating profit included Franchised revenue increased by $1m Capital structure and liquidity $80m 2011 $46m and $2m 2011 $nil 50.0% to $3m and operating profit by management respectively from managed leases.
$1m 33.3% to $4m, boosted by the During the year, $472m of cash was Excluding properties operated under opening of the 1,224-room Holiday Inn generated from operating activities, this arrangement and on a constant Macao Cotai Central.
of which $133m was invested in capital currency basis, revenue decreased by Managed revenue increased by $12m expenditure.
After shareholder returns $1m 1.4% reecting a 4.3% decrease in 15.6% to $89m and operating profit of $786m, including a $505m special System size partially offset by RevPAR increased by $8m 18.6% to $51m.
dividend and $107m of share buybacks, growth of 1.0%.
On the same basis, RevPAR growth of 5.6% reected continued net debt at 31 December 2012 was operating profit grew by $5m 19.2%.
economic growth in the region, although $1,074m, an increase over the year In the owned and leased estate, revenue the whole industry was affected in the of $536m.
decreased by $3m 1.5% to $198m and latter part of the year by the once in a operating profit increased by $1m 2.0% decade political leadership change and the to $50m.
At constant currency and Diaoyu Senkaku islands territorial dispute.
We continued to win share by excluding the impact of disposals, revenue There was also continued significant adding rooms to meet growing increased by $10m 5.1% and operating System size growth for the managed estate demand and driving up RevPAR.
The in the region 9.7% rooms growth in 2012 We have delivered good fee InterContinental London Park Lane and following 14.2% rooms growth in 2011. the InterContinental Paris Le Grand growth of 6.8% for the Group, Owned and leased revenue increased delivered year-on-year RevPAR growth by $12m 9.5% to $138m and operating driven by 2.7% net rooms growth of 8.0% and 2.5% respectively.
profit increased by $8m 21.6% to $45m, and RevPAR outperformance in with RevPAR growth of 6.7% at the AMEA results our two largest markets, the US InterContinental Hong Kong.
Revenue and operating profit before and China.
exceptional items increased by $2m 0.9% Central results Tom Singer to $218m and by $4m 4.8% to $88m Net central costs increased by $9m 6.1% Chief Financial officer respectively.
RevPAR increased 4.9%, from $147m in 2011 to $156m in 2012. with 1.2% growth in average daily rate, At constant currency, net central costs with robust trading in Southeast Asia increased by $11m 7.5%.
The movement and Japan, partly offset by continuing was driven by investment in infrastructure uncertainty impacting some markets and capabilities to support the growth of in the Middle East.
Central revenue mainly On both a constant and actual currency comprised technology fee income.
basis, franchised revenue decreased by Other financial items $1m 5.3% to $18m and operating profit was at at $12m.
Exceptional operating items totalled a net loss of $4m.
Exceptional gains included Managed revenue and operating profit a $23m impairment reversal and the increased by $1m 0.7% to $152m and by release of a $9m liability no longer $3m 3.4% to $90m respectively.
Exceptional charges included currency, excluding the benefit of a $6m $16m reorganisation costs, $2m loss on liquidated damages receipt in 2011 and disposal of an interest in a hotel and $18m after adjusting for the disposal of a hotel This Summary Financial Statement write-off of software.
asset and partnership interest in Australia, was approved by the Board on which contributed $3m to operating profit Net financial expenses decreased by $8m 18 February 2013 and signed on its in 2011, revenue and operating profit to $54m primarily due to lower average increased by $7m 4.8% and $11m 14.1% behalf by Tom Singer.
RevPAR growth was 4.6% contain sufficient information to The effective rate of tax on operating and although year-end System size was profit, excluding the impact of exceptional provide as complete an understanding 7.1% higher than at the end of 2011, due to items, was 27% 2011 24%.
of the Groups results and state the phasing of openings towards the end Basic earnings per ordinary share in 2012 of affairs as that provided in the of the year, rooms available during the was 189.5, compared with 159.2 in 2011.
Annual Report and Financial year grew by only 2.2%.
Operating profit Adjusted earnings per ordinary share was Statements 2012.
That report may be in 2012 benefited from a $1m increase in 141.5, against 130.4 in 2011. profit from an associate and $2m lower obtained, free of charge, by writing The Board has proposed a final dividend year-on-year bad debt expense.
to IHG or the Companys Registrar, per ordinary share of 43.0 27.7p.
With In the owned and leased estate, revenue Equiniti contact details are the interim dividend per ordinary share and operating profit increased by $2m provided on page 59. of 21.0 13.5p, the full-year dividend per 4.3% to $48m and by $1m 20.0% to ordinary share for 2012 will total 64.0 The auditors have issued an $6m respectively.
On unqualied report on the Financial 22 October 2012, a special dividend per Greater China results Statements containing no statement ordinary share of $1.72 108.4p was paid Revenue and operating profit before under section 498 2 or 498 3 of the to shareholders.
exceptional items increased by $25m Companies Act 2006.
Information 12.2% to $230m and by $14m 20.9% to concerning Directors emoluments $81m respectively.
RevPAR increased 5.4% is shown on pages 50 to 57. with 3.1% growth in average daily rate.
Summary Financial Statement 43 Summary Financial Statement continued Independent Auditors Statement to the members of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC We have examined the Summary Financial Statement for the year ended the Summary Financial Statement.
The other information comprises only the 31 December 2012 which comprises the summarised Group income statement, Headlines, Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, Business Reviews, summarised Group statement of cash ows and summarised Group statement Summary Directors Report, Corporate Governance Statement, Summary Audit of financial position.
Committee Report and Summary Directors Remuneration Report.
This statement is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued by the accordance with section 428 4 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the Companys full annual Financial has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those Statements describes the basis of our opinion on those Financial Statements, matters we are required to state to them in an auditors statement and for the Directors Remuneration Report and the Directors Report.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Opinion assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the members as a body, for our audit work, for this statement, or for the opinions full annual Financial Statements, the Directors Report and the Directors we have formed.
Remuneration Report of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended Respective responsibilities of Directors and the auditor 31 December 2012 and complies with the applicable requirements of section The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and Summary 428 of the Companies Act 2006, and the regulations made thereunder.
Financial Statement in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor, London 18 February 2013.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statement within the Annual Review and Summary Directors statement Financial Statement with the full annual Financial Statements, the Directors The auditor has issued unqualied reports on the full annual Financial Remuneration Report and the Directors Report, and its compliance with Statements, the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report and the relevant requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the on the consistency of the Directors Report with those annual Financial regulations made thereunder.
Their report on the full annual Financial Statements and the We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report contained no statement under sections 498 2 or 498 3 of the Companies Act 2006.
Summary Financial Statement and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with Summarised Group income s tatement 2012 2011 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total For the year ended 31 December 2012 $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue Americas 837 837 830 830 Europe 436 436 405 405 AMEA 218 218 216 216 Greater China 230 230 205 205 Central 114 114 112 112 Total revenue 1,835 1,835 1,768 1,768 Operating profit Americas 486 23 509 451 13 464 Europe 115 4 111 104 39 65 AMEA 88 5 83 84 26 110 Greater China 81 81 67 67 Central 156 18 174 147 35 112 Operating profit 614 4 610 559 35 594 Net finance costs 54 54 62 62 Profit before tax 560 4 556 497 35 532 Tax 153 142 11 120 48 72 Profit for the year from continuing operations 407 138 545 377 83 460 Earnings per ordinary share cents Basic continuing and total operations 189.5 159.2 Adjusted continuing and total operations 141.5 130.4 Dividend per share cents Final paid in respect of prior year 39.0 35.2 Interim paid 21.0 16.0 Special paid 172.0 Final proposed 43.0 39.0 44 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES Summarised Group s tatement of cash flows 2012 2011 For the year ended 31 December 2012 $m $m Cash flow from operations 639 623 Net interest paid 48 55 Tax paid on operating activities 119 89 Net cash from operating activities 472 479 Capital expenditure 133 194 Proceeds from disposal of operations and other financial assets 8 157 Tax paid on disposals 3 1 Purchase of own shares 107 Dividends paid to shareholders 679 148 Issue of long-term bonds 632 Decrease in other borrowings 99 119 Other financing movements 76 67 Net movement in cash and cash equivalents in the year 15 107 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 182 78 Exchange rate effects 2 3 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 195 182 Summarised Group s tatement of financial position 2012 2011 31 December 2012 $m $m ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 1,056 1,362 Goodwill and intangible assets 447 400 Investment in associates and joint ventures 84 87 Retirement benefit assets 99 21 Other financial assets 155 156 Non-current tax assets 228 147 Total non-current assets 2,069 2,173 Inventories 4 4 Trade and other receivables 422 369 Current tax receivable 31 20 Derivative financial instruments 2 3 Other financial assets 6 Cash and cash equivalents 195 182 Total current assets 660 578 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 534 217 Total assets 3,263 2,968 LIABILITIES Loans and other borrowings 16 21 Trade and other payables 709 707 Provisions 1 12 Current tax payable 54 120 Total current liabilities 780 860 Loans and other borrowings 1,242 670 Derivative financial instruments 19 39 Retirement benefit obligations 187 188 Trade and other payables 563 497 Provisions 1 2 Deferred tax liabilities 93 97 Total non-current liabilities 2,105 1,493 Liabilities classified as held for sale 61 60 Total liabilities 2,946 2,413 Net assets 317 555 IHG shareholders equity 308 547 Non-controlling interest 9 8 Total equity 317 555 Summary Financial Statement 45 T Th he e Boar Board d o of f Dir Direc ect to or rs s an and d Ex Execu ecut ti iv five C e Co ommi mmitt ttee ee Left to right: Larry Light, Dale Morrison, Jennifer Laing, Richard Solomons, Ying Yeh, Patrick Cescau, Jonathan Linen, Luke Mayhew, Eric Pearson, Board of Directors Patrick Cescau Tracy Robbins Luke Mayhew Non-Executive Chairman Executive Vice President, Human Resources Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Group Operations Support Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed Non-Executive Chairman in Appointed a Director in August 2011.
Also Non-Executive Director Joined the Group in December 2005 from Appointed a Director in July 2011.
A of International Consolidated Airlines Group, Compass Group PLC.
Responsible for Non-Executive Director of Brambles Limited.
S. A. and the Senior Independent Director and global talent management, leadership Previously served on the Board of John Lewis Non-Executive Director of Tesco PLC.
development, employee reward strategy Partnership and as Managing Director of Trustee of the Leverhulme Trust and and implementation, organisational the Department Store Division.
Was a Chairman of the St Jude India Childrens capability and operations support.
Non-Executive Director of WH Smith PLC and Charity.
Formerly a Senior Independent Chairman of Pets at Home Group Limited.
David Kappler Director and Non-Executive Director of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Dale Morrison Pearson PLC and a Director at INSEAD.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Independent Non-Executive Director Richard Solomons Appointed a Director and Senior Independent Appointed a Director in June 2011.
Chief Executive Director in June 2004.
He is also a A founding partner of TriPointe Capital Appointed Chief Executive in July 2011.
Joined Non-Executive Director of Shire plc.
Was previously President and Chief the Group in 1992 and held a number of senior Chief Financial officer of Cadbury Schweppes Executive officer of McCain Foods Limited.
financial and operational roles with his previous plc and Non-Executive Chairman of Premier Currently a Non-Executive Director of role as Chief Financial officer and Head of Foods plc.
A member of the Europe Advisory International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. Commercial Development and formerly as Council of Trilantic Capital Partners and and Chairman of Findus Group Limited.
Chief Operating officer of The Americas Hotels Chairman of ADS2 Brands Limited.
Serves on the Executive Committee Jennifer Laing Independent Non-Executive Director of the World Travel & Tourism Council.
Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed a Director in December 2007.
Was Tom Singer Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility previously Vice President and Chairman, Chief Financial officer Committee Greater China Region, Nalco Company and Appointed Chief Financial officer in September Appointed a Director in August 2005.
Has Chairman and President, North Asia Region, 2011.
Joined the Group from Bupa, where he over 30 years experience in marketing and President, Business Development, Asia was Group Finance Director and a main board advertising and was, until 2007, Associate Pacic Region and Vice President, Eastman member.
Previously Group Finance Director Dean, External Relations at London Business Kodak Company.
Also a Non-Executive and Chief Operating officer at William Hill PLC School.
Also serves as a Non-Executive Director of AB Volvo, ABB Ltd and Samsonite and Finance Director at Moss Bros Group PLC.
Director of Hudson Global, Inc. and Premier International S. A.
Kirk Kinsell Audit Committee member President, The Americas Jonathan Linen Corporate Responsibility Committee member Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed a Director in August 2010.
Joined Nomination Committee member the Group in 2002.
Appointed an Executive Appointed a Director in December 2005.
Committee member in 2007 and was Was formerly Vice Chairman of the American Remuneration Committee member President, Europe, Middle East and Africa Express Company.
Serves as a Non-Executive until June 2011.
Responsible for the business Director of Yum!
Brands, Inc. and of Modern development and performance of all the hotel Bank, N. A. and on a number of US councils brands and properties in The Americas region.
46 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES George Turner, Keith Barr, Tracy Robbins, Steven Sickel, Kirk Kinsell, Angela Brav, Jan Smits, Tom Singer and David Kappler.
Executive Committee In addition to the Executive Directors on the Board, the Executive Committee comprises: Keith Barr Jan Smits In April 2013 Kenneth MacPherson will Chief Executive, Greater China Chief Executive, Asia, Middle East and Africa join the Group as Chief Executive, Greater Joined the Group in 2000.
Became Chief Joined the Group in 2002.
Became Chief China having previously been General Executive, Greater China in April 2011.
Executive, Asia, Middle East and Africa in Manager and Board Director of Sichuan Responsible for the business development August 2011.
Responsible for the business Shuijingfang Company Ltd, a Diageo and performance of all the hotel brands and development and performance of all the hotel joint venture in China.
With effect from properties in the Greater China region.
brands and properties in Asia, Middle East 1 June 2013 Keith Barr will be appointed and Africa.
to the newly created position of Chief Angela Brav Commercial officer, responsible for Chief Executive, Europe George Turner brands, sales, marketing and distribution, Executive Vice President, General Counsel Joined the Group in 1988.
Appointed and will remain a member of the Executive and Company Secretary Chief Executive, Europe in August 2011.
During the transition Larry Responsible for the business development Joined the Group in 2008 from Imperial Light will continue in his role as Chief and performance of all the hotel brands Chemical Industries PLC.
Appointed Brands officer and as a member of the and properties in Europe.
Executive Vice President, General Counsel Executive Committee.
Following the and Company Secretary in January 2009. transition Larry will stay on as a senior Larry Light Responsible for corporate governance, IHG advisor.
Chief Brands officer risk management, insurance, regulatory, Joined the Group in 2012.
Formerly internal audit, legal, corporate responsibility Steven Sickel, who has been an interim Chief Marketing officer for McDonalds.
Responsible for building on the Groups member of the Executive Committee, Steven Sickel will return to his full-time role leading strategy of developing and nurturing a Interim Global Head of Sales and Distribution powerful portfolio of preferred Brands.
Distribution Relationship Marketing in June 2013.
Since August 2011, Eric Pearson Steven has interim responsibility for revenue Executive Vice President and management, revenue systems and Chief Information officer worldwide sales, in addition to his existing Joined the Group in 1997.
Appointed Executive responsibilities as Senior Vice President, Vice President and Chief Information officer Distribution Relationship Marketing.
Responsible for global technology, Previously, he was Managing Director, Loyalty including IT systems and information Marketing at Continental Airlines for 8 years.
The Board of Directors and Executive Committee 47 Summary Directors Report Details of the beneficial interests in shares of the Company, held by Principal activities Directors who were on the Board at the year end are shown below: InterContinental Hotels Group PLC the Company is the holding company of the InterContinental Hotels Group the Group.
The As at As at Group franchises, manages, owns and leases over 4,600 hotels, 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 1 1 ordinary shares ordinary shares with nearly 676,000 guest rooms in nearly 100 countries and territories around the world.
A review of the performance of the Executive Directors 2 Group is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Chief Kirk Kinsell 155,628 109,547 Executives Review on pages 4 to 7, the Business Reviews presented Tracy Robbins 85,703 43,108 on pages 8 to 41 and in the Summary Financial Statements on Tom Singer 20,846 pages 42 to 45.
Richard Solomons 322,379 252,166 Non-Executive Directors Annual General Meeting AGM 3 Patrick Cescau The Notice convening the AGM to be held at 11.00am on David Kappler 1,308 1,400 Friday, 24 May 2013 is contained in a circular sent to shareholders Jennifer Laing 3,148 3,373 at the same time as this Annual Review.
4 Jonathan Linen 6,853 7,343 Results and dividends Luke Mayhew 1,866 2,000 4 The operating profit before exceptional items was $614m.
An Dale Morrison 4,233 3 interim dividend of 13.5 pence per share 21.0 cents per ADR was David Webster 33,438 35,828 paid on 28 September 2012.
A special dividend of 108.4 pence per Ying Yeh share $1.72 per ADR was paid on 22 October 2012.
The Directors 1 These shareholdings include all beneficial interests and those held by are recommending a final dividend of 27.7 pence per share Directors spouses and other connected persons.
None of the Directors have a beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary.
These shareholdings do 43.0 cents per ADR to be paid on 31 May 2013 to shareholders not include Executive Directors entitlements to share awards under the on the Register of Members at the close of business on Companys share plans, which are set out separately in the Summary 22 March 2013.
Directors Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 57.
2 155,034 ordinary shares and 594 American Depositary Receipts.
Share capital 3 Patrick Cescau was appointed as a Non-Executive Chairman on 1 January 2013 following the retirement of David Webster on 31 December 2012.
The Companys issued share capital at 31 December 2012 consisted 194 4 Held in the form of American Depositary Receipts.
of 268,325,071 ordinary shares of 14 329 pence each.
There are no special control rights or restrictions on share transfer attaching to these ordinary shares.
During the year, no awards or grants over Employees shares were made that would be dilutive of the Companys ordinary IHG directly employed an average of 7,981 people worldwide share capital.
during 2012, whose costs are borne by the Group.
When the whole IHG estate is taken into account including staff working in the Share issues and buybacks franchised and managed hotels more than 350,000 people worked On 7 August 2012, the Company announced a $1bn return of globally across all IHGs brands at 31 December 2012. funds to shareholders via a special dividend of $0.5bn and share The Group is committed to providing employees with equality of consolidation on a 14 for 15 basis and a share buyback programme opportunity, without discrimination.
Great emphasis is placed on of $0.5bn.
The share buyback authority remains in force until the employee communications, particularly on matters relating to the AGM in 2013, and a resolution to renew the authority will be put to Groups business and its performance.
Charitable and political donations Substantial shareholdings In 2012, the Group donated $1,015,000 in support of community As at 31 December 2012 and 18 February 2013, the Company initiatives and charitable causes.
This figure includes contributions had been notified of the following significant holdings in its from IHG employees and guests.
No payments were made for ordinary shares: political purposes.
As at Auditors Shareholder 18 February 2013 The Directors confirm that they have taken steps to make Cedar Rock Capital Limited 5.07% themselves aware of relevant audit information.
None of the BlackRock, Inc. 5.02% Directors are aware of any relevant audit information which has Legal & General Group plc 3.96% not been disclosed to the auditors.
The reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Company Board of Directors will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Biographical details of current Board members are shown on pages 46 and 47.
Executive Directors have service contracts Going concern and Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
At the end of 2012, the Group was trading within its banking The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Group covenants and debt facilities.
IHGs fee based model and wide maintains insurance cover for and has provided indemnities to all of geographic spread means that it is well placed to manage through its Directors and officers, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. uncertain times.
The Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 have therefore been prepared on the going concern basis.
48 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES Corporate governance The Board is committed to compliance with all the principles Company Secretary and provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Code and considers that the Company has complied with its Company Secretary.
His responsibilities include advising the requirements throughout the year ended 31 December 2012.
Board on corporate governance, and for ensuring good information flows to the Board and its Committees and between the Executive The Board of Directors Committee and the Non-Executive Directors.
He also facilitates the The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic induction of new Directors and the regular updating and refreshing direction, development, performance and control of the Group.
It of all Directors skills and knowledge.
also ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
During 2012 eight Board Internal control and risk management meetings were held.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its David Webster was Non-Executive Chairman throughout the year.
In order to discharge that responsibility, the Board In May 2012 David Webster notified the Board of his intention to has established the procedures necessary to apply the Code, retire and step down as Non-Executive Chairman with effect from including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and 31 December 2012.
In June 2012 Graham Allan retired from the delegated authorities.
Board, Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Corporate Responsibility Committee and in November 2012 Dale Morrison For the year ended 31 December 2012, the Board has conducted was appointed to the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control The progressive refreshing of the Board ensures that we have and risk management.
The system is designed to manage the risk appropriate continuation and a multi-skilled and diverse Board.
of failure to achieve business objectives, and it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance.
Whilst areas for The Board is comprised of four Executive Directors and a team of continuous improvement have been identified and actions initiated seven experienced independent Non-Executive Directors represent as a result of the Groups processes, no significant shortcomings a strong source of advice and judgement.
Together the Board has have been identified from the 2012 risk assessments.
a broad range of skills, knowledge and experience and represent a wide geographical spread.
Shareholder relations The schedule of matters which are reserved for the Board are The Group reports formally to shareholders twice a year and available on the Companys website at www.
com investors releases quarterly results.
In addition, regular meetings are held under corporate governance.
with major institutional shareholders to discuss, using publicly available information, progress of the business, its performance, Committees plans and objectives.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent The Board Committees include: Audit Committee: Director and other Non-Executive Directors are available to meet Corporate Responsibility Committee: Nomination Committee: with major shareholders to understand their issues and concerns and Remuneration Committee.
The Audit, Nomination and and to discuss governance and strategy.
Remuneration Committees consist wholly of Non-Executive The AGM provides a useful forum for one-to-one communication Directors.
The Chairman of the Board is a member of the with private shareholders, many of whom are also guests in our Nomination Committee only.
The terms of reference of these hotels.
Information of interest to investors is also maintained Committees were reviewed during 2012 to ensure that they on the Companys website at www.
com investors continue to reflect best practice and are available on the Companys website at www.
com investors under corporate governance committees or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
Summary Audit Committee Report Induction programmes are prepared for new Directors and The Audit Committee, which is chaired by a financial expert, ongoing training and development needs for all Directors are supports the Board in meeting its responsibilities in relation kept under review.
to the integrity of the Groups financial statements and associated announcements, the adequacy of internal control and risk The 2012 Board performance evaluation of the Board and its management systems and the appointment and work of the Committees was conducted by an independent external facilitator, internal and external auditors.
The external auditors and the Lintstock Limited.
It involved the completion of comprehensive Head of Global Internal Audit both have the opportunity to meet questionnaires in which Directors and the Company Secretary privately with the Committee.
were asked to evaluate the Board, each of its Committees and their respective Chairmen and the Chairman of the Board.
During the year, the Committees deliberations included a wide range of matters addressing all its main areas of responsibility.
The feedback confirmed that the Board and each of its Committees The Committees main focus was to review the quarterly, interim continue to operate effectively and that each Director continues to and full-year financial results and to review the effectiveness of make an effective contribution and retains a strong commitment internal control, financial reporting and risk management to the role.
processes, through reports and presentations received from The Directors have agreed to retire at each Annual General Meeting Global Internal Audit GIA, the external auditors and AGM and offer themselves for re-election annually in line with the management.
Consideration was also given to GIAs annual Code recommendations.
internal audit plan, disclosure controls, developments in corporate governance and accounting standards in the UK and Senior Independent Director US and significant incidents of fraud and whistleblowing.
David Kappler was Senior Independent Director throughout the year.
His role includes being available to liaise with shareholders who have concerns that they feel have not been addressed through the normal channels, being a sounding board for the Chairman and leading the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Summary Directors Report and Corporate governance 49 Summary Directors Remuneration Report stakeholders.
We believe our current approach to remuneration Introduction is responsible and appropriate as it: This year, 2013, is a year of transition for directors remuneration reports.
We have prepared this report before new final Government is structured to drive execution of our business strategy: regulations on executive remuneration disclosure are issued.
aligns reward with the creation of shareholder value: However, we have reflected as much as is practical of the direction allows the Company to recruit and retain talent in a competitive and spirit of the draft regulations in both the content and structure global sector: of the full 2012 Directors Remuneration Report from which this incorporates measures and safeguards to ensure that high summary report is extracted.
rewards only follow strong, balanced results: and We have historically tried to make the report transparent and easy incentivises the delivery of long-term, sustainable business to read and in recent years already included, for example, the single growth and shareholder value, rather than the pursuit figure for Executive Directors remuneration and a remuneration of unsustainable short-term results.
The targets for 2013 are stretching and will require a strong Executive Director remuneration at IHG has evolved during 2012: corporate performance to achieve similar levels of remuneration.
the measures under the Annual Bonus Plan ABP have been changed for Executive Directors in 2013.
To distinguish it from the previous measures, we refer to it as the Annual Performance Luke Mayhew Plan APP.
Although not a radical change, the APP does align Chairman of the Remuneration Committee annual incentives more closely to the key elements of our 18 February 2013 strategic priorities of Brands, People and Delivery: and the 2010 12 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, which will vest in 2013, Summary Directors Remuneration Report glossary of terms is the last LTIP using the previous measures.
The 2011 13 LTIP, ABP Annual Bonus Plan which vests in 2014, is the first LTIP including the new corporate performance measures of net rooms growth and RevPAR.
APP Annual Performance Plan Remuneration for Executive Directors in 2012 reflects another year DB Defined Benefit of strong corporate results, as shown in the table below: DC Defined Contribution DJGH index Dow Jones Global Hotels index 2012 2011 2010 EBIT Earnings before interest and tax EBIT 9.8% 25.9% 22.3% EPS Earnings per share Adjusted EPS 21.7% 2.5% 9.6% ICETUS InterContinental Executive Top-Up Scheme TSR 28.2% 29.8% 8.0% IC Plan InterContinental Hotels UK Pension Plan Annualised three-year changes.
LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan Remuneration has reflected these results with an ABP award just above target for 2012 and a maximum vesting of the 2010 12 OPR Overall performance rating LTIP cycle.
RevPAR Revenue per available room We continually keep all aspects of remuneration under review and TSR Total Shareholder Return listen to the views of shareholders, the Government and other Summary of IHGs Executive Director remuneration policy for 2013 Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Salary Annual incentive APP Long-term incentive LTIP Pension 50% cash and 50% shares deferred for three years Share awards vest after three years if performance conditions are met: Benefits Linked to individual and company achievement using performance measures relating to: 25% relative net rooms growth: Brands: 25% relative RevPAR growth: and People: and 50% relative TSR v the DJGH index.
Minimum shareholding requirement Corporate performance indicators 2012 2011 2010 Operating profit before exceptional items 9.8% 25.9% 22.3% $614m $559m $444m Full-year dividend excluding any special dividends and capital returns 64 cents 55 cents 48 cents 41.2p per share 34.5p per share 30.0p per share 29.8% 8.0% Three-year total TSR annualised 28.2% Three-year adjusted EPS annualised 21.7% 2.5% 9.6% Budgeted salary increase US and UK corporate employees 3.0% 3.0% 2.9% Includes one significant liquidated damages receipt in 2012 of $3m in The Americas.
50 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES Approach for members of the Executive Committee Factors taken into account in determining pay Members of the Executive Committee are rewarded on the same In making decisions in relation to 2012 pay, the Committee took basis as the Executive Directors, participating in the same incentive into account: plans and with a similar split between fixed and variable the achievement of corporate performance targets under the remuneration, and between cash and shares.
ABP and LTIP see the tables on pages 55 and 56 : Key changes in 2012 an appropriate mix of fixed and variable pay, with an emphasis Changes to the annual incentive for senior executives, including the on driving performance through approximately two-thirds of Executive Directors, were approved by the Committee for 2013, with total pay being variable: the objective of more closely aligning reward to the delivery of our pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group, including the strategic objectives of Brands, People and Delivery.
average budgeted salary increase for the employee population see the table on the previous page : and the corporate performance indicators shown in the table on the previous page.
A Key remuneration principles IHGs executive remuneration principles are designed to drive the delivery of strategic objectives by: attracting and retaining high-quality executives in an environment where compensation is based on global market practice: aligning rewards for executives with the achievement of business performance targets, strategic objectives and returns to shareholders: supporting equitable treatment between members of the same executive team: and facilitating global assignments and relocations.
IHGs remuneration structure for senior executives places a strong emphasis on performance-related reward.
The Committee believes that it is important to reward management, including the Executive Directors, for targets achieved, provided those targets are stretching.
B Link with strategy Our strategy summarised below is the driver of our reward structure.
The current performance measures used in IHGs incentive plans are aligned with our strategic priorities, which will enable us to achieve our Vision of becoming one of the great companies in the world by creating Great Hotels Guests Love.
Where we compete How we win Portfolio of preferred Brands Relevant consumer segments Talented People Most attractive markets Best-in-class Delivery Appropriate business model Responsible Business Annual Performance Plan Long Term Incentive Plan Measures provide focus on key Measures balance the quality of hotels drivers of sustainable growth: with the speed at which we grow: Heartbeat Increases guest satisfaction as an Relative net rooms growth Brands indicator of the strength of our Brands Supports our business model, segment and market strategies to grow System size over three years Relative RevPAR growth Engagement Reects the sustainable power of our Brands, Increases the engagement of our People scale and experience and engaged workforce People who bring our Brands to life Focusses growth on quality rooms in key markets EBIT Relative TSR Provides annual focus on earnings growth Provides alignment with shareholder returns Delivery driven by core operating inputs, namely rooms growth, RevPAR, fee revenue and margins Responsible Business Summary Directors Remuneration Report 51 Summary Directors Remuneration Report continued C Remuneration policy summary The following table shows a summary of the individual elements of remuneration provided to the Executive Directors for 2013.
The APP replaces the ABP for senior executives from 2013.
Reward element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Salary Recognises the market value of Reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months from 1 April.
cash the role and the individuals skill, performance Committee considers: and experience.
business and individual performance: current remuneration against internal and external benchmarks: and average salary increases for the wider IHG workforce.
When external benchmarking is used, the comparator groups are chosen having regard to: size market capitalisation, turnover, profits and the number of employees: diversity and complexity of the business: geographical spread of the business: and relevance to the hotel industry.
APP Drives and rewards annual performance Reviewed annually with targets set in line with strategic objectives.
against both financial and non-financial metrics.
50% cash Regional as well as global targets are used when appropriate.
and 50% Aligns individuals and teams with key strategic Payment is determined by the Committee, which has certain shares priorities of Brands, People and Delivery.
specified discretions over award levels, after the end of the year.
Aligns short-term annual performance with strategy to generate long-term returns to shareholders.
Takes into account personal performance of individuals.
LTIP Drives and rewards delivery of sustained Annual awards over IHG shares, which vest after long-term performance on measures that three years, subject to the achievement of corporate shares are aligned with the interests of shareholders.
Reviewed annually with targets set in line with strategic objectives.
Vesting is confirmed by the Committee after the end of the vesting period, with discretion to reduce vesting level if the quality of the underlying performance of the Company is not satisfactory.
Pension Helps recruit and retain.
The following plans are operated: for UK executives, the executive section of the Rewards long-term individual performance.
InterContinental Hotels UK Pension Plan IC Plan, which has a defined benefit section UK DB Plan and a defined contribution section UK DC Plan : for UK executives, the InterContinental Executive Top-Up Scheme ICETUS : for US executives, a DC 401 k Plan US 401 k Plan and a DC Deferred Compensation Plan US Deferred Compensation Plan : and for non-UK and non-US executives, the InterContinental Hotels Group International Savings and Retirement Plan, and other local plans.
A cash allowance in lieu of pension benefits is offered for UK executives.
52 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES Opportunity Performance metrics Changes in year Determined annually on the None Directors salaries factors set out to the left increased between 2.5%-3% in 2012 Target 115% of salary 20% Brands: year-on-year improvement in guest APP for senior satisfaction executives from 2013 Maximum 200% of salary 10% People: year-on-year improvement in employee engagement 70% Delivery: EBIT v target All targets measured over one year Maximum for 2013 15 LTIP cycle 25% relative net rooms growth and 25% relative RevPAR None in 2012 205% of salary growth both measured v comparator group : 20% threshold vesting if equal to average growth of Will not exceed three times annual comparator group: salary other than in exceptional maximum vesting if ranked as 1st in the comparator circumstances group: and straight-line vesting in between.
50% relative TSR v DJGH index : 20% threshold vesting if equal to index: maximum vesting if 8% or more per year ahead of index: and straight-line vesting in between.
All targets measured over a three-year performance period UK DB Plan: 1 30th accrual rateNone None in 2012 UK DC Plan: 7.5% employee UK DB Plan will close contribution with 30% matching to future accrual for Company contribution existing members with effect from 1 July 2013 US 401 k Plan: 2%-75% employee contribution with 4% matching Company contribution US Deferred Compensation Plan: up to 75% employee contribution with 2% matching Company contribution and 4%-20% additional Company contribution if certain conditions are met Summary Directors Remuneration Report 53 Summary Directors Remuneration Report continued D Single figure remuneration in 2012 actual and maximum Value 000 6,000 max 5,000 actual 4,000 max actual max 2010 12 LTIP 3,000 actual 2012 ABP deferred shares max actual 2012 ABP cash 2,000 2012 pension benefit 1,000 2012 benets 2012 actual salary paid 0 Richard Solomons Kirk Kinsell Tracy Robbins Tom Singer Single Total Figure Table 000 2012 2012 2012 ABP 2012 actual 2012 pension ABP deferred 2010 12 Director salary paid benefits benefit cash shares LTIP Total Richard Solomons 716 48 1,140 494 494 1,738 4,630 Kirk Kinsell 474 663 110 306 306 1,287 3,146 Tracy Robbins 409 23 123 300 300 954 2,109 Tom Singer 540 19 162 346 346 1,194 2,607 Kirk Kinsell is paid in US dollars and the sterling values in the chart above have been calculated using an exchange rate of $1 0.63.
Details of elements shown: 2012 actual salary paid salary for the year: for Kirk Kinsell this shows actual salary paid converted into sterling: 2012 ABP cash cash portion of ABP award for 2012 performance: 2012 ABP deferred shares value of deferred share portion of ABP award for 2012 performance based on share price of 1,707.0p as at 31 December 2012 : 2010 12 LTIP value of LTIP award due to vest on 20 February 2013 as a result of 2010 to 2012 performance based on share price of 1,707.0p as at 31 December 2012 : 2012 benefits all taxable benefits arising from the individuals employment in 2012: this includes the provision of a fully-expensed company car, private healthcare, financial counselling and other benefits.
For Kirk Kinsell, this includes the cost of expatriate benefits related to his international assignment prior to taking up his Board appointment as President, The Americas, on 13 June 2011: 2012 pension benefit for Richard Solomons, the increase in pension value during 2012: for other Executive Directors, the value of Company contributions to pension plans or any cash allowances paid in lieu of pension contributions.
The pension benefit accruing to Richard Solomons in 2012 arose principally from his salary review when appointed Chief Executive in July 2011.
2009 ABP deferred shares there was no vesting of ABP deferred shares relating to 2009 as no annual incentive was paid in respect of financial year 2009.
All figures are calculated in accordance with our understanding of the requirements of the draft BIS regulations on disclosure of executive pay.
54 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES Executive Director annual salaries for 2012 and 2013 E Salary and benefits Base salary is the only element of remuneration which is 2013 2013 2012 2012 pensionable.
Director $ $ In addition to salary, benefits are provided to Executive Directors, Richard Solomons 739,000 721,000 who are all based in the UK or US, in accordance with local Kirk Kinsell 774,000 755,400 market practice.
Tracy Robbins 424,300 412,000 The overall budget for salary increases for IHG corporate Tom Singer 550,800 540,000 employees in the UK and US, and the overall increase in the Kirk Kinsell is paid in US dollars and his annual base salary for 2012 and 2013 is Directors salaries for 2013 is shown below: shown in US dollars above.
The equivalent sterling values calculated using an exchange rate of $1 0.63 are: 2012 476,562: and 2013 488,296.
UK corporate US corporate Executive employees employees Directors 3.0% 3.0% 2.5% 2012 target and maximum payments F Annual Bonus Plan ABP Structure Award as % of salary Key performance From 2013, senior executives will participate in the APP, details Measure indicator Target Maximum of which are on pages 52 and 53.
In 2012, Executive Directors Financial EBIT 70% 80.5 161 participated in the 2012 ABP, the structure of which is as follows: Individual OPR 30% 34.5 69 Total for 2012 115 200 Performance Payment measures structure Combined EBIT and OPR payout subject to a maximum of 200% of base salary.
50% shares Outcome for 2012 deferred for 70% 2012 EBIT achieved was 101.7% of target for the year.
Based on this three years ABP EBIT performance, the following table shows the level of 2012 awards.
2012 50% was paid in cash and 50% in deferred shares that will vest after 50% 30% cash three years.
individual EBIT % OPR % Total award as Director award award % of salary Richard Solomons 93.8 43.1 136.9 The measures for 2012 were: Kirk Kinsell 93.8 34.5 128.3 Tracy Robbins 93.8 51.8 145.6 Global EBIT achievement against target for 2012: Tom Singer 93.8 34.5 128.3 threshold payout: 90% of target performance: maximum payout: 110% of target performance: and straight-line vesting in between.
OPR based on achievement of specific individual objectives linked directly to strategic priorities, and an assessment against leadership competencies and behaviours.
The objectives and OPRs are reviewed and agreed by the Committee.
Summary Directors Remuneration Report 55 Summary Directors Remuneration Report continued G Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Structure and outcome for 2012 The award for the 2010 12 cycle had corporate performance measures based on relative TSR and EPS.
The structure is as follows: Performance Payment measures structure 50% TSR 100% LTIP shares 2010 12 50% EPS The measures and outcomes are as follows: Performance Threshold Maximum Threshold Weighting Maximum Outcome measure performance performance maximum award vesting % of salary 2010 12 cycle TSR Growth equal to Growth exceeds the 20% 100% 50% 102.5% Growth exceeded index by the DJGH index index by 8% per year 15% per year or more EPS Growth of 5% Growth of 15% per 20% 100% 50% 102.5% Growth of 21.7% per year per year year or more 100% of maximum award Total vesting outcome Current position on other outstanding awards From 2011, the performance measures for the LTIP were changed.
Details of the performance measures and potential vesting outcomes for outstanding awards as at 31 December 2012 are as follows: Performance Threshold Maximum Threshold Weighting Maximum Potential vesting outcomes measure performance performance maximum award vesting % of salary 2011 13 cycle Net rooms Average of the 1st in the comparator 20% 100% 25% 51.25% Improved performance needed growth comparator group group to achieve threshold vesting RevPAR Average of the 1st in the comparator 20% 100% 25% 51.25% Between threshold and growth comparator group group maximum vesting if current performance maintained TSR Growth equal to Growth exceeds the 20% 100% 50% 102.5% Maximum vesting if current the DJGH index index by 8% per year performance maintained or more 2012 14 cycle Net rooms Average of the 1st in the comparator 20% 100% 25% 51.25% Between threshold and growth comparator group group maximum vesting if current performance maintained RevPAR Average of the 1st in the comparator 20% 100% 25% 51.25% Between threshold and growth comparator group group maximum vesting if current performance maintained TSR Growth equal to Growth exceeds the 20% 100% 50% 102.5% Maximum vesting if current the DJGH index index by 8% per year performance maintained or more 56 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES H Executive shareholding requirement The Committee believes that share ownership by Executive Directors and senior executives strengthens the link between the individuals personal interests and those of the shareholders.
Executive Directors are expected to hold all shares earned net of any share sales required to meet personal tax liabilities until the guideline shareholding requirement is achieved.
Shares held by Executive Directors 4 Shares held outright Total shares and awards Guideline shareholding requirement Richard Solomons ABP Total Guideline Shares held deferred share LTIP share shares and shareholding as outright as awards as awards as awards as Kirk 1 2 3 4 Director % of salary % of salary % of salary % of salary % of salary Kinsell Richard Solomons 300 763 153 693 1,609 Tracy Kirk Kinsell 200 557 180 776 1,513 Robbins Tracy Robbins 200 355 167 706 1,228 5 Tom Singer 200 66 0 715 781 Tom Singer Percentages are based on share price of 1,707.0p per share as at 31 December 2012.
1 Shares held outright by each Executive Director with no restrictions.
2 ABP deferred share awards subject to risk of forfeiture if employment ceases.
0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 1,400 1,600 3 LTIP share awards subject to achievement of corporate performance targets.
% 4 Includes shares held outright, ABP deferred shares and LTIP share awards.
5 Tom Singer joined in 2011 and did not qualify for the 2011 ABP deferred share award.
I Pensions IHG operates the following pension arrangements in which the Executive Directors participate: for UK executives, the executive section of the IC Plan, which has a DB section and a DC section the UK DB Plan and the UK DC Plan respectively : for UK executives, ICETUS: this is an unfunded arrangement, but with appropriate security: for US executives, the DC US 401 k Plan and the DC US Deferred Compensation Plan: and for executives outside the UK and US, the InterContinental Hotels Group International Savings and Retirement Plan, or other local plans.
As an alternative to the pension arrangements, a cash allowance may be taken in lieu by UK executives.
Following an extensive UK pension review and subsequent consultations with affected employees, it was announced on 29 September 2011 that the UK DB Plan would close to future accrual for existing members with effect from 1 July 2013.
The UK DB Plan is already closed to new entrants.
A cap on pensionable salary increases of RPI plus 2.5% per annum became effective on 1 October 2011.
As part of the consultation with employees and the plan trustees about these changes, it was agreed that the Enhanced Early Retirement Facility EERF would be retained.
This provides an option for plan members, with the Companys agreement, to retire within five years of normal retirement age on accrued benefits without reduction.
The level of plan funding provides for the EERF.
The Committee considered that the reduction in risk and expense achieved by the closing of the UK DB Plan justified the cost of retaining the EERF for existing active members.
The Executive Directors participate as follows: Richard Solomons participates in the UK DB Plan and the ICETUS on the same basis as other senior UK-based executives: Tracy Robbins participated in the executive UK DC Plan on the same basis as other senior UK-based executives until March 2012: from April 2012 she received a cash allowance in lieu of pension benefits: Tom Singer does not participate in any pension plan and receives a cash allowance in lieu of pension benefits: and Kirk Kinsell participates in the DC US 401 k Plan and the DC US Deferred Compensation Plan.
The value of Richard Solomons DB pension arrangement as at Accrued value of annual Accrued value of annual pension 31 December 2012 is set out to the right.
pension if retired at 31 December 2012, assuming 31 December 2012 retirement at normal retirement Richard Solomons is eligible for the EERF, which is available to age 9 October 2021 all members of the UK DB Plan, as explained above.
This enables members to retire without reduction in their pension if they are 245,180, of which: 377,200, of which: within five years of normal retirement age.
Although the EERF is 46,770 is funded 71,950 is funded non-contractual, its continuation formed part of the agreement with 198,410 is unfunded 305,250 is unfunded trustees on closure of the UK DB Plan.
The EERF terms require an executive to obtain the consent of the Company: the consent is The increase in the accrued value of the pension in 2012 arises discretionary but should not be unreasonably refused.
principally from Richard Solomons salary review when appointed Chief Executive in July 2011.
Summary Directors Remuneration Report 57 Investor information Website and electronic communication Individual Savings Account ISA As part of the Companys commitment to reducing the cost and Equiniti offers a Stocks and Shares ISA where IHG shares can environmental impact of producing and distributing printed documents be invested.
For further information please contact Equiniti in very large quantities, IHGs Annual Report and Annual Review have on 0871 384 2244. been made available to shareholders through the Companys website Share dealing services www.
com investors under financial library.
Equiniti offers the following share dealing facilities: Shareholders may appoint electronically a proxy to vote on their behalf on any poll that is to be held at the forthcoming Annual General Postal dealing Meeting.
Shareholders who hold their shares through CREST may For more information call 0871 384 2248. appoint proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment Telephone dealing service, by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
Shareholder Hotel Discount Promotion Internet dealing IHG offers discounted hotel stays subject to availability for Log on to www.
co. uk registered shareholders through a dedicated, controlled access website.
For further details please contact the Company Changes to the base cost of IHG shares Secretariat department on 01895 512 000 or email Details of all the changes to the base cost of IHG shares held since companysecretariat@ihg.
com April 2003 to December 2012, for UK Capital Gains Tax purposes, may be found on the Companys website www.
com investors Corporate Responsibility Report under shareholder centre tax information.
IHG updates its online Corporate Responsibility Report regularly, covering progress on a range of environmental, social and community Missing shareholders issues.
com responsibility Working with ProSearch an asset reunification company, we continue to look for shareholders who have not kept their contact IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme details up-to-date.
We have funds waiting to be claimed and are The IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme enables IHG to support our committed to doing what we can to pay these to their rightful hotels and surrounding communities, employees and guests when owners.
For further details please contact ProSearch on a disaster strikes, by providing immediate and vital assistance.
com If you would like to make a donation to the programme, you can do Shareholder security so online via a secure payment page www.
com Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have Registrar received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning For information on a range of shareholder services including, investment matters.
These are typically from brokers who target enquiries concerning individual shareholdings, notification of a UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be shareholders change of address and amalgamation of shareholder worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK investments.
These accounts in order to avoid duplicate mailing of shareholder operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
More detailed communications, shareholders should contact the Companys information on this or similar activity can be found on the Financial Registrar, Equiniti, on 0871 384 2132 calls from within the UK Services Authority website www.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
Dividend services Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP American Depositary Receipts ADRs The Company offers a DRIP for shareholders to purchase additional The Companys shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange IHG shares with their cash dividends.
For further information about in the form of American Depositary Shares, evidenced by ADRs and the DRIP, please contact our Registrar helpline on 0871 384 2268. traded under the symbol IHG.
A DRIP application form and information booklet are available at Each ADR represents one ordinary share.
co. uk products pages applyforadrip.
aspx ADR holder accounts and payment of dividends should be directed Bank mandate to JPMorgan Chase & Co, our authorised ADR depositary bank We encourage shareholders to have their dividends paid directly contact details shown on page 59. into their UK bank or building society account to ensure efficient payment and funds being cleared on the payment date.
Form 20-F Shareholders who would like their dividends to be paid directly into The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the their account should contact our Registrar.
Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in the US and files with the SEC an Annual Report on Form 20-F.
The Form 20-F can be Overseas payment service found on the Companys website www.
com investors under It is also possible for shareholders to have their dividends paid shareholder centre ADR holders or by visiting the SECs website direct to their bank account in a local currency.
shtml payable for this service.
Further information is available at www.
co. uk shareholders pages overseaspayments.
aspx Calls cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Out of date unclaimed dividends Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding UK public holidays.
If you think that you have out of date dividend cheques Lines are open from 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday, or unclaimed dividend payments please contact our Registrar.
58 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 OVERVIEW HOW WE WIN WHERE WE COMPETE FACTS AND FIGURES Financial calendar 2012 Interim dividend of 13.5p per share 21.0 per ADR : Payment date 28 September Special dividend of 108.4p per share $1.72 per existing ADR : Payment date 22 October Financial year end 31 December 2013 Preliminary announcement of annual results 19 February Final dividend of 27.7p per share 43.0 per ADR : Ex-dividend date 20 March Record date 22 March Announcement of first quarter interim management statements 8 May Annual General Meeting 24 May Final dividend of 27.7p per share 43.0 per ADR : Payment date 31 May Announcement of interim results 6 August Interim dividend: Payment date October Announcement of third quarter interim management statements 5 November Financial year end 31 December 2014 Preliminary announcement of annual results February Contacts Registered office Registrar ADR depositary Priority Club Rewards Broadwater Park Equiniti JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A.
com investors Investor information, Financial calendar and Contacts 59 The Holiday Inn brand received the highest numerical score among mid-scale full service hotels in the proprietary J. D. Power and Associates 2011-2012 North America Hotel Guest Satisfaction SM Index Study.
Study based on responses from 61,716 guests measuring seven mid-scale full service hotels and measures opinions of guests who stayed in a hotel June 2011-May 2012.
Proprietary study results are based on experiences and perceptions of consumers surveyed August 2011-May 2012.
60 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2012 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Broadwater Park, Denham, Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR United Kingdom Tel 44 0 1895 512 000 Fax 44 0 1895 512 101 Web www.
