Accounting policies Basis of consolidation General information The Group Financial Statements comprise the Financial Statements The Consolidated Financial Statements of InterContinental Hotels of the parent company and entities controlled by the Company.
Group PLC the Group or IHG for the year ended 31 December 2012 All intra-group balances and transactions have been eliminated.
were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 18 February 2013.
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC The results of those businesses acquired or disposed of are the Company is incorporated and domiciled in Great Britain and consolidated for the period during which they were under the registered in England and Wales.
Foreign currencies Summary of significant accounting policies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to functional Basis of preparation currency at the exchange rates ruling on the dates of the The Consolidated Financial Statements of IHG have been prepared transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional currency at IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in the relevant rates of exchange ruling on the last day of the period.
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised Changes in accounting policies in the income statement except on foreign currency borrowings With effect from 1 January 2012, the Group has implemented that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign operation.
the following amendments to accounting standards.
Neither of These are taken directly to the currency translation reserve until these have had any impact on the Groups financial performance the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recycled or position during the year and there has been no requirement to against the gain or loss on disposal.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill, IFRS 7 Amendment Financial Instruments: Disclosures, are translated into US dollars at the relevant rates of exchange requires additional disclosures about financial assets that have ruling on the last day of the period.
The revenues and expenses of been transferred but not derecognised and about continuing foreign operations are translated into US dollars at average rates involvement in derecognised assets.
of exchange for the period.
The exchange differences arising on the retranslation are taken directly to the currency translation IAS 12 Amendment Income Taxes, introduces a rebuttable reserve.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative amount presumption that deferred tax on investment property measured recognised in the currency translation reserve relating to that at fair value should be determined on the basis that its carrying particular foreign operation is recycled against the gain or loss amount will be recovered through sale.
The amendment also on disposal.
introduces the requirement that deferred tax on non-depreciable assets measured using the revaluation model in IAS 16 will Property, plant and equipment always be measured on a sale basis of the asset.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation and any impairment.
Presentational currency The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in millions Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
of US dollars following a management decision to change the Land is not depreciated.
All other property, plant and equipment reporting currency from sterling during 2008.
The change was are depreciated to a residual value over their estimated useful made to reflect the profile of the Groups revenue and operating lives, namely: profit which are primarily generated in US dollars or US dollarbuildings lesser of 50 years and unexpired term of lease: and linked currencies.
fixtures, fittings and equipment three to 25 years.
The currency translation reserve was set to nil at 1 January 2004 on transition to IFRS and this reserve is presented on the All depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis.
Residual value basis that the Group has reported in US dollars since this date.
Equity share capital, the capital redemption reserve and shares Property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment when held by employee share trusts are translated into US dollars at events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value the rates of exchange on the last day of the period: the resultant may not be recoverable.
Assets that do not generate independent exchange differences are recorded in other reserves.
cash flows are combined into cash-generating units.
If carrying values exceed their estimated recoverable amount, the assets The functional currency of the parent company remains sterling or cash-generating units are written down to the recoverable since this is a non-trading holding company located in the United amount.
Recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs Kingdom that has sterling denominated share capital and whose to sell and value in use.
Value in use is assessed based on estimated primary activity is the payment and receipt of interest on sterling future cash flows discounted to their present value using a pre-tax denominated external borrowings and inter-company balances.
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses, and any subsequent reversals, are recognised in the income statement.
90 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION On adoption of IFRS, the Group retained previous revaluations of Associates and joint ventures property, plant and equipment which are included at deemed cost as An associate is an entity over which the Group has the ability to permitted by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial exercise significant influence, but not control or jointly control, Reporting Standards.
through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity.
Goodwill A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more Goodwill arises on consolidation and is recorded at cost, being the venturers exercise joint control over the entity and unanimous excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value at the date of agreement is required to make strategic financial and operating acquisition of the Groups share of identifiable assets, liabilities policy decisions.
With effect from 1 January 2010, transaction costs are expensed and therefore not included in Associates and jointly controlled entities are accounted for the cost of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is using the equity method unless the associate or jointly controlled measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
entity is classified as held for sale.
Under the equity method, the Groups investment is recorded at cost adjusted by the Groups Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually by comparing share of post-acquisition profits and losses and other movements carrying values of cash-generating units with their recoverable in the investees reserves.
When the Groups share of losses amounts.
Impairment losses cannot be subsequently reversed.
exceeds its interest in an associate or joint venture, the Groups Intangible assets carrying amount is reduced to $nil and recognition of further losses Software is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred Acquired software and software developed in-house are capitalised legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the associate or jointly controlled entity.
Costs are amortised over estimated useful lives Financial assets of three to five years on a straight-line basis.
The Group classifies its financial assets into one of the two Internally generated development costs are expensed unless forecast following categories: loans and receivables or available-for-sale revenues exceed attributable forecast development costs, in which financial assets.
Management determines the classification of case they are capitalised and amortised over the estimated useful financial assets on initial recognition and they are subsequently life of the asset.
held at amortised cost loans and receivables or fair value Management contracts available-for-sale financial assets.
Interest on loans and When assets are sold and a purchaser enters into a franchise or receivables is calculated using the effective interest rate method management contract with the Group, the Group capitalises as part and is recognised in the income statement as interest income.
of the gain or loss on disposal an estimate of the fair value of the Changes in fair values of available-for-sale financial assets are contract entered into.
The value of management contracts is recorded directly in equity within the unrealised gains and losses amortised over the life of the contract which ranges from six to 50 reserve.
On disposal, the accumulated fair value adjustments years on a straight-line basis.
recognised in equity are recycled to the income statement.
Dividends from available-for-sale financial assets are recognised Other intangible assets in the income statement as other operating income and expenses.
Amounts paid to hotel owners to secure management contracts Financial assets are assessed for impairment at each period-end and franchise agreements are capitalised and normally amortised date.
In the case of an equity investment classified as available-forover the shorter of the contracted period and 10 years on a sale, a significant or prolonged decline in fair value below cost is straight-line basis.
evidence that the asset is impaired.
If an available-for-sale financial Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or asset is impaired, the difference between original cost and fair changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may value is transferred from equity to the income statement to the not be recoverable.
extent of any cumulative loss recorded in equity, with any excess charged directly to the income statement.
Subsequent impairment Borrowing costs reversals relating to previously impaired equity instruments are Borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition or construction of recorded in equity.
property, plant and equipment or in respect of software projects that necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for Inventories their intended use, or sale, are capitalised as part of the asset cost.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
All borrowing Trade receivables costs relating to projects commencing before 1 January 2009 Trade receivables are recorded at their original amount less were expensed.
It is the Groups policy to provide for 100% of the previous months aged receivables balances which are more than 180 days past due.
Adjustments to the policy may be made due to specific or exceptional circumstances when collection is no longer considered probable.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through the use of a provision account and movements in the provision are recognised in the income statement within cost of sales.
When a previously provided trade receivable is uncollectable, it is written off against the provision.
Accounting policies 91 Accounting policies continued Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as net Cash and cash equivalents investment hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
and the currency translation reserve to the extent that the hedges Cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments with an are effective.
The cumulative gains and losses remain in equity original maturity of three months or less that are readily convertible until a foreign operation is sold, at which point they are reclassified to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of to the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives which have either not been In the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are shown designated as hedging instruments or relate to the ineffective portion net of short-term overdrafts which are repayable on demand and of hedges are recognised immediately in the income statement.
form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Documentation outlining the measurement and effectiveness of Assets held for sale any hedging arrangements is maintained throughout the life of the Non-current assets and associated liabilities are classified as held hedge relationship.
for sale when their carrying amount will be recovered principally Interest arising from currency derivatives and interest rate swaps through a sale transaction rather than continuing use and a sale is recorded in either financial income or expenses over the term of is highly probable.
the agreement, unless the accounting treatment for the hedging Assets designated as held for sale are held at the lower of carrying relationship requires the interest to be taken to reserves.
amount at designation and fair value less costs to sell.
Self insurance Depreciation is not charged against property, plant and equipment Liabilities in respect of self insured risks include projected classified as held for sale.
settlements for known and incurred but not reported claims.
Financial liabilities Projected settlements are estimated based on historical trends Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective and actuarial data.
A financial liability is derecognised when the Provisions obligation under the liability expires, is discharged or cancelled.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation Trade payables as a result of a past event, it is probable that a payment will be Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are stated at their made and a reliable estimate of the amount payable can be made.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is discounted.
Bank and other borrowings Bank and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value An onerous contract provision is recognised when the unavoidable of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs of meeting the obligations under a contract exceed the costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance economic benefits expected to be received under it.
charges, including the transaction costs and any discount or In respect of litigation, provision is made when management premium on issue, are recognised in the income statement using consider it probable that payment may occur even though the the effective interest rate method.
defence of the related claim may still be ongoing through the Borrowings are classified as non-current when the repayment date court process.
is more than 12 months from the period-end date or where they are Taxes drawn on a facility with more than 12 months to expiry.
Current tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior Derivative financial instruments and hedging periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from Derivatives are initially recognised and subsequently remeasured or paid to the tax authorities including interest.
The tax rates and at fair value.
The method of recognising the remeasurement tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow Deferred tax hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in respect unrealised gains and losses reserve to the extent that the hedges of temporary differences between the tax base and carrying value are effective.
When the hedged item is recognised, the cumulative of assets and liabilities including accelerated capital allowances, gains and losses on the related hedging instrument are reclassified unrelieved tax losses, unremitted profits from overseas where to the income statement.
the Group does not control remittance, gains rolled over into replacement assets, gains on previously revalued properties and other short-term temporary differences.
92 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded Revenue recognition as probable that the deductible temporary differences can be Revenue arises from the sale of goods and provision of services realised.
The recoverability of all deferred tax assets is reassessed where these activities give rise to economic benefits received and at the end of each reporting period.
receivable by the Group on its own account and result in increases in equity.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability will be settled, based Revenue is derived from the following sources: franchise fees: on rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the management fees: owned and leased properties and other reporting period.
revenues which are ancillary to the Groups operations, including technology fee income.
Retirement benefits Generally, revenue represents sales excluding VAT and similar Defined contribution plans taxes of goods and services, net of discounts, provided in the Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to the normal course of business and recognised when services have income statement as they fall due.
The following is a description of the composition Defined benefit plans of revenues of the Group.
Plan assets are measured at fair value and plan liabilities are Franchise fees received in connection with the license of the measured on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with method and discounting at an interest rate equivalent to the current the hotel owner.
The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent percentage of rooms revenue.
Revenue is recognised when earned currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The difference between and realised or realisable under the terms of the contract.
the value of plan assets and liabilities at the period-end date is the Management fees earned from hotels managed by the Group, amount of surplus or deficit recorded in the statement of financial usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
position as an asset or liability.
An asset is recognised when the Management fees include a base fee, which is generally a employer has an unconditional right to use the surplus at some percentage of hotel revenue, and an incentive fee, which is point during the life of the plan or on its wind-up.
If a refund would generally based on the hotels profitability or cash flows.
Revenue be subject to a tax other than income tax, as is the case in the UK, is recognised when earned and realised or realisable under the the asset is recorded at the amount net of the tax.
A liability is also terms of the contract.
recorded for any such tax that would be payable in respect of funding commitments based on the accounting assumption that Owned and leased primarily derived from hotel operations, the related payments increase the asset.
including the rental of rooms and food and beverage sales from owned and leased hotels operated under the Groups brand names.
The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees for Revenue is recognised when rooms are occupied and food and the year is charged to the income statement.
The cost of making beverages are sold.
improvements to pensions is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period during which any increase Share-based payments in benefits vests.
To the extent that improvements in benefits vest The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured immediately, the cost is recognised immediately as an expense.
by reference to fair value at the date at which the right to the shares Curtailment gains arising from the cessation of future benefit is granted.
Fair value is determined by an external valuer using accrual are recognised in the period in which the defined benefit option pricing models.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together Actuarial gains and losses may result from: differences between with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the expected return and the actual return on plan assets: any performance or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying the plan date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the liabilities and actual experience during the year: or changes in the award vesting date.
actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the plan liabilities.
The income statement charge for a period represents the Actuarial gains and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognised movement in cumulative expense recognised at the beginning and in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not Actuarial valuations are normally carried out every three years and ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon are updated for material transactions and other material changes a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting in circumstances including changes in market prices and interest irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition rates up to the end of the reporting period.
is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005.
Accounting policies 93 Accounting policies continued Leases The estimates and assumptions that have the most significant effect Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on on the amounts recognised in these Financial Statements are: a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Trade receivables a provision for impairment of trade receivables Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group is made on the basis of historical experience and other factors substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of considered relevant by management.
the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease, with Impairment the Group determines whether goodwill is impaired a corresponding liability being recognised for the fair value of the on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indicators of leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease impairment.
Other non-current assets, including property, plant payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction and equipment, are tested for impairment if there are indicators of the lease liability and finance charges in the income statement so of impairment.
Impairment testing requires an estimate of future as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate and, in the of the liability.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated case of hotels, an assessment of recoverable amount based on over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the comparable market transactions.
System Fund in addition to management or franchise fees, hotels Disposal of non-current assets within the IHG System pay cash assessments and contributions The Group recognises sales proceeds and any related gain which are collected by IHG for specific use within the System Fund or loss on disposal on completion of the sales process.
The Fund also receives proceeds from the sale of In determining whether the gain or loss should be recorded, Priority Club Rewards points.
IHG exerts significant influence over the Group considers whether it: the operation of the Fund, however the Fund is managed for the benefit of hotels in the System with the objective of driving revenues has a continuing managerial involvement to the degree for the hotels.
The Fund is used to pay for marketing, the Priority associated with asset ownership: Club Rewards loyalty programme and the global reservation has transferred the significant risks and rewards associated system.
The Fund is planned to operate at breakeven with any with asset ownership: and short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group statement can reliably measure and will actually receive the proceeds.
of financial position within working capital.
Discontinued operations As all Fund income is designated for specific purposes and does Discontinued operations are those relating to hotels or operations not result in a profit or loss for the Group, the revenue recognition sold or those classified as held for sale when the results relate to criteria as outlined in the accounting policy above are not met and a separate line of business, geographical area of operations, or therefore the income and expenses of the Fund are not included where there is a co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate line in the Group income statement.
of business or geographical area of operations.
The assets and liabilities relating to the Fund are included in the appropriate headings in the Group statement of financial position Exceptional items as the related legal, but not beneficial, rights and obligations rest The Group discloses certain financial information both including with the Group.
These assets and liabilities include the Priority Club and excluding exceptional items.
The presentation of information Rewards liability, short-term timing surpluses and deficits and any excluding exceptional items allows a better understanding of the receivables and payables related to the Fund.
underlying trading performance of the Group and provides The cash flows relating to the Fund are reported within cash flow consistency with the Groups internal management reporting.
from operations in the Group statement of cash flows due to the Exceptional items are identified by virtue of either their size or close interrelationship between the Fund and the trading nature so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to operations of the Group.
assess underlying trends in financial performance.
Exceptional items can include, but are not restricted to, gains and losses Further information on the Fund is included in note 33. on the disposal of assets, impairment charges and reversals, Loyalty programme the hotel loyalty programme, Priority Club restructuring costs and the release of tax provisions.
Rewards, enables members to earn points, funded through hotel Use of accounting estimates and judgements assessments, during each qualifying stay at an IHG branded hotel The preparation of financial statements requires management and redeem points at a later date for free accommodation or other to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported benefits.
The future redemption liability is included in trade and amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets other payables and is estimated using eventual redemption rates and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the determined by actuarial methods and points values.
Actuarial gains reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting and losses on the future redemption liability are borne by the period.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under System Fund and any resulting changes in the liability would different assumptions and conditions.
correspondingly adjust the amount of short-term timing surpluses and deficits held in the Group statement of financial position.
94 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, which will be Retirement and other post-employment benefits the cost adopted by the Group from 1 January 2013, introduces a single of defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment control model for all entities, including special purpose entities, benefits is determined using actuarial valuations.
The actuarial which will require significant judgement to determine which valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, entities are controlled and therefore consolidated in the Group expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, Financial Statements.
Based on the preliminary analyses mortality rates and future pension increases.
performed, IFRS 10 is not expected to have any material impact Tax provisions for tax accruals require judgements on the on the investments held by the Group.
interpretation of tax legislation, developments in tax case law and the potential outcomes of tax audits and appeals.
In addition, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, which will be adopted by the Group deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax attributes to the from 1 January 2013, eliminates the option to account for jointly extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against controlled entities JCEs using proportionate consolidation.
The which they can be utilised.
Judgement is required as to the amount Group currently accounts for its JCEs using the equity method that can be recognised based on the likely amount and timing of which is the requirement of IFRS 11. future taxable profits.
Deferred tax balances are dependent on IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, which will be managements expectations regarding the manner and timing adopted by the Group from 1 January 2013, incorporates all of of recovery of the related assets.
the disclosures required in respect of an entitys interests in Other the Group also makes estimates and judgements in the subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured valuation of franchise and management agreements acquired entities.
The requirements are extensive and likely to result in on asset disposals, the valuation of financial assets classified as new disclosures in the Group Financial Statements.
available-for-sale, the outcome of legal proceedings and claims IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, which is effective from and in the valuation of share-based payment costs.
1 January 2013, establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not change New standards issued but not effective when an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides The following accounting standards, amendments and guidance on how to measure fair value when fair value is required interpretations with an effective date after the date of these or permitted.
Based on the preliminary analyses performed, Financial Statements have not been adopted early by the Group IFRS 13 is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups and will be adopted as set out below.
Unless otherwise indicated, Financial Statements.
the Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations will have a material impact on the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement, Groups reported income or net assets in the period of adoption.
which is effective from 1 January 2015, introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements, and financial liabilities and, when finalised, will address hedge which is effective from 1 July 2012, changes the grouping of items accounting and impairment of financial assets.
The Group will presented in other comprehensive income OCI so that items assess the impacts when the final standard is issued.
which may be reclassified to profit or loss in the future are Note: with the exception of IFRS 9, all of the above will be adopted presented separately from items that will never be reclassified.
by the Group with effect from 1 January 2013.
IAS 28 Amendment, IAS 19 Revised Employee Benefits, which is effective from IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 have been endorsed for adoption by 1 January 2013, introduces numerous changes including the the EU with effect from 1 January 2014 and are therefore being removal of the option to defer recognition of some actuarial adopted early by the Group.
gains and losses the corridor mechanism and the concept of expected returns on plan assets.
The Group currently recognises all actuarial gains and losses in OCI, therefore the removal of the corridor mechanism will have no impact on financial performance or position.
The impact of calculating the expected return on plan assets after relevant asset restrictions using the same interest rate as applied to discounting the benefit obligations is expected to result in a higher operating profit charge of approximately $3m in 2013 compared with the 2012 charge under the current version of IAS 19.
IAS 28 Amendment Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, which will be adopted by the Group from 1 January 2013, has been renamed as a consequence of the new IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 see below and describes the application of the equity method to investments in joint ventures in addition to associates.
