Other information Glossary adjusted excluding the effect of exceptional items hedging the reduction of risk, normally in relation and any relevant tax.
to foreign currency or interest rate movements, by making offsetting average daily rate rooms revenue divided by the number of commitments.
Also known as average room rate.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
basic earnings per profit available for IHG equity holders ordinary share d ivided by the weighted average number interest rate swap an agreement to exchange fixed for of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
floating interest rate streams or vice versa on a notional principal.
capital expenditure purchases of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, associate managed leases properties structured for legal reasons and joint venture investments and other as operating leases but with the same financial assets.
Carbon Disclosure the CDP is a global, voluntary questionnaire management contract a contract to operate a hotel on behalf Project CDP which allows organisations to disclose of the hotel owner.
their carbon emissions and steps that they market capitalisation the value attributed to a listed company are taking to reduce them.
by multiplying its share price by the cash-generating units the smallest identifiable groups of assets number of shares in issue.
that generate cash inflows that are largely midscale hotels in the three four star category independent of the cash inflows from other eg, The Holiday Inn brand family.
assets, or groups of assets.
net debt borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, comparable RevPAR a comparison for a grouping of hotels that including the exchange element of the fair have traded in all months in both financial value of currency swaps hedging the years being compared.
excludes new hotels, hotels closed for major refurbishment and hotels sold in occupancy rate rooms occupied by hotel guests, either of the two years.
expressed as a percentage of rooms that are available.
constant currency a current year value translated using the previous years exchange rates.
pipeline hotels rooms that will enter the Groups System at a future date.
A new hotel contingencies liabilities that are contingent upon the only enters the pipeline once a contract occurrence of one or more uncertain has been signed and the appropriate fees future events.
In rare circumstances, a hotel will continuing operations operations not classified as discontinued.
not open for reasons such as the financing being withdrawn.
currency swap an exchange of a deposit and a borrowing, each denominated in a different currency, revenue per rooms revenue divided by the number of for an agreed period of time.
available room room nights that are available can be RevPAR mathematically derived from occupancy derivatives a financial instrument used to reduce risk, rate multiplied by average daily rate.
the price of which is derived from an underlying asset, index or rate.
room count number of rooms franchised, managed, owned or leased by IHG.
discontinued operations hotels or operations sold or those classified as held for sale when the results rooms revenue revenue generated from the sale of relate to a separate line of business, room nights.
geographical area of operations, or where royalty revenues rooms revenue that a franchisee pays to there is a co-ordinated plan to dispose the brand owner for use of the brand name.
of a separate line of business or geographical area of operations.
subsidiary undertaking a company over which the Group exercises control.
exceptional items items which are disclosed separately because of their size or nature.
System size the number of hotels rooms franchised, managed, owned or leased by IHG.
extended stay hotels designed for guests staying for periods of time longer than a few nights technology income income received from hotels under and tending to have a higher proportion of franchise and management agreements suites than normal hotels eg, Staybridge for the use of IHGs proprietary Suites, Candlewood Suites.
fee based margins operating profit as a percentage of revenue, total gross revenue total rooms revenue from franchised excluding revenue and operating profit hotels and total hotel revenue from from owned and leased hotels, managed managed, owned and leased hotels.
leases and significant liquidated damages.
Total Shareholder the theoretical growth in value of a fee revenue Group revenue excluding revenue from Return TSR shareholding over a period, by reference owned and leased hotels, managed leases to the beginning and ending share price, and significant liquidated damages.
and assuming that gross dividends, including special dividends, are reinvested franchisee operator who uses a brand under licence to purchase additional units of the equity.
from the brand owner eg, IHG.
UK GAAP United Kingdom Generally Accepted franchisor brand owner eg, IHG who licenses brands Accounting Practice.
working capital the sum of inventories, receivables and goodwill the difference between the consideration payables of a trading nature, excluding given for a business and the total of the financing and taxation items.
fair values of the separable assets and liabilities comprising that business.
136 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
