10 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Business review Intertek Operations Committee The day-to-day management of the Group is undertaken by the Intertek Operations Committee IOC.
The IOC currently comprises the two Executive Directors, the five Executive Vice Presidents who head up the operating divisions, the Group Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive officer Vice President Human Resources and the Chief Information officer.
Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive officer in March 2005 after serving as a Non-Executive Director since November 2002.
Wolfhart Hauser was previously Chief Executive officer and President of TV Sddeutschland AG for four years and Chief Executive officer of TV Product Services for 10 years.
Starting his career with various research activities he went on to establish and lead a broad range of successful international service industry businesses.
He has held several non-executive board director and chairman roles in a variety of technology companies.
Jonathan Lawrence Andrew Swift Group Vice President Division Executive Vice President Human Resources Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Joined Intertek in 2005.
Jonathan Lawrence Joined Intertek in 2001.
Prior to assuming has many years experience as an international his current role in January 2008, Andrew human resources director in the testing and Swift was Vice President of Global inspection business and has been previously Outsourcing within Interteks Oil, Chemical based in the UK, France and the USA.
In & Agri division, having originally started as addition to human resources, Jonathan directs Business Development Manager and then sustainability and internal communications Director of Global Outsourcing.
Andrew across the Intertek Group.
Before moving to began his career by launching CSMA Ltd, Intertek, he was Group Senior Vice President where he became Managing Director in of Human Resources at Bureau Veritas.
He is a member of the Royal Society Jonathan began his career as a Chartered of Chemistry.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 Lloyd Pitchford Paul Yao Stefan Butz Chief Financial officer Group Executive Vice President Group Executive Vice President Consumer Goods Industry & Assurance Joined Intertek in 2010.
Appointed to the Joined Intertek in 1994.
Paul Yao was Joined Intertek in 2008.
In addition to Industry Board as Chief Financial officer in April 2010. appointed a member of the Executive & Assurance, Stefan Butz has responsibility for Lloyd Pitchford previously spent 10 years with Management Team on 1 July 2006.
Prior to the Group functions of Strategy, Corporate this, from January 2003 he was Vice President BG Group plc in various operational and Development and Marketing.
Stefan has held corporate finance roles in the UK and Middle with responsibility for Consumer Goods in this role since January 2008, when he joined China and Taiwan.
Before joining Intertek, East: including five years as Group Financial Intertek from TV SD, where he held the Controller.
He previously worked for Mobil Oil Paul worked in Regional Sales & Marketing position of CEO Americas, with an earlier for companies such as Hitachi Chemical, role as Head of Corporate Development.
Corporation in various financial, commercial and management roles.
Brent Plc and SISIR Singapore.
Prior to this he was a Strategy Consultant with Accenture Germany.
Gregg Tiemann Jay Gutierrez Ann-Michele Bowlin Division Executive Vice President Division Executive Vice President Chief Information officer Commercial & Electrical Commodities Joined Intertek in 1993.
Prior to assuming Joined Intertek in 1997.
Jay Gutierrez assumed Joined Intertek in 2009.
Ann-Michele Bowlin his current role in January 2008, and added his current role in January 2008, Gregg was appointed Chief Information officer of Tiemann was President of Interteks Government Services in January 2009 and Intertek in September 2010 and joined the Minerals in January 2011.
Previously, he was IOC on 1 January 2012.
She is responsible for Commercial & Electrical division in Europe and the Americas since 2004, having started Vice President for the Oil, Chemical and Agri driving the Groups IT strategy and its alignment as General Manager of the Los Angeles and division in the Americas.
Jay has 30 years with the wider organisation.
Ann-Michele Mexico City laboratories in 1993.
Before experience in the cargo inspection and testing joined as Group Vice President, Shared Services, joining Intertek, Gregg worked in sales industry.
He began his career with Intertek to work with business and finance leaders to and marketing for the software industry.
with a focus to develop the Chemical business develop the Group shared services strategy.
stream, later assuming responsibility for Prior to joining Intertek, Ann-Michele held International Coordination and Sales & leadership and operational positions in a Marketing.
Prior to joining Intertek he variety of industries including manufacturing, spent eight years as General Manager technology, travel and professional services.
