Invensys Operations Management Continuing good growth across all lines of business 1 Year ended 31 March 2012 2011 % change at CER % total change Orders m 1,266 1,340 4 6 Order book m 1,088 1,124 2 3 Revenue m 1,272 1,147 12 11 2 Operating profit m 96 123 21 22 2 Operating margin % 7.5% 10.7% Operating cash flow m 123 110 14 12 Operating cash conversion % 128% 89% Employees at year end numbers 9,544 8,897 7 1 % change is measured as the change at CER as a percentage of the 2011 adjusted base and is calculated on underlying amounts in 000s.
2 All references to operating profit and operating margin are arrived at before exceptional items, unless otherwise stated.
Invensys Operations Management is Markets Developments a leading global technology, software The strength shown by Invensys Leadership and focus and consulting business that creates Operations Managements markets in Michael J Mike Caliel joined the division and applies advanced technologies to 2011 continued across all regions and as President and CEO with effect from enable the safe and efficient operation business segments.
Mike was previously of industrial and commercial operations withInvensys from 1993 to 2006, latterly such as oil refineries, fossil fuel and The rapidly developing economies of asChief Executive of Invensys Process nuclear power plants, petrochemical the Middle East, Asia and South America Systems, the largest of the predecessor works and other manufacturing sites.
continue to expand greenfield capacity in companies that were brought together to the power, upstream and downstream oil form Invensys Operations Management in and gas and petrochemical sectors to meet early 2009.
He has over 25 years experience consumer and export demands.
In North in the industries in which the division America and Europe, growth was good operates and has in-depth knowledge across all of our markets due to increased ofour customers as well as our products investment in ageing assets, transfer of and technologies.
His enthusiasm and knowledge and replacement of assets.
drive will now be directed to building Across our lines of business, systems onthe divisions strong market positions.
continued to grow based on services and During the year, we established a line upgrades of ageing assets in the developed of business structure within the division world and good prospects for larger systems, software and equipment, each projects with some schemes, previously with its own leadership team responsible deferred, being reactivated.
Software is for strategy, commercial activities and seeing excellent recovery in areas such as operational delivery.
This structure has optimisation, Human Machine Interface been established to drive accountability HMI and Manufacturing Execution and to increase focus to ensure that we Systems MES.
The equipment business deliver the best value across our portfolio.
isstill seeing good growth driven by In addition, we announced in November continuing investment in the energy 2011 the formation of a separate global sector, particularly in upstream oil and nuclear business unit to recognise the gasin North America.
significance of the nuclear industry to this Looking forward, although macroeconomic division: nuclear represented around 6% conditions remain uncertain, we believe of the divisions revenue in the year.
that the demands for new capacity in emerging markets and the need to improve Contracts the efficiency of brownfield operations in We continued to grow our business in the the developed world will continue to drive year with some key contract wins related to growth in this division.
our capabilities in software technologies and in large and complex control and safety systems.
20 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information 1 Revenue by sector % Revenue by destination % Revenue by line of business % Oil and gas 33 UK 4 Systems 60 General industries 27 Rest of Europe 22 Software 18 Utilities and power 14 North America 29 Equipment 22 Discrete manufacturing 7 South America 7 Petrochemicals 5 Asia Pacic 24 Other 14 Africa Middle East 14 1 Our enterprise control offerings are spreadacross all three product catagories.
A joint venture Performance We announced an alliance with between Saudi Aramco and Total France, Order intake in the year was strong Microsoft Corp. for migrating some of SATORP is constructing a state-of-the-art, across all regions and business segments.
our applications to the Windows Azure 400,000 barrel-per-day refinery in Jubail, Excluding two large China nuclear orders cloud.
By bringing together industrial Saudi Arabia, that is expected to be last year, the underlying rate of order thought and technology leaders, the operational before the end of 2013. increase was 11% at CER with orders in the alliance expands the companys Inastrategic alliance with Wipro Arabia systems, software and equipment lines of continuing relationship with Microsoft Limited, we will provide an integrated business up 7%, 20% and 11% respectively.
and will afford end users cloud-based InFusion enterprise control solution.
Reported order intake was 1,266 million offerings in the manufacturing and 2011: 1,340 million.
As Systems Microsofts Alliance ISV Industry Partner In the second half of the year following The order book at 31 March 2012 was of the Year in 2011, this alliance further the creation of the separate nuclear 1,088 million 2011: 1,124 million, a defines our position as a leading business unit within systems, a review decrease during the period of 3% as we provider of automation solutions that was carried out of the engineering continue to execute the large contracts help optimise manufacturing business requirements and associated costs awarded in recent years.
In addition, the operations in real time.
for the three contracts to install and three-year pipeline of order prospects We signed a multi-year, multi-million commission control and safety systems remains strong at around 3 billion.
dollar contract to deliver comprehensive into eight nuclear reactors under Revenue in the year was up 12% at CER to software solutions and services for Shell.
The review 1,272 million 2011: 1,147 million driven This will provide a suite of our SimSciconcluded that there will be a delay in by the significant increase in revenue from Esscor simulation solutions, including delivery and the need for additional large projects, which accounted for 15% our ROMeo optimisation software and engineering to be carried out on the first of revenue in the period, together with other simulation and modelling solutions, contract, some of which will be reused strong growth in software and equipment.
to improve Shells global upstream, on the later contracts.
We announced Revenue in the systems, software and downstream and petrochemicals inJanuary 2012 that the cost of the equipment lines of business were up production, helping it to achieve additional engineering amounted to 14%, 16% and 6% respectively at CER.
operational excellence in real time.
Since then, work The US Department of Energy has has proceeded on the revised designs Operating profit was down 21% at CER at deployed a first-of-its-kind operator in accordance with our expectations.
96 million 2011: 123 million due to the training simulator for an integrated However until we have made further 40 million additional costs in respect of gasification combined cycle IGCC significant progress in project execution, our nuclear projects in China: excluding power plant with carbon capture using we will not be recognising any profits these costs, operating profit would have our innovative simulation softwarefrom these three contracts.
Operating margin based training solutions.
Our SimSciInvensys Operations Management was 7.5% 2011: 10.7% or 10.7% excluding Esscor DYNSIM high-fidelity simulator signed two contracts with TNK-BP, the the additional costs.
will help train operators for new IGCC third largest oil company in Russia and Operating cash flow was 123 million plants now being built in the US.
IGCC among the top 10 private oil companies 2011: 110 million resulting in cash with carbon capture holds tremendous in the world by production volumes.
We conversion for the year of 128% 2011: 89% promise as a low-cost, clean energy will provide comprehensive automation or 90% excluding the additional costs.
source so IGCC plants are expected to solutions and services to help drive be a key resource for the provision of control, environment and safety clean fossil power in the near future.
excellence at TNK-BPs Saratov oil We signed a multi-million dollar contract refinery in western Russia, a seven to implement an integrated refinery million tonnes per year refinery.
information system IRIS for Saudi Aramco Total Refining & Petrochemical Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
