Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Notes to the Financial Statements 1 General information The Group Financial Statements of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2012 were authorised for issue in accordance witharesolution of the directors on 16 May 2012 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Wayne Edmunds and David Thomas.
Invensys plc is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in England & Wales whose shares are publiclytraded.
Invensys Group comprises continuing operations and discontinued operations.
No further operations have been discontinued in the current year.
Additional costs have been incurred relating to prior year disposals.
Operations presented as discontinued are explained in Note 11.
Continuing operations consist of the following divisions: Invensys Operations Management, Invensys Rail and Invensys Controls.
The principal activities of each of the continuing operations divisions are as follows: Invensys Operations Management is a technology, software and consulting business that creates and applies technologies to enable the safe and efficient operation of industrial and commercial operations such as oil refineries, fossil fuel and nuclear power plants, petrochemical works and other manufacturing sites.
Invensys Rail provides software-based signalling, communication and control systems that enable the safe and efficient operation of trains in mainline and mass transit networks across the world.
Invensys Controls designs, engineers and manufactures products, components, systems and services used in appliances, heating, air conditioning cooling and refrigeration products across a wide range of industries in residential and commercial markets.
Further details on the activities of each of the above continuing operations are given in the Our Business Model section of this Annual Report and Accounts.
This is the basis on which the Group is managed.
2 Accounting policies Statement of compliance The Groups consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Basis of preparation The accounting policies which follow set out the policies and measurement bases that have been applied in preparing the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012.
The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in sterling and all amounts are rounded to the nearest million m unless otherwise indicated.
Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations during the year.
All have been endorsed for use in the EU.
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures revised Amendments to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments Improvements to IFRSs Annual improvements May 2010 Adoption of these standards and interpretations has not had any material effect on the Financial Statements of the Group.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated Financial Statements comprise Invensys plc and its subsidiaries for the financial year to 31 March each year.
The Group does not currently have any material associates.
The Financial Statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Parent Company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intragroup balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired during the year are consolidated up to, or from, the date control passes.
Business combinations completed on or after 1 April 2010 Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of the business combination is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, any non-controlling interest in the acquiree is measured either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Consideration transferred includes any contingent consideration measured at its acquisition date fair value.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
Contingent consideration that qualifies for classification as equity is not remeasured until it is finally settled.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed.
Any excess of the cost of the acquisition over the net identifiable assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the balance sheet.
If the cost is lower than the net identifiable assets acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss.
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 87 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it: Derecognises the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: Derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest: Derecognises the cumulative translation differences, recorded in equity: Recognises the fair value of the consideration received: Recognises the fair value of any investment retained: Recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss: and Reclassifies the parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
If a subsidiary with a non-controlling interest incurs losses, the non-controlling interests share in those losses is attributed to non-controlling interests in equity even if that results in a deficit balance.
Business combinations completed prior to 1 April 2010 In comparison to the approach explained above, the following differences apply to the accounting for business combinations completed prior to 1 April 2010.
Non-controlling interests formerly known as minority interests were measured at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets and costs directly attributable to the acquisition formed part of the cost of the business combination.
Contingent consideration was included in the cost of the business combination if, and only if, the Group had a present obligation, the economic outflow was more likely than not and a reliable estimate could be determined.
Subsequent adjustments to the contingent consideration were recognised as part of goodwill.
On loss of control, the Group accounted for the investment retained at its proportionate share of net asset value at the date control was lost.
The carrying value of such investments at 1 April 2010 has not been restated.
A non-controlling interests share in losses was attributed to non-controlling interests in equity until the balance was reduced to nil.
Any further excess losses were attributed to the parent unless the non-controlling interest had a binding obligation to cover them.
Any such losses prior to 1 April 2010 have not been reallocated between the non-controlling interest and the parent.
In accordance with the exemption permitted by IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, applied by the Group on transition to IFRSs 1 April 2004, business combinations prior to IFRS transition were not restated to comply with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items of income and expense that are separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the Groups financial performance and in making projections of future results.
Such items may be operating or non-operating in nature.
Exceptional items are presented separately on the face of the income statement and analysed in the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Foreign currencies The presentational currency of the Group and functional currency of Invensys plc is sterling.
The Financial Statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries are prepared using their functional currency.
The functional currency is generally the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in the income statement unless: a the monetary assets or liabilities to which they relate form the hedging instrument in a cash flow hedging relationship that qualifies for hedge accounting: or b the monetary assets or liabilities to which they relate form part of a net investment in a foreign operation: in which case they are recognised directly in equity.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of the initial transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the rates prevailing when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the income statement for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly inequity.
88 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Financial statements of foreign operations The trading results of foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange ruling during the year.
Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, including goodwill, are translated into sterling at closing rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, any cumulative exchange differences held in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement, as part of the profit or loss on sale.
Translation differences that arose before the date of transition to IFRSs 1 April 2004 were deemed to be zero at that date.
As a result, if a foreign operation is sold, there is no exchange difference recognised in the income statement relating to the period prior to that date.
Revenue Composition of revenue Revenue comprises the invoiced value of goods and services supplied by the Group excluding intragroup transactions and sales taxes.
Revenue relating to construction contracts, including long-term service provision contracts, represents the value of work performed during the year determined by reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
Discounts given to customers against list prices, such as trade or volume discounts, are deducted in arriving at the value of revenue.
Settlement discounts are reported as an expense in the income statement.
Recognition of revenue and profits Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can bereliably measured.
The specific methods used to recognise the different forms of revenue earned by the Group are set outbelow.
Sale of goods Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured.
For sales of software solutions, revenue is recognised when a signed contract exists, delivery to the customer has occurred, no significant vendor obligations remain and collection of the sales proceeds is considered probable.
A contract to deliver goods, including software solutions, that requires significant production, modification, customisation or integration of the goods, is accounted for in its entirety as a construction contract.
Profit is recognised at the time of sale.
Construction contracts and rendering of services Revenue from construction contracts and long-term service provision contracts is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally determined by the proportion that contract costs incurred to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
If the nature of a particular contract means that costs incurred do not accurately reflect the progress of contract activity, an alternative approach is used such as the achievement of pre-determined contract milestones.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included in revenue from construction contracts when certain criteria are met.
Variations are included when the customer has agreed to the variation or acknowledged liability for the variation in principle.
Claims are included when negotiations with the customer have reached an advanced stage such that the customer is certain to accept the claim.
Incentive payments are included when a contract is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the performance standards triggering the incentive will be achieved.
Profit attributable to contract activity is recognised if the final outcome of such contracts can be reliably assessed.
On all contracts, full provision is made for any losses in the year in which they are first foreseen.
Revenue from services provided on a short-term or one-off basis is recognised when the service is complete.
When a transaction combines a supply of goods with the provision of a significant service, revenue from the provision of the service is recognised separately from the revenue from the sale of goods by reference to the stage of completion of the service unless the service is essential to the functionality of the goods supplied, in which case the whole transaction is treated as a construction contract.
Revenue from a service that is incidental to the supply of goods is recognised at the same time as the revenue from the supply of goods.
Research and development All research expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Development expenditure is expensed as incurred unless it meets the criteria for recognition as an intangible asset see policy on Other intangible assets.
Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits For defined benefit plans, the service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees during the year is charged to operating profit or loss in the year.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
The full cost of providing amendments to benefits in respect of past service that vest immediately is also charged to operating profit or loss in the year.
The expected return on the assets, of the schemes during the year, based on the market value of scheme assets at the start of the financial year is included within Other finance charges IAS 19.
This also includes a charge representing the expected increase in liabilities of the schemes during the year, arising from the liabilities of the scheme being one year closer to payment.
Differences between actual and expected returns on assets during the year are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the year, together with differences from changes in assumptions.
The net surplus or deficit on defined benefit pension schemes is reported on the balance sheet within the pension asset or liability.
com 89 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued The value of any defined benefit asset recognised is restricted to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions to the plan.
When the Group is committed to making minimum funding payments to a defined benefit plan, and the present value of the agreed funding payments exceeds the liability in respect of the plan as measured under IFRSs, a provision is recognised for any part of the resulting surplus that would not be recoverable.
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the income statement in respect of pension costs is the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown either as accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Goodwill On a business combination the net identifiable assets are assessed and adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies of the business acquired into alignment with those of the Group.
For a business combination with an acquisition date on or after 1 April 2010, the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of consideration transferred and the amount recognised for any non-controlling interest in the acquiree over the identifiable net assets acquired is included in intangible assets as goodwill.
For a business combination with an acquisition date before 1 April 2010, goodwill was determined as the excess of the price paid over the Groups interest in the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired.
Any costs of integrating the acquired business are taken to the income statement.
Goodwill arising on business combinations before 1 April 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amount subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired, and it is subsequently carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
TheGroups policy on testing assets for impairment is set out under Impairment of non-financial assets on page 91.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the business sold.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair value at acquisition date.
The cost of separately acquired intangible assets, including computer software, comprises the purchase price and any directly attributable costs of preparing the asset for use.
Amortisation begins when an asset is available for use and is calculated on a straight-line basis to allocate the cost less residual value of assets over their estimated useful lives using the following annual rates or useful lives: Development costs 10 to 25% Computer software costs 10 to 25% Patents, trademarks and licences Shorter of period of the agreement or 15 years Useful lives are examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
No intangible assets other than goodwill are considered to have indefinite useful lives.
Expenditure incurred on development projects is capitalised as an intangible asset if it meets the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38, Intangible Assets.
These require it to be probable that the expenditure will generate future economic benefits and can be measured reliably.
To meet these criteria, it is necessary to be able to demonstrate, among other things, the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale.
Costs incurred in the preliminary stage of a development project are considered to be research costs, and are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
These costs are incurred to determine the product concepts and alternatives, evaluate the alternatives and related risks, assess the technical feasibility of concepts, make the final selection from the possible alternatives and prepare the high level design and project planning.
The costs incurred in the following development stage for substantially new or improved products are assessed against the IAS 38 criteria and considered for recognition as an asset when they meet those criteria.
These costs are generally incurred in developing the detailed product design, software configuration and software interfaces: the coding of software, building of prototypes and integration of the software with hardware: and testing and releasing the product to manufacture and pilot production.
Development expenditure directed towards incremental improvements in existing products does not qualify for recognition as an intangible asset.
In general the costs of developing software products that are sold in packaged form and not integrated and sold with hardware are not recognised as intangible assets.
The uncertainties associated with the functionality of these products mean that technical feasibility is achieved only immediately prior to or after field trial tests at customer sites.
As a result minimal or no costs are considered to meet the IAS 38 criteria for recognition.
An intangible asset acquired in a business combination is recognised separately from the goodwill arising on the business combination if the assets fair value can be measured reliably, regardless of whether the asset had been recognised previously by the acquiree.
90 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises purchase price and directly attributable costs.
Items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives at the following rates applied to original cost: Freehold land nil Freehold buildings 2 to 2.5% Leasehold properties Over the period of the lease Plant and equipment 7 to 35% Useful lives and residual values are examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Impairment of non-financial assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that any non-financial asset excluding goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually whether or not there is any indication of impairment.
Goodwill was also tested for impairment at the date of transition to IFRSs 1 April 2004.
If there is an indication of impairment, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is written down to its recoverable amount and an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset.
If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined.
The calculation of an assets value in use uses a discount rate that reflects the asset specific risks and the time value of money.
Leased assets Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at fair value or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Capitalised leased assets are subsequently depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or the assets useful life.
Obligations related to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as appropriate within liabilities.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Other leases are classified as operating leases.
Lease payments, including any premium paid at the outset of the lease, made under operating leases are recognised as an expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at its inception date and an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one of the following applies: a there is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal or extension of the arrangement: b a renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the lease term: c there is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment is dependent on a specified asset: or d there is a substantial change to the asset.
Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting commences or ceases from the date when the change in circumstances gave rise to the reassessment for scenarios a, c or d and at the date of renewal or extension period for scenario b.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving items.
Cost comprises the cost of raw materials, determined on a first-in, first-out cost basis, and an appropriate proportion of labour and manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity, to reflect the costs incurred in bringing the product to its present location and condition.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, call deposits and other short-term liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Cash and short-term deposits at the balance sheet date are offset against bank loans and overdrafts where formal rights of set-off exist and there is an intention to settle on a net basis.
com 91 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Taxation Income tax on profit or loss Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Current tax The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Taxable profit differs from profit reported in the income statement as it excludes items that are never taxable or deductible, or which are taxable or deductible in other years.
The Groups current tax assets and liabilities are calculated using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
No deferred income tax asset or liability is recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the timing of reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Such assets and liabilities are also not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of assets other than goodwill or liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
A deferred income tax asset is recognised on the initial recognition of goodwill arising in a business combination if the carrying amount of the goodwill is less than its tax base and the deferred income tax asset qualifies for recognition.
No deferred income tax liability is recognised as a result of the initial recognition of goodwill.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Financial instruments Derivative financial instruments The Group primarily uses forward foreign currency contracts to manage its exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
These instruments are accounted for as hedges when they are designated as hedges at the inception of the contract.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading purposes.
All derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet.
The fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts are calculated by reference to forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The designation of derivative financial instruments as hedges is carried out according to the Groups risk management policies.
Hedges fall into three categories: a Fair value hedges, which hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: b Cash flow hedges, which hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to either a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction, or the foreign currency risk of a firm commitment: and c Net investment hedges, which hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Groups net investment in foreign operations due to changes in exchange rates.
The accounting treatment for these categories is outlined below: Fair value hedges When a hedging instrument is remeasured at fair value, any resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the income statement.
92 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Cash flow and net investment hedges The portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity.
Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
When a hedged cash flow related to a hedged item results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects the income statement.
In the case of a net investment hedge, this takes place on disposal.
Where borrowings are used to hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations, the portion of the gain or loss on the borrowings that is determined to be an effective hedge, in accordance with IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, is recognised in equity.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify as hedges are recognised in the income statement.
Derivative instruments held by the Groups pension and post-retirement benefit schemes are accounted for within the schemes themselves and are reflected in the Group Financial Statements within the amounts reported for those schemes.
Other financial assets The Groups other financial assets are classified as either available-for-sale, at fair value through profit or loss, or held-tomaturity.
These financial assets are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured as follows: a at fair value for available-for-sale financial assets.
Gains and losses are recognised in equity except for impairment losses, interest and dividends arising from these assets which are recognised in the income statement: b at fair value for financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Net gains or losses are based on changes in fair value: and c at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, for held-to-maturity financial assets.
Changes to the carrying amount of held-to-maturity assets are recognised in the income statement.
Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
Trade and other receivables are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Any change in their value is recognised in the income statement.
Debt instruments All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable issue costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
This cost is computed as the amount initially recognised minus principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation of any difference between the initially recognised amount and the maturity amount.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement through the amortisation process and when the liabilities are derecognised.
Financial guarantee contracts A financial guarantee contract is a contract issued by the Group that requires the Group to make specified payments to reimburse the holder of the guarantee for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
In a very limited number of cases, the Group has issued such contracts to guarantee certain borrowings by third parties.
Financial guarantee contracts are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at the higher of a the estimated outflow of resources required to meet any present obligation under the contract in accordance with IAS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, and b the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with IAS 18, Revenue.
Derecognition of financial instruments A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
com 93 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Impairment of financial assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost Assets carried at amortised cost, such as loans and receivables, are impaired if there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred.
The loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
The assessment considers whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If the amount of a recognised impairment loss decreases in a subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
The reversal is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
For trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
Available-for-sale financial investments If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from equity to the income statement.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available for sale are not recognised in the income statement.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are reversed through the income statement, if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement.
Share-based payment The Group operates various equity-settled and cash-settled share schemes.
For equity-settled share options, the services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date using a valuation model and recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with a corresponding increase in shareholders equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest.
Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
Market conditions are those conditions that are linked to the share price of the Company.
For equity-settled share award schemes, the fair value is calculated based on the share price at the grant date and, where applicable, any market vesting conditions, and expensed over the vesting period based on the number of shares expected to vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition: which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance or service conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense as if the terms had not been modified, if the original terms of the award are met.
An additional expense is recognised for any modification that increases the total fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
For cash-settled share awards, the services received from employees are measured at fair value and recognised in the consolidated income statement as an expense over the vesting period with recognition of a corresponding liability.
The fair value of the liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at the date of settlement with changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement.
94 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Treasury shares Own equity instruments which are re-acquired treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
Treasury shares are purchased and held by the Employee Share Trust to meet future distributions of shares to employees under the Groups various share option and share award schemes.
New standards and interpretations not applied The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these Financial Statements: Effective date financial periods International Accounting Standards IASs IFRSs beginning on or after IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-Time Adopters 1 July 2011 IFRS 7 Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures: Transfers of Assets 1 July 2011 IAS 12 Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets 1 January 2012 IAS 1 Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income 1 July 2012 IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 Government Loans 1 January 2013 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2013 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2013 IFRS 12 Disclosures of Involvement with Other Entities 1 January 2013 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 IAS 19 Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits 1 January 2013 IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 2011 1 January 2013 IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 1 January 2013 IAS 32 Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement and subsequent amendments 1 January 2015 International Financial Reporting Effective date financial periods Interpretations Committee IFRIC beginning on or after IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine 1 January 2013 The Group expects to adopt these standards and interpretations in accordance with their effective dates.
The amendments to IAS 19 are expected to have an impact on the amounts recognised in profit or loss and other comprehensive income for the Groups defined benefit pension plans.
Under the amendments, the return on plan assets recognised in profit or loss within Other finance charges IAS 19 will be calculated using a plans discount rate, rather than its expected rate of return on plan assets.
Assuming that the discount rate is lower than the expected rate of return on plan assets, this will result in an increase in the net charge recognised as Other finance charges IAS 19 within profit or loss.
The extent of the impact will depend on the discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets that apply when the amendments are first adopted in the financial year ending 31 March 2014.
There will be a corresponding change in the amount recognised in other comprehensive income, so that the net impact on total comprehensive income will be nil.
The Group will assess the impact of this and other aspects of the amendments to IAS 19 prior to their first adoption.
Other than the amendment to IAS 19 noted above, the directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group Financial Statements in the period of initial application.
com 95 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3 Critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions In applying the Groups accounting policies, management is required to make judgements and assumptions concerning the future in a number of areas.
Actual results may be different from those estimated using these judgements andassumptions.
Thekey sources of estimation uncertainty and critical accounting judgements that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Construction and long-term service provision contracts Invensys Operations Management and Invensys Rail undertake projects that frequently span more than one accounting period and are accounted for as construction or long-term service provision contracts.
The Groups accounting policies for these projects require revenues and costs to be allocated to individual accounting periods and the consequent recognition at period end of contract assets or liabilities for projects still in progress.
The application of these policies requires management to apply judgement in estimating the total revenue and total costs expected on each project.
Such estimates are revised as a project progresses to reflect the current status of the project and the latest information available to management.
Project management teams perform regular reviews to ensure the latest estimates are appropriate.
The amount of revenue relating to projects accounted for as construction or long-term service provision contracts recognised inthe year ended 31 March 2012 was 1,233 million 2011: 1,193 million.
The net amount due from contract customers on projects in progress at 31 March 2012 was 56 million 2011: 19 million.
Further details of amounts due from and to contract customers are included in Note 18.
Impairment of goodwill The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating a value in use amount requires management to makean estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate inorder to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 March 2012 was 289 million 2011: 291 million.
Details of the key assumptions used in testing for impairment and the sensitivity of the calculations to any reasonably possible change in those assumptions are given in Note 14.
Pension and post-retirement benefits The cost of defined benefit pension plans and other post employment medical benefits is determined using actuarial valuations.
The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the long-term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty.
The net pension liability at 31 March 2012 was 426 million 2011: 467 million.
Further details, including an analysis of the sensitivity of the Invensys Pension Scheme UK and Invensys Pension Plan US to changes in the principal assumptions, are given in Note 25.
Development costs Costs incurred in developing new products are capitalised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy for other intangible assets.
These costs arise mainly in the Invensys Operations Management and Invensys Rail divisions.
Determining theamounts to be capitalised requires management to make assumptions and estimates regarding the expected future cash generation of new products and the expected period of benefits.
At 31 March 2012, the carrying amount of capitalised development costs was 155 million 2011: 150 million.
Further details including an explanation of impairment losses recognised are given in Note 15.
Provisions and contingent liabilities The Group currently recognises provisions for a number of liabilities including environmental claims and onerous lease rentals.
The amounts recognised for provisions represent the best estimate of the probable outflow of resources embodying economic benefits that will be required to settle these liabilities.
No provisions are recognised for contingent liabilities.
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events, or current obligations that are not recognised because it is not probable that they will result in an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits or because the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
The determination of whether a liability should be disclosed as a contingent liability or recognised as a provision requires judgements to be made on the existence of a present obligation and the probability of future events.
When a provision is required, the amount recognised is determined using judgements and assumptions, based on current knowledge, to estimate the amount and timing of future cash outflows arising from the liabilities.
At 31 March 2012, the estimated amount of liabilities requiring provisions was 139 million 2011: 173 million.
Further details are given in Note 24.
Details of the Groups contingent liabilities are set out in Note 30.
96 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information 4 Operating segment information For management purposes, the Group is organised into divisions based on their products and services and has three reportable operating segments as explained in the Our Business Model section: Invensys Operations Management, Invensys Rail and Invensys Controls.
There have been no changes to the composition of these operating segments during the year.
Descriptions of the products and services provided by these divisions are set out in Note 1.
Operating results of each of these divisions are monitored separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated primarily on operating profit or loss before exceptional items as identified in the consolidated income statement.
Restructuring costs and impairment losses on operating assets, which are reported in the consolidated income statement as exceptional items, are also monitored at the segment level.
Other exceptional items together with foreign exchange gains or losses, finance costs, finance income, finance charges relating to pension arrangements under IAS 19, Employee Benefits and income tax are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
Segment net assets liabilities comprise amounts considered to be net operating assets liabilities used for operating performance assessment: items not included in these net operating assets liabilities are identified in the reconciliation on page 98.
These segments are monitored by divisional chief executives and reviewed by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
Total Inter-company External Total Inter-company External 1 1 revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 Segment revenues m m m m m m Division Invensys Operations Management 1,283 11 1,272 1,156 9 1,147 Invensys Rail 775 775 772 772 Invensys Controls 493 1 492 567 567 Eliminations 12 12 9 9 Continuing operations 2,539 2,539 2,486 2,486 Operating Operating Operating Operating profit loss profit loss profit loss profit loss before before after after exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional items items items items 2012 2011 2012 2011 Segment profit m m m m Division Invensys Operations Management 96 123 90 123 Invensys Rail 116 129 93 118 Invensys Controls 35 56 25 35 Total segment 247 308 208 276 Corporate 38 46 55 35 Continuing operations 209 262 153 241 Reconciliation to profit before taxation: Finance costs 13 9 Finance income 3 4 Other finance charges IAS 19 3 14 Profit before taxation continuing operations 140 222 Depreciation Depreciation Amortisation Amortisation 2012 2011 2012 2011 Components of segment profit: depreciation and amortisation m m m m Division Invensys Operations Management 14 15 14 12 Invensys Rail 5 5 17 14 Invensys Controls 17 20 Corporate 1 1 Continuing operations 37 41 31 26 1 Inter-company revenue is invoiced at prevailing market prices.
com 97 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 4 Operating segment information continued Loss on Loss on Other Other Impairment: Impairment: sale of sale of operating operating 1 PPE PPE assets and assets and exceptional exceptional 2 3 Components of Restructuring Restructuring intangibles intangibles operations operations items items segment profit: 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 othermaterial items m m m m m m m m Division Invensys Operations Management 6 Invensys Rail 13 5 10 6 1 1 Invensys Controls 6 8 3 4 1 1 10 Corporate 6 8 2 9 19 Continuing operations 31 21 15 10 1 9 10 Net assets Net assets liabilities liabilities 2012 2011 Segment net assets liabilities m m Division Invensys Operations Management 189 216 Invensys Rail 183 121 Invensys Controls 157 169 Total segment net assets 529 506 Corporate 79 107 Continuing operations 450 399 Reconciliation to total net assets liabilities : Intangible assets goodwill 289 291 Cash and cash equivalents 263 349 Pension liabilities 426 467 Other borrowings, current and deferred income tax assets liabilities 23 Total net assets 576 549 Capex: Capex: Capex: Capex: intangibles intangibles PPE PPE other other 2012 2011 2012 2011 Components of segment assets: capital expenditure capex m m m m Division Invensys Operations Management 18 13 21 19 Invensys Rail 8 6 30 42 Invensys Controls 10 10 Corporate 2 3 Continuing operations 38 32 51 61 1 Property, plant and equipment.
2 Other exceptional items includes 3 million relating to the Invensys Pension Plan US settlement loss.
3 Other exceptional items includes a past service credit of 20 million arising from amendments made to the benefits payable under the terms of the US Healthcare Plan and net 10 million of costs to settle a legal case.
98 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Geographical analysis External External revenue revenue 2012 2011 Revenue from external customers m m 1 Geographical analysis by origin United Kingdom 368 353 Other regions: Rest of Europe 615 656 United States 772 740 North America other 112 113 South America 149 145 Asia Pacific 396 366 Africa and Middle East 127 113 2,171 2,133 2,539 2,486 2 Geographical analysis by destination United Kingdom 309 299 Other regions: Rest of Europe 573 604 United States 629 623 North America other 129 123 South America 217 213 Asia Pacific 507 453 Africa and Middle East 175 171 2,230 2,187 2,539 2,486 1 Revenue is presented based on the location of the Invensys business making the supply.
2 Revenue is presented based on the location of the customer receiving the supply.
NonNoncurrent current assets assets 2012 2011 3 Non-current assets m m 4 Geographical analysis by origin United Kingdom 229 230 Other regions: Rest of Europe 121 125 United States 252 245 North America other 31 32 South America 19 25 Asia Pacific 52 48 Africa and Middle East 6 5 481 480 710 710 3 Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets goodwill, intangible assets other and other receivables.
4 Information is presented based on the location of the assets.
Information about major customers The Group had no single external customer that accounted for 10% or more of the Groups total external revenues in the years ended 31 March 2012 or 31 March 2011.
com 99 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 5 Operating profit and analysis of revenue 2012 2011 Notes m m Revenue 2,539 2,486 Cost of sales 1,766 1,649 Gross profit 773 837 Distribution costs 10 14 Administrative costs 455 466 Research and development costs 99 95 Operating profit before exceptional items 209 262 Restructuring costs 4 31 21 Other operating exceptional items: Settlement loss on post-retirement benefits 25 3 1 Past service credit on post-retirement benefits 25 20 Curtailment gain on post-retirement benefits 25 1 2 Other operating exceptional items 6 11 Total other operating exceptional items 9 10 Impairment: property, plant and equipment 13 5 4 Impairment: intangible assets other 15 10 6 Loss on sale of assets and operations 4 1 Exceptional items 56 21 Operating profit 153 241 1 2011: arose as a result of amendments made to the benefits payable under the terms of the US Healthcare Plan.
2 2012: charge for environmental provisions of 6 million 2011: includes net 10 million of costs to settle a legal case.
2012 2011 m m Analysis of revenue Sale of goods products 1,177 1,196 Sale of goods solutions 1,130 1,049 Rendering of services 232 241 Revenue 2,539 2,486 Finance income 3 4 Total revenue 2,542 2,490 Operating profit has been arrived at after charging the following: 2012 2011 Notes m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 37 41 1 Amortisation of intangible assets other 15 31 26 Total depreciation and amortisation expense 68 67 Operating lease payments 30 38 37 Employee benefits expense 7 927 892 1 Of which 3 million 2011: 3 million is recorded within cost of sales, 24 million 2011: 20 million in research and development costs, and 4 million 2011: 3 million in administrative costs.
The disclosures related to discontinued operations are set out in Note 11.
100 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information 6 Fees for audit and other services The Group has recognised the following amounts payable to its Group auditor in respect of the fees for audit and other services provided to the Group.
2012 2011 m m Audit of the financial statements 1.5 2.0 Local statutory audits for subsidiaries 1.9 1.9 Fees for audit 3.4 3.9 Fees for non-audit services: 1 Audit related assurance services 0.3 0.3 Taxation compliance services 1.3 1.3 Taxation advisory services 0.7 0.6 2 Other non-audit services 0.4 0.3 Fees for non-audit services 2.7 2.5 Fees for audit and non-audit services 6.1 6.4 1 2012: includes 0.2 million 2011: 0.2 million for the half year review.
2 2012: includes 0.2 million 2011: 0.3 million for services in respect of a programme to rationalise the legal entities of the Group.
In addition Ernst & Young LLP received 0.1 million 2011: 0.1 million for the audit of the Group Pension Schemes.
7 Staff numbers and employee benefits expense The average number of people employed by the Group including directors during the year was as follows: 2012 2011 Production 15,583 15,367 Marketing and distribution 2,080 2,045 Finance and administration 1,578 1,601 Research and development 1,393 1,328 20,634 20,341 The aggregate payroll costs of these people were as follows: 2012 2011 Notes m m Wages and salaries 781 706 Social security costs 87 102 Pension and post-retirement costs 25 37 37 Share-based payment expense 29 5 9 Other payroll costs 17 38 927 892 Details of Directors remuneration are contained within the Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 74.
com 101 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 8 Foreign exchange on financial items Foreign exchange on financial items continues to be nil, as in previous periods, as foreign exchange differences arising on derivatives used in the management of the Groups cash are offset by foreign exchange differences on corresponding cash balances and intra-Group loans which do not form part of the lenders net investments in foreign operations.
9 Finance costs and finance income 2012 2011 Note m m Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 1 Total interest expense for financial instruments not at fair value through profit and loss 1 Credit facility fees 7 6 Amortisation of refinancing costs 1 1 Unwind of discount of provisions 24 1 1 Other 1 1 1 Exceptional finance costs 2 Finance costs 13 9 2 Bank interest receivable 3 4 Finance income 3 4 Net finance costs 10 5 1 Relates to the write-off of capitalised facility fees for the multi-currency credit facility with a term of five years from July 2008 which was cancelled on 30 March 2012.
2 Total interest income for financial instruments not at fair value through profit and loss.
10 Taxation i Analysis of income tax expense in the consolidated income statement Income tax expense recognised within the consolidated income statement is analysed as follows: 2012 2011 Note m m UK corporation tax Current income tax charge 4 1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1 4 Overseas tax Current income tax charge 55 43 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4 5 51 38 Total current income tax continuing operations 55 38 Deferred income tax Current deferred income tax credit 16 2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4 1 Total deferred income tax continuing operations 20 1 Taxation continuing operations 35 37 Taxation discontinued operations 11 2 Total income tax expense 33 37 102 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Restructuring costs and intangible asset impairment gave rise to an exceptional tax credit of 8 million in the current year 2011: 3 million exceptional tax credit resulting from restructuring costs and impairment of property, plant and equipment.
Total income tax expense is analysed as follows: Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 m m m m m m Analysed as: Taxation UK 4 4 Taxation overseas 31 2 29 37 37 35 2 33 37 37 ii Analysis of income tax in other comprehensive income Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income and recognised within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is as follows: 2012 2011 m m Current income tax related to components of other comprehensive income Current income tax credit on defined benefit schemes 14 14 Deferred income tax related to components of other comprehensive income Deferred income tax credit on defined benefit schemes 7 13 7 13 Total income tax credit related to components of other comprehensive income 21 13 iii Total tax reconciliation The total tax charge for the year of 33 million 2011: 37 million is lower than the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 26% 2011: 28%.
The key factors are explained below: 2012 2011 m m Profit loss before tax: Continuing operations 140 222 Discontinued operations 8 7 132 215 Tax at the UK corporate income tax rate of 26% 2011: 28% 34 60 Current year losses and other temporary differences not recognised 7 10 Tax effect of expenses that are not are deductible 3 6 Tax effect of utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised 3 27 Recognition of carried forward losses in current year 7 6 Differences in effective overseas tax rates 9 11 Adjustments in respect of prior years 10 5 Total income tax expense 33 37 iv Factors that may affect future tax charges The Group is subject to several factors which affect the tax charge including the levels and mix of profitability in different jurisdictions and the availability of tax losses.
com 103 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 10 Taxation continued v Franked investment income group litigation order In December 2006 Invensys filed a claim in the High Court for compensation arising from the payment of advance corporation tax and from satisfying liabilities to corporation tax arising from the receipt of dividends from non UK resident subsidiaries.
Invensys contends that these tax liabilities were incurred in breach of its EU community law rights.
Invensys is part of a Group Litigation Order with 24 other corporates from whom two test cases were selected to proceed to trial on a representative basis.
In December 2006 the European Court of Justice issued its guidance to the UK High Court on the compatibility of certain UK tax provisions within EU community law.
The test cases returned to the UK High Court for the full hearing in July 2008, with the UK High Court issuing its judgement on 27 November 2008.
The UK High Court judgement in November 2008 found in favour of the claimants on certain key aspects of the claim.
The judgement concluded, inter alia, that dividends received from EU subsidiaries should be, and should have been, effectively exempt from UK taxation.
It also concluded that certain dividends received from EU subsidiaries before 5 April 1999 and, in some limited circumstances, after 1993 from outside the EU, should have been treated as franked investment income, with the consequence that advance corporation tax need not have been paid.
The case was heard by the Court of Appeal in October 2009 and the judgement was handed down on 23 February 2010.
The Court of Appeal has determined that various questions should be referred back to the European Court of Justice for further clarification.
In addition, the Court determined that the claim should be restricted to six years and not cover claims dating back to 1973.
The principal test claimant has sought leave to appeal to the Supreme Court in the UK on the time limits and the Supreme Court heard the appeal in February 2012.
Several questions were separately referred back to the European Court of Justice for further clarification and a hearing took place in February 2012 at the European Court of Justice.
The courts decisions are awaited.
It is expected that the overall process may take several years to complete.
Given the complexity and uncertainty over the issues raised it is not possible to predict the amounts and final outcome with any reasonable certainty.
Therefore no contingent asset has been recognised in the Group Financial Statements.
11 Discontinued operations No operations have been discontinued in the year ended 31 March 2012 or 31 March 2011.
In the year ended 31 March 2012, there was a net charge of 6 million 2011: 7 million representing additional costs of 8 million 2011: 7 million incurred in respect of prior year disposals against which there was a 2 million tax credit 2011: nil.
104 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information 12 Earnings loss per share 2012 2011 Earnings loss per share pence Continuing operations Basic 12.8p 22.4p Diluted 12.8p 22.2p Before exceptional post-retirement benefits settlement loss, past service credit and curtailment gain: andexceptional finance costs Basic 13.4p 19.8p Diluted 13.4p 19.6p Discontinued operations Basic 0.7 p 0.9 p Diluted 0.8 p 0.9 p Total Group Basic 12.1p 21.5p Diluted 12.0p 21.3p Weighted average number of shares million Basic 812 808 Effect of dilution share options 2 8 Diluted 814 816 Earnings m Continuing operations Basic 104 181 Before exceptional post-retirement benefits settlement loss, past service credit and curtailment gain: andexceptional finance costs Operating profit 153 241 Exceptional settlement loss 3 Exceptional past service credit 20 Exceptional curtailment gain 1 Exceptional finance costs 2 Finance costs 13 9 Finance income 3 4 Other finance charges IAS 19 3 14 Operating profit less net finance costs 145 201 Taxation on operating profit less net finance costs 35 37 Non-controlling interests 1 4 Underlying 109 160 Discontinued operations Basic 6 7 Total Group Basic 98 174 The basic earnings loss per share for the year has been calculated using 812 million shares 2011: 808 million, being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as treasury shares which are treated as cancelled, and the profit after taxation and non-controlling interests for continuing operations, discontinued operations and total Group as shown above.
An additional earnings per share calculation for continuing operations has been included since the directors consider that this gives useful additional indications of underlying performance.
The diluted earnings loss per share has been calculated in accordance with IAS 33, Earnings per Share without reference to adjustments in respect of certain share options which are considered to be anti-dilutive.
com 105 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 April 2010 220 703 923 Additions 6 26 32 Disposals 5 67 72 Disposal of subsidiaries 3 6 9 Exchange adjustments 7 26 33 Classified as held for sale 13 13 At 31 March 2011 198 630 828 Additions 14 24 38 Disposals 3 61 64 Exchange adjustments 3 16 19 At 31 March 2012 206 577 783 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 1 April 2010 98 551 649 Charge for the year 5 36 41 Provision for impairment 4 4 Disposals 4 62 66 Disposal of subsidiaries 1 4 5 Exchange adjustments 3 21 24 Classified as held for sale 8 8 At 31 March 2011 91 500 591 Charge for the year 8 29 37 1 Provision for impairment 2 3 5 Disposals 3 60 63 Exchange adjustments 1 13 14 At 31 March 2012 97 459 556 Net book value At 31 March 2011 107 130 237 At 31 March 2012 109 118 227 Amounts included within property, plant and equipment in respect of assets held under finance leases are: Land and Plant and equipment Total buildings m m m Net book value At 31 March 2011 1 1 At 31 March 2012 1 Includes 1 million of a property impairment reversal.
There was 1 million 2011: nil depreciation charged in the year in respect of assets held under finance leases.
Leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance lease.
The title to plant and machinery with a carrying amount of nil 2011: 1 million has been pledged as security for liabilities.
Included in plant and equipment at 31 March 2012 was an amount of 12 million 2011: 6 million relating to expenditure for plant and equipment in the course of construction.
Impairment losses of 5 million in the year ended 31 March 2012 comprises 3 million for the write-down of buildings and equipment associated with a restructuring project undertaken in Invensys Controls and 2 million for the write-down of land and buildings in Corporate 2011: 4 million related to the write-down of buildings in Invensys Controls resulting from further changes in production.
The recoverable amounts of these assets were estimated based on their fair value less costs to sell.
Fairvalues were determined based on an assessment of the current market values of the assets and past experience of sales ofsimilar assets.
106 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information 14 Intangible assets goodwill m Cost At 1 April 2010 461 Additions 3 Exchange adjustments 18 At 31 March 2011 446 Exchange adjustments 3 At 31 March 2012 443 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 April 2010 160 Exchange adjustments 5 At 31 March 2011 155 Exchange adjustments 1 At 31 March 2012 154 Net book value At 31 March 2011 291 At 31 March 2012 289 An analysis of the carrying amount of goodwill by operating segment is set out below: 2012 2011 m m IMServ 33 33 Remaining Invensys Operations Management 240 242 Invensys Operations Management 273 275 Invensys Rail 15 15 Invensys Controls 1 1 Continuing operations 289 291 Goodwill acquired in business combinations has been allocated to four cash generating units CGUs.
IMServ is a part of Invensys Operations Management, but management continues to monitor IMServs goodwill separately.
These four CGUs represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
com 107 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 14 Intangible assets goodwill continued Annual impairment test The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
Goodwill is tested separately for each CGU or group of CGUs that represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is allocated and monitored for internal management purposes.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations using cash flow projections over a five-year period.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are: revenue volumes: revenue prices: operating costs: growth rate assumptions for years four and five of the cash flow projections: growth in perpetuity applied to calculate the terminal value: and discount rate.
Expected revenue volumes, revenue prices and operating costs are those included in the most recent financial annual operating plans and three-year strategic plans approved by the Board.
Annual operating plans are detailed financial forecasts covering the first year of the Groups three-year strategic plan.
The key assumptions underlying the forecasts for the CGUs over the period of the annual operating and strategic plans are order growth, taking account of the level of historic growth and expected future developments in markets and operations, and macroeconomic forecasts for the territories and industries in which theyoperate.
Cash flows for years four and five are projected at a growth rate appropriate for the relevant CGUs.
These growth rates take into consideration forecast GDP growth rates for the countries of operation, expected market growth rates for those regions and the levels of growth achieved historically by the CGUs and forecast in the periods covered by the three-year strategic plan.
Lower growth rates are applied in perpetuity to calculate the terminal values of the CGUs.
These rates do not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
A long-term discount rate is derived for the CGUs by adjusting the Groups weighted average cost of capital to reflect the relative level of risk associated with the cash flow projections.
The discount rate is a pre-tax rate.
These discount rates and growth rates are as follows: Discount Growth Discount Growth 1 1 rate rate rate rate 2012 2012 2011 2011 % % % % Invensys Operations Management IMServ 11.07 2.4 11.04 2.5 Remaining Invensys Operations Management 12.20 3.3 12.50 3.0 Invensys Rail 9.11 2.9 10.66 2.7 Invensys Controls 12.32 3.0 13.10 2.7 1 In perpetuity.
In all cases the recoverable amounts of these CGUs were in excess of their carrying values and no impairment arose in the year 2011: nil.
Sensitivity to change in assumptions With respect to the assessment of value in use of all CGUs, except IMServ, management believes that no reasonable change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of those CGUs to exceed its recoverable amount.
With respect to IMServ the details are tabulated below: Amount by which the CGUs recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount 1.2m Key assumption Terminal growth rate Discount rate Value of key assumption 2.4% 11.1% Amount by which the value assigned to the key assumption must change in order for the CGUs recoverable amount to be equal to its carrying amount % points 0.2% 0.1% The assumptions for the terminal growth rate would change if the long term GDP for market growth differ from the actual growth.
The discount rate would change if there is a change to the Groups weighted cost of capital caused by a change in market rates or the risk profile of the Group.
108 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information 15 Intangible assets other Computer Patents, Development software trademarks costs costs and licences Total Note m m m m Cost At 1 April 2010 215 41 1 257 Additions 55 6 61 Additions acquired through business combinations 32 3 3 Disposals 1 1 Exchange adjustments 7 2 9 At 31 March 2011 266 44 1 311 Additions 44 7 51 Disposals 1 3 1 5 Exchange adjustments 4 3 1 At 31 March 2012 305 51 1 357 Accumulated amortisation At 1 April 2010 92 32 124 Charge for the year 21 5 26 1 Impairment losses for the year 6 6 Disposals 1 1 Exchange adjustments 3 2 1 4 At 31 March 2011 116 34 1 151 Charge for the year 26 5 31 1 Impairment losses for the year 10 10 Disposals 1 3 4 Exchange adjustments 1 2 1 At 31 March 2012 150 38 1 189 Net book value At 31 March 2011 150 10 160 At 31 March 2012 155 13 168 1 Impairment losses of 10 million in 2012 2011: 6 million relate to write-off of development projects in Invensys Rail.
16 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities The following are the major deferred income tax assets liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior year: Pension and other retirement PPE Tax benefit intangibles losses obligations Other Total m m m m m At 1 April 2010 43 52 2 8 15 Credit charge to income statement 5 2 6 1 Transfers 1 1 Credit to other comprehensive income 13 13 Acquisition of subsidiary 1 1 Exchange differences 1 3 1 1 At 31 March 2011 37 51 12 2 28 Credit to income statement 3 10 3 4 20 Credit to other comprehensive income 7 7 Exchange differences 1 1 At 31 March 2012 33 61 22 5 55 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 109 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 16 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities continued Certain deferred income tax assets and liabilities have been offset where a legal right of offset exists.
The following is the analysis of the deferred income tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2012 2011 m m Deferred income tax assets 70 46 Deferred income tax liabilities 15 18 55 28 As a result of changes to tax legislation, dividends received from subsidiaries on or after 1 July 2009 are largely exempt from UK tax but may be subject to dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate.
The gross temporary differences of those overseas subsidiaries affected by such potential taxes is 34 million 2011: 13 million.
No deferred income tax liability is recognised on these temporary differences as the Group is able to control the timing of reversal and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
As at 31 March 2012 the Group had income tax losses, capital losses, pension and other retirement benefit obligations and other deductible temporary differences carried forward in respect of which no deferred income tax assets were recognised amounting to 8,196 million 2011: 8,098 million.
The Groups pension, other retirement obligations and other deductible temporary differences have no expiry date restrictions.
The expiry date of income tax losses and capital losses carried forward is dependent upon the tax law of the various territories in which the losses arose.
A summary of expiry dates for losses in respect of which these restrictions apply is set out below: Gross losses expiring within Gross losses Tax value four years m m m Income tax losses Americas 453 158 Europe 875 221 8 Asia Pacific 49 18 32 1,377 397 40 1 Capital losses 6,194 1,493 5 Pension, other retirement obligations and other deductible temporary differences 625 191 8,196 2,081 45 1 Of the total capital losses in the Group, 6 billion are carried forward in the UK.
The standard rate of UK corporation tax has reduced to 24% from 1 April 2012 and is expected to continue to fall by 1% each year to 22% in 2014.
The impact of the rate change to 22% would reduce the total unrecognised deferred income tax assets by 130 million.
110 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information 17 Inventories 2012 2011 m m Raw materials and consumables 85 83 Work in progress 27 30 Finished goods 33 42 145 155 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 2012 2011 m m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 939 811 Including: Write-down of inventories to net realisable value 1 2 18 Amounts due from to contract customers 2012 2011 m m Amounts due from contract customers: Amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months 273 233 Amounts expected to be recovered after more than 12 months 11 284 233 Amounts due to contract customers: Amounts expected to be settled within 12 months 205 203 Amounts expected to be settled after more than 12 months 23 11 228 214 Net amounts due from contract customers 56 19 Analysed as: Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 3,111 2,790 Less: progress billings 3,055 2,771 Contracts in progress at balance sheet date 56 19 Revenue from construction contracts 1,233 1,193 At 31 March 2012, retentions held by customers for contract work amounted to 37 million 2011: 30 million and advances received from customers for contract work amounted to 8 million 2011: 11 million.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of amounts due from to contract customers is a reasonable approximation oftheir fair value.
com 111 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19 Trade and other receivables 2012 2011 Note m m Non-current Other receivables 26 22 26 22 Current Trade receivables 398 431 Prepayments and accrued income 32 25 Other receivables 70 70 500 526 Total trade and other receivables 526 548 Classification to financial assets Financial assets: loans and receivables 22 i 463 497 Non-financial assets 63 51 526 548 Trade receivables are recorded net of an allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods.
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 46 days.
The allowance that has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods is 11 million 2011: 12 million.
This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience and future recoverability.
The net impairment loss recognised in the year as a result of irrecoverable receivables balances is nil 2011: nil.
Trade and other receivables are predominantly non-interest bearing.
Other receivables include amounts owed by associated undertakings, interest receivable, refundable deposits, refunds due in respect of VAT, sales and payroll taxes, commissions earned and insurance recoveries.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables were as follows: 2012 2011 m m At 1 April 12 13 Charged in year 2 3 Released in year 2 3 Utilised in year 1 1 At 31 March 11 12 As at 31 March, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows: 2012 2011 m m Neither past due nor impaired 317 350 Past due but not impaired past due by: 1 to 30 days 34 36 31 to 60 days 19 16 61 to 90 days 5 8 91 to 120 days 3 3 121 days and over 20 18 398 431 Generally the Group does not hold any collateral as security against trade receivables that are impaired or past due but not impaired.
The Group performs credit verification procedures on all customers.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
Further information on the Groups approach to credit risk in relation to trade and other receivables is given in Note 22.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of current and non-current trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
112 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information 20 Cash and cash equivalents 2012 2011 m m Cash at banks and in hand 154 149 Short-term deposits 109 200 Cash and cash equivalents 263 349 Cash and cash equivalents attract interest based on relevant national LIBID equivalents.
Short-term deposits have an average maturity of 15 days 2011: 10 days.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is not materially different from their book value.
For information on the exposure of the Groups cash and cash equivalents balances to credit risk refer to Note 22.
Restricted cash and short-term deposits The Group has operations in a number of territories including China, Brazil and India which place restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to lend money to other Group entities outside those territories.
However, distributions to the Group are permitted from audited reserves.
At 31 March 2012 restricted cash and cash equivalents held in such territories totalled 58 million 2011:58 million.
Cash and cash equivalents include 29 million 2011: 31 million of collateral held in the ordinary course of business to provide security for local bonding facilities.
21 Borrowings i Bank and other loans 2012 2011 m m On demand or within one year 1 1 Borrowings of 1 million 2011: 1 million relates to finance leases.
Finance leases are secured by charges over the assets to which they relate.
At 31 March 2012 nil of such loans were classified as non-current liabilities 2011: nil.
Details of the Groups other borrowings arrangements are set out below.
ii Loan repayment dates, interest rates and principal terms Bank, other loans and borrowings, bond and credit facilities outstanding at 31 March 2012: Facility Borrowings 2012 Interest 2012 Notes Maturity m rate m LIBOR Committed revolving credit facility 1,2, 3,4 March 2017 250 1.25% Facility Drawings 2012 2012 Notes Maturity m Fees m Committed multi-currency bonding and guarantee facility 3,4, 5 March 2017 350 1.25% 253 1 Interest is currently charged at LIBOR plus 1.25% based on balance sheet leverage.
2 Utilisation fees are charged based on the proportion of the revolving credit facility drawn as loans.
3 This facility contains covenants whereby if total borrowings to EBITDA are greater then 2.5:1 then restrictions on acquisitions and dividends apply current borrowings to EBITDA is 0.005:1.
4 Interest is currently charged on the undrawn portion at a rate of 0.5% based on balance sheet leverage.
5 Fees are currently charged at 1.25% based on balance sheet leverage.
Bank, other loans and borrowings, bond and credit facilities outstanding at 31 March 2011: Facility Drawings 2011 Interest 2011 Notes Maturity m rate m Committed revolving credit facilities LIBOR Multi-currency credit facility 1 July 2013 400 1.50% 254 LIBOR Bilateral credit facility July 2013 25 1.50% 425 254 1 At 31 March 2011, drawings of 254 million related to the provision of bonds and guarantees.
com 113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 21 Borrowings continued On 30 March 2012 the 400 million multi-currency credit facility, maturing in July 2013, which could be used for cash or guarantees was cancelled.
This was replaced by two new five-year bank facilities totalling 600 million, comprising a 250million revolving credit facility and a 350 million multi-currency bonding and guarantee facility.
On 30 March 2012 the 25 million bilateral credit facility, maturing in July 2013, was also cancelled.
Uncommitted bond and guarantee facilities In addition, at 31 March 2012, the Group had bonds and guarantees totalling 227 million 2011: 219 million issued under uncommitted facilities.
Of these, 29 million 2011: 31 million are supported by cash collateral and a further 14 million 2011: 17 million are supported by guarantees issued under the Groups committed syndicated loan facility.
22 Financial risk management and financial instruments The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank facilities for cash advances, guarantees, leases, cash and cash equivalents, other financial assets, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables.
The Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily forward currency contracts.
This note explains the nature and extent of the risks arising from financial instruments: how those risks arise: the objectives, policies and processes used by the Group for managing the risks: and the methods used to measure the risks.
Overview of treasury policy The Group manages its exposure to risks arising from its use of financial instruments by the application of its treasury policy.
The Groups treasury policy is approved by the Board and seeks to ensure that: appropriate financial resources are available for the maintenance and development of the Groups divisions: the financial risk of currency, interest rate and counterparty credit exposure is understood, measured and managed appropriately: and the Treasury department operates as a cost centre and that no speculative transactions are undertaken.
There have been no significant changes in the Groups exposures to risk, and its approach to managing those exposures, in the year ended 31 March 2012.
The Groups policy in respect of the major areas of treasury management is set out below.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations as they fall due.
Operating within the strict controls of the Groups treasury policy, the Treasury department manages this risk, ensuring that sufficient funding and liquidity is available to meet the expected needs of the Group together with a prudent level of headroom to allow for cash flow and bank guarantee variability.
In addition to the free cash flow of the Group, Invensys adopts a flexible approach to liquidity management using a mixture of long-term debt facilities and short-term cash deposits.
Funding is provided by a 250 million bank facility which matures in March 2017, as described in Note 21 ii.
The undrawn level of this facility together with the Groups cash balances, as set out in Note 20, are the key measures of the Groups liquidity.
Bank guarantees issued by the Group as set out in Note 21 ii represent a potential liquidity requirement.
This risk is mitigated by issuing guarantees under the committed syndicated loan facility and holding sufficient liquidity to cover the forecast cash requirements of guarantees issued under uncommitted facilities.
Liquidity management is centralised through cash pooling arrangements and inter-company funding structures, under the control of the Treasury department.
In countries where cash pooling arrangements cannot be implemented, cash balances are monitored to ensure that surplus amounts are repatriated and deficits adequately funded.
The Treasury department maintains sufficient back-up liquidity in the form of available cash balances and committed facilities.
Standard business practices include the strict application of credit control procedures to ensure the collection of cash from customers in accordance with agreed credit periods and terms that result in positive cash flows over the life of a construction or long-term service provision contract whenever possible.
114 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information The following table summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011 based on contractual undiscounted payments: Up to 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years 5 years Total 31 March 2012 m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities: Finance leases 1 1 Provisions 6 4 2 2 1 3 18 Trade and other payables 495 8 3 506 Unrecognised liabilities: Operating lease commitments 49 36 25 19 16 73 218 551 48 27 21 17 79 743 Derivative financial liabilities: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 3 3 Total financial liabilities 554 48 27 21 17 79 746 Up to 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years 5 years Total 31 March 2011 m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities: Finance leases 1 1 Provisions 5 5 3 1 1 10 25 Trade and other payables 509 6 1 516 Unrecognised liabilities: Operating lease commitments 51 36 28 22 17 84 238 566 47 31 23 18 95 780 Derivative financial liabilities: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 4 4 Total financial liabilities 570 47 31 23 18 95 784 Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to risk arising from the effect of changes in floating interest rates on the level of interest it receives on its cash deposits, and pays interest on its facility drawings.
As at 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011, Invensys had no significant borrowings.
The interest rate profiles of the Groups cash and cash equivalents and shortand long-term borrowings are set out in Notes 20 and 21 respectively.
All other financial assets and liabilities of the Group are non-interest bearing and a statement has been made to that effect in the relevant balance sheet notes.
com 115 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, on the Groups profit before tax through the impact on floating-rate cash and borrowings.
There is no impact on the Groups equity.
The same assumptions have been used for the years ended 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011.
Effect on profit Effect on profit before tax: before tax: increase increase decrease decrease Increase 2012 2011 decrease m m Sterling 1% 0.5 1.2 Euro 1% 0.5 0.6 US dollar 1% 0.3 0.5 Sterling 1% 0.5 1.2 Euro 1% 0.5 0.6 US dollar 1% 0.3 0.5 Currency risk Transaction exposure Currency transaction exposure arises when business units face revenues or costs in a currency other than their own.
The incidence ofthis risk varies across the Group and is subject to change.
However, the majority of revenues and costs will usually be in the functional currency of the business unit undertaking the transaction.
Where this is not the case and the exposure is significant, it is the Groups policy for business units to hedge their exposures.
The Group predominantly uses forward currency contracts to manage transaction exposure.
The Group is also subject to exchange risk when making bids, particularly on major contracts, where movements against the specific exchange rate assumed within a bid would lead to a change in the anticipated margin on the contract should the bid be successful.
This exposure to contract risk is hedged if significant.
Translation exposure The majority of the Groups operating capital is employed in overseas locations and is denominated in foreign currencies, particularly US dollars.
As a consequence, changes in exchange rates affect both net asset values and reported results.
This risk is not hedged directly, but to the extent that the Group has debt, any that is held in foreign currency would reduce the level of net assets exposed to currency fluctuations.
The interest expense related to such debt would also reduce the level of earnings exposed to exchange rate movements.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk is as follows: Other Other US dollar Euro excl Sterling US dollar Euro excl Sterling 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 At 31 March m m m m m m Net assets of non-Sterling functional currency entities 261 134 212 221 107 200 Net unhedged monetary assets not held in entities functional currencies 44 21 22 56 16 41 Gross exposure 305 155 234 277 123 159 The significant exchange rates that applied during the year are set out in Note 37.
116 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Currency risk sensitivity analysis The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar and euro exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, on: the Groups profit before tax due to changes in the sterling value of financial instruments not in hedging relationships assuming year end levels of such items are held constant : and the Groups equity due to changes in the sterling value of financial instruments in hedging relationships.
Effect on profit Effect on Effect on profit Effect on before tax: equity: before tax: equity: Strengthening increase increase increase increase weakening decrease decrease decrease decrease US dollar and 2012 2012 2011 2011 Euro rate m m m m Euro 5% 1 7 2 6 US dollar 5% 2 14 3 12 Euro -5% 1 6 2 5 US dollar -5% 2 12 3 11 Credit risk The Group is exposed to risk if a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Such a risk arises principally in relation to receivables due from customers and cash deposited with banks or other financial institutions.
The Group monitors the identity of the counterparties with whom it deposits cash and transacts other financial instruments so as to control exposure to any territory or institution.
As far as it is both feasible and practical to do so, cash is held centrally by the Treasury department.
Risk is assessed using ratings from major credit rating agencies.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by their respective carrying values as at the balance sheet date see Note 22 i on page 119. Credit risks arising from acting as guarantor are disclosed in Note 30.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
Details of collateral held as security and other credit enhancements in respect of receivables are given in Note 19.
Based on past experience, the directors believe that there is no significant credit risk associated with receivables that are neither past due nor impaired.
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties, and performs credit verification procedures on all major customers.
Receivable balances, including uninvoiced receivables reported as amounts due from contract customers, are monitored on an ongoing basis.
The Group has not renegotiated the terms of any significant financial assets such that those assets would have been past due or impaired had the terms not been renegotiated.
Capital management Capital is managed under the Groups treasury policy.
The policy sets out a strategy for the long-term funding of the Group, with the objective of ensuring the Group has access to appropriate sources of funding to support its businesses, as and when required.
Key aspects of the policy are: The Groups debt capacity is determined as part of the annual strategic review process: Appropriate contingency levels are maintained to cover unforeseen events: Financing is obtained from multiple sources, for example capital markets, bank debt and cash resources: Funds are raised from various geographical locations: The Group aims to maintain a consistent credit rating: The Group aims to maintain strong relationships with its banks and rating agencies: Interest cover and other financial ratios principally the ratio of EBITDA to total borrowings and net finance costs are maintained at appropriate levels, and compliance with covenant arrangements is tested semi-annually.
com 117 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Funding is arranged centrally and managed by the Treasury department.
The Treasury department can make use of a number ofapproved funding instruments, including bilateral bank facilities, syndicated bank facilities, public bonds or loan notes, private placements and commercial paper programmes.
New long-term funding requires approval under the Groups Board Delegated Authority Levels, with facilities in excess of 100 million requiring Board approval.
The main credit facility in place at 31 March 2012 provides liquidity for the Group until March 2017 and supports the current strategy of the Group.
This facility, including the related covenant arrangements, is described further in Note 21 ii.
Investigations are continually undertaken to review financing requirements and the availability of funding to meet these.
Inmaking those considerations the Board takes into account the cost of any refinancing compared to the benefits, which includeterms and conditions, the cost of funding and repayment schedules.
There were no significant changes in the Groups approach to capital management during the years ended 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011.
The Groups capital structure is as follows: 2012 2011 At 31 March Notes m m Capital employed 314 201 Cash and cash equivalents 20 263 349 Borrowings 21 1 1 Net cash 262 348 Total capital equals total equity 576 549 Comprising: Equity holders of parent 556 514 Non-controlling interests 20 35 576 549 Net cash was 262 million 2011: 348 million, with no amounts held on deposit with a maturity of more than three months 2011: nil.
i Classification and fair values of financial assets and liabilities The following table sets out the classification, carrying amounts and fair values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities.
Thefair value is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties.
Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates translated at year end exchange rates.
Provisions have been included where there is acontractual obligation to settle in cash.
118 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information The fair value of financial assets and liabilities at 31 March was: Book value Fair value Book value Fair value 2012 2012 2011 2011 Notes m m m m Financial assets Loans and receivables: Trade and other receivables 19 463 463 497 497 Cash and cash equivalents 20 263 263 349 349 Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange options, swaps and forwards 22 ii 3 3 2 2 729 729 848 848 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost: Finance leases 30 1 1 1 1 Provisions 24 16 16 23 23 Trade and other payables 26 506 506 516 516 Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange options, swaps and forwards 22 ii 3 3 4 4 526 526 544 544 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in acurrent transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: Loans and receivables: trade and other receivables: cash and cash equivalents: provisions and trade and other payables: thedirectors consider that the carrying amount of these financial assets and liabilities approximates to their fair value.
Shortand long-term bank and other loans: finance leases: fair values are evaluated based on interest rates.
Derivative financial instruments: foreign exchange swaps and forwards: fair values are derived using forward pricing and swap models.
The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties and foreign exchange spot and forward rates.
The Group has, in the ordinary course of business, provided indemnities to banks in respect of performance guarantees issuedto customers.
The fair value of such indemnities is not material as the likelihood of any liability arising from them is considered remote.
At 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011, the Group had no arrangements in place to guarantee borrowings by third parties.
Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At 31 March 2012: m m m m Financial assets at fair value Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 3 3 3 3 Financial liabilities at fair value Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 3 3 3 3 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 119 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At 31 March 2011: m m m m Financial assets at fair value Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 2 2 2 2 Financial liabilities at fair value Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 4 4 4 4 During the years ended 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011, there were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 fair value measurements, and no financial instruments requiring Level 3 fair value measurements were held.
ii Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivatives to hedge currency transaction exposure, currency translation exposure and contract pricing exposure.
A summary of derivative financial instruments, all of which related to foreign exchange swaps and forwards, is as follows: Fair value Fair value 2012 2011 m m Derivative assets 3 2 Derivative liabilities 3 4 2 Foreign exchange swaps and forwards used to hedge transaction exposure The Group uses foreign exchange swaps and forwards to hedge currency exposure arising from sales and purchases made bythe Groups business units in currencies other than their own functional currency.
The turnover i. e. notional principal of suchderivatives which typically have a term of less than one year, excluding swaps, in the year ended 31 March 2012 was 1,165million 2011: 506 million.
All of these instruments are designated and effective as cash flow hedges.
8 million relating to hedged cash flows that have not yet impacted the income statement have been deferred and recognised in equity at 31 March 2012 2011: 8 million.
nil 2011: nil has been transferred to the income statement during the year ended 31 March 2012 in respect of contracts which matured.
Foreign exchange swaps and forwards used to hedge translation exposure The Group uses foreign exchange swaps and forwards to match the currency profile of its net debt to that of its net assets, revenue and earnings, and ensures that it has sufficient cash available to meet its payment obligations by currency as they fall due.
The fair value of such derivatives which typically have a term of less than one year is nil 2011: nil.
The currency assets and liabilities created by such derivatives at 31 March were: Net assets Net assets Assets Liabilities liabilities Assets Liabilities liabilities 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 m m m m m m Sterling 3 84 81 4 81 77 Euro 23 23 35 5 30 US dollar 35 35 30 30 Japanese yen 12 12 11 11 Other 12 3 9 4 4 85 87 2 84 86 2 120 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Changes in the fair value of these derivatives resulted in a gain of nil in the year ended 31 March 2012 2011: 1 million.
Theseare taken directly to foreign exchange in the income statement, see Note 8. iii Ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement No amounts were recognised in the income statement relating to the ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges 2011: nil.
23 Assets held for sale Assets held for sale relate to surplus freehold properties that are vacant, no longer used for operational purposes and are being actively marketed for sale.
These properties are expected to be sold within a year of the date of their classification as held for sale and are included in Corporate in the operating segment analysis in Note 4.
The major classes of assets classified as held for sale as at 31 March are: 2012 2011 m m Current assets Surplus property portfolio 10 11 10 11 24 Provisions Onerous Warranties Restructuring Environmental contracts Other Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2011 17 13 46 23 74 173 Charged in year 6 32 6 1 11 56 Released in year 1 2 2 5 Utilised in year 10 27 8 6 35 86 Unwind of discount of provisions 1 1 At 31 March 2012 13 17 45 16 48 139 2012 2011 Note m m Analysed as: Current liabilities 65 85 Non-current liabilities 74 88 139 173 Classification to financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost 22 i 16 23 Non-financial liabilities 123 150 139 173 Warranties are provided for in the normal course of business based on an assessment of future claims with reference to past claims.
Such costs are generally incurred over the product life cycle.
The actual amount of costs that will be incurred will depend upon the level and nature of future claims.
Restructuring provisions cover committed costs, the majority of which are expected to be incurred within one year of the balance sheet date.
Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up is probable and the amount can be determined reliably.
This generally coincides with a commitment to a formal plan or, if earlier, on divestment or closure of inactive sites.
These costs are expected to be incurred over the next 30 years.
com 121 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 24 Provisions continued Provisions for onerous contracts relate to lease rentals in respect of vacant property and the costs of other onerous contracts.
An onerous contract is a contract in which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
The provisions represent the best estimate of the unavoidable costs remaining under the current contractual terms of the contracts.
These liabilities are expected to crystallise largely within the next 15 years.
Other provisions principally relate to legal claims, claims under workers compensation or similar employee disability benefit schemes and other miscellaneous obligations.
These liabilities are expected to crystallise largely within the next ten years.
The costs are estimated based on the expected outcome of the legal claim or obligation.
The amount of the final liability and timing of payment, if any, is dependent upon the final outcome of any litigation or other negotiation involved.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of provisions equates to their fair value.
25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits i Defined contribution schemes The Group operates 30 defined contribution schemes.
Pension costs in respect of defined contribution schemes  payable in the year and amounted to 19 million 2011: 18 million.
At 31 March 2012, there werenil 2011:1 million of outstanding contributions included in payables.
ii Defined benefit schemes general The Group operates 53 funded and unfunded defined benefit pension and post-retirement schemes.
Contributions to the defined benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of the independent actuary of the relevant scheme.
There are two main funded defined benefit schemes in the UK and US, together with other smaller schemes in the restof the world.
The Invensys Pension Scheme UK is final salary in nature.
The Invensys Pension Plan US ceased to be afinal salary scheme following its closure to future accrual and the freezing of benefits for existing members with effect from 1November 2009.
The principal Group scheme covering the majority of UK employees is the Invensys Pension Scheme.
The Invensys Pension Scheme UK is a funded defined benefit scheme.
The assets of this scheme are held separately from those of the Group.
These assets are managed by trustees, who are required to act in the best interests of the schemes beneficiaries.
The Trustee Board is made up of nine directors, four nominated by the Company and five by the members.
The Company is responsible for appointing the Chairman from the Board.
The last full actuarial valuation of the scheme for funding purposes was carried out with a valuation date of 31 March 2011 by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method for valuing the liabilities.
This latest valuation has not changed the schemes funding plan for the next three years.
The assumptions that had the most effect on the results of this valuation for funding purposes are those relating to the discount rate and inflation on scheme liabilities and mortality assumptions.
There are numerous schemes operated by overseas subsidiaries.
Of these the largest, Invensys Pension Plan US, is assessed annually by an actuary, and the other overseas defined benefit schemes are normally assessed periodically by independent actuaries in accordance with local practice.
The Group also operates a number of non-pension post-retirement benefit plans, the majority of which relate to the provision of medical benefits to retired former employees of the Groups subsidiaries in the US.
These schemes are generally unfunded.
The last full valuations of all schemes on an IAS 19 basis have been updated to 31 March 2012 to reflect market conditions and material events in the plans.
iii Defined benefit schemes major assumptions The major assumptions made when valuing the liabilities of funded and unfunded schemes under IAS 19 are as follows: As at 31 March 2012 the major financial assumptions are: Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other % % % % Major assumptions Rates of increase in salaries 4.75 n a 4.30 3.67 1 Rate of increase to pensions in payment 3.60 n a 2.47 2.58 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 4.70 4.55 4.61 4.28 2 Inflation rate 3.50 n a 3.11 2.55 1 The pension increase assumption disclosed for the Invensys Pension Scheme UK is in line with RPI, subject to a floor of 3.0% and a ceiling of 5.0%.
2 The inflation rate for the UK schemes is based on RPI.
An additional inflation rate assumption for CPI is required for the Invensys Pension Scheme UK, one Other Funded scheme and one Other Unfunded scheme to reflect the UK Governments change of the inflation measure used to determine minimum pension increases which impacts onsome of the pension increases within these schemes.
This has been assessed as 2.50% for the Invensys Pension Scheme UK, 2.60% reflecting a longer duration for the Other Funded scheme and 2.50% for the Other Unfunded scheme.
122 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information As at 31 March 2011 the major financial assumptions were: Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other % % % % Major assumptions Rates of increase in salaries 4.95 n a 4.19 3.09 1 Rate of increase to pensions in payment 3.80 n a 2.64 2.63 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 5.30 5.65 5.27 5.15 2 Inflation rate 3.70 n a 3.16 2.60 1 The pension increase assumption disclosed for the Invensys Pension Scheme UK is in line with RPI, subject to a floor of 3.0% and a ceiling of 5.0%.
An additional inflation rate assumption for CPI is required for the Invensys Pension Scheme UK and for one Other Funded scheme and one Other Unfunded scheme to reflect the UK Governments change of the inflation measure used to determine minimum pension increases which impacts on some of the pension increases within these schemes.
This has been assessed as 2.95% for the Invensys Pension Scheme UK and 2.95% for the Other Funded plan.
Invensys Pension Scheme UK : Deferred pension increases In order to determine some minimum pension increases, the Consumer Price Index CPI is used as the inflation measure.
Themain inflation rate remains the Retail Prices Index RPI which is the driver for pension increases in payment.
This is in line with changes made by the UK Government to statutory index-linked features of retirement benefits.
As the scheme was not obligated to increase pensions in line with RPI, the change to using CPI was considered to be a change in the increase assumption, and gave rise to an actuarial gain in accordance with IAS 19.
In the main, the change to CPI affected only deferred pensions and had limited impact on pensions already in payment.
The demographic assumptions which were applied for the main schemes are as follows: Invensys Pension Scheme UK Standard SAPS actuarial mortality tables S1PA were adopted.
Based on Scheme experience, the probability of death at each age was multiplied by 103% for males and 113% for females.
Future improvements in life expectancy have been allowed for in line with the standard CMI model projections subject to a long term trend of 1.00% for males and females.
These mortality tables are consistent with those agreed by the Trustees for the 31 March 2011 formal valuation of the Scheme.
By way of illustration the impact of the application of these mortality tables on the expected longevity of pensioners is shown below: Years Retiring today at age 65: Male 22.0 Female 23.3 Retiring in 20 years at age 65: Male 23.3 Female 24.9 Invensys Pension Plan US The mortality table adopted was the RP 2000 Table for combined employee annuitants, projected to 2015 using projection scale AA.
com 123 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued Sensitivities Invensys Pension Scheme UK and Invensys Pension Plan US The two largest schemes within the Group are the Invensys Pension Scheme UK representing 75% of gross liabilities of all defined benefit schemes and the Invensys Pension Plan US 18%.
The principal sensitivities, with all other variables held constant, for these two schemes are illustrated below: Invensys Pension Scheme UK Invensys Pension Plan US Defined Defined benefit Net benefit Net 1 1 obligation Assets effect obligation Assets effect m m m m m m Total defined benefit obligation scheme assets Note 25 v 4,326 4,233 93 1,070 972 98 A 0.1% increase in the assumed inflation rate 2 would have the following effect : Increase in defined benefit obligation increase in scheme assets 50 30 20 A 0.1% decrease in the assumed interest rate 3 would have the following effect : Increase in defined benefit obligation increase in scheme assets 61 49 12 11 9 2 A one year increase to the pensioners lives wouldhave the following effect: Increase in defined benefit obligation 208 208 29 29 Applying an additional 0.25% to the improvement in mortality would have the following effect: 4 Increase in defined benefit obligation 52 52 n a n a n a 1 The movement of assets in this table shows the estimated impact on asset values arising from a change of market conditions consistent with the change in discount rate and inflation assumptions shown.
2 This sensitivity assumes that a 0.1% increase in future inflation expectations result in a 0.1% increase in all inflation-related pension increase assumptions.
As a result of the upper and lower limits on the majority of inflation related pension increases, a given change in the inflation assumption may result in a smaller change in pension increase assumptions and hence smaller change in the liabilities particularly where such a change in inflation is large.
3 This illustrates the sensitivity of assets and liabilities to a 0.1% change in all bond yields.
The discount rate used to determine the liabilities is based on AA corporate bond yields.
4 This is a slightly different sensitivity to last year, where there was a 0.25% increase in the underpin to mortality improvements.
124 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information iv Defined benefit schemes income and expenses The amounts that have been recognised in the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2012 are set out below: Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m m Analysis of amounts charged to the consolidated incomestatement: Current service cost 9 6 3 18 Settlements 3 3 Total charge to operating profit 9 3 6 3 21 Expected return on plan assets 215 53 13 281 Interest on plan liabilities 213 52 14 5 284 Other finance credit charge IAS 19 2 1 1 5 3 Analysis of amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 214 107 1 320 Experience gains losses arising on the scheme liabilities 19 1 6 2 24 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the plan liabilities 237 111 16 11 375 Actuarial loss 4 3 11 13 31 Movement in irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus Note 25 vii 4 4 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 125 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The amounts that were recognised in the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2011 are set out below: Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m m Analysis of amounts charged credited to the consolidated income statement: Current service cost continuing operations 10 7 2 19 Past service credit 20 20 Curtailments 1 1 Total charge credit to operating profit 10 6 18 2 Expected return on plan assets 216 51 12 279 Interest on plan liabilities 217 55 15 6 293 Other finance charges IAS 19 1 4 3 6 14 Analysis of amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 49 60 6 115 Experience losses gains arising on the scheme liabilities 15 12 4 3 20 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the 1 plan liabilities 46 30 14 3 65 Actuarial loss gain 12 18 24 30 Movement in irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus 1 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the plan liabilities includes a credit of 73 million relating to the Invensys Pension Scheme UK, and 15 million relating to one Other Funded scheme arising from the reduction in scheme liabilities as a result of the change to using CPI instead of RPI to determine minimum pension increases, as explained in Note 25 iii.
The amounts charged credited to operating profit were charged credited to the following lines in the consolidated income statement: 2012 2011 m m Cost of sales 12 12 Administrative costs 6 7 Other exceptional items 3 21 Total net charge credit to operating profit 21 2 126 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information v Defined benefit schemes changes in present value of defined benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for the year ended 31 March 2012 were as follows: Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m m Opening present value of defined benefit obligation 4,118 959 262 122 5,461 Current service cost 9 6 3 18 Contributions by employees 1 1 Benefit payments 233 60 15 9 317 Interest on plan liabilities 213 52 14 5 284 Actuarial losses 218 110 10 13 351 Settlements 3 3 Exchange adjustments 6 3 3 Closing present value of defined benefit obligation 4,326 1,070 274 131 5,801 Changes in the fair value of plan assets for the year ended 31 March 2012 were as follows: Funded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m Opening fair value of plan assets 3,988 834 202 5,024 Expected return on plan assets 215 53 13 281 Contributions by employer 48 32 8 88 Contributions by employees 1 1 Benefit payments 233 60 15 308 Actuarial gains losses 214 107 1 320 Exchange adjustments 6 3 3 Closing fair value of plan assets 4,233 972 204 5,409 Actual return on plan assets 429 160 12 601 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 127 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for the year ended 31 March 2011 were as follows: Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m m Opening present value of defined benefit obligation 4,056 982 283 149 5,470 Current service cost 10 7 2 19 Past service credit 20 20 Contributions by employees 1 1 Benefit payments 227 60 12 10 309 Interest on plan liabilities 217 55 15 6 293 Net liabilities transferred on disposal 1 1 Actuarial losses gains 61 42 18 85 1 Transfers from to other schemes 9 9 Curtailments 1 1 Exchange adjustments 69 3 4 76 Closing present value of defined benefit obligation 4,118 959 262 122 5,461 Changes in the fair value of plan assets for the year ended 31 March 2011 were as follows: Funded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m Opening fair value of plan assets 3,902 820 197 4,919 Expected return on plan assets 216 51 12 279 Contributions by employer 47 13 10 70 Contributions by employees 1 1 Benefit payments 227 60 12 299 Actuarial gains 49 60 6 115 1 Transfers to from other schemes 9 9 Exchange adjustments 59 2 61 Closing fair value of plan assets 3,988 834 202 5,024 Actual return on plan assets 265 111 18 394 1 During the year ended 31 March 2011, the assets and liabilities of the Retirement Plan for the Bargaining Employees of Safetran were transferred to a new section of the Invensys Pension Plan US.
128 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information vi Defined benefit schemes reconciliation of balance sheet amounts Reconciliation of assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2012: Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 4,326 1,070 274 131 5,801 Fair value of plan assets 4,233 972 204 5,409 Deficit in the plan 93 98 70 131 392 Irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus Note25 vii 34 34 Net liability 127 98 70 131 426 The net liability is presented on the balance sheet as follows: Non-current pension liability 127 98 70 131 426 Net liability 127 98 70 131 426 Reconciliation of assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2011: Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 4,118 959 262 122 5,461 Fair value of plan assets 3,988 834 202 5,024 Deficit in the plan 130 125 60 122 437 Irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus Note25 vii 30 30 Net liability 160 125 60 122 467 The net liability is presented on the balance sheet as follows: Non-current pension liability 160 125 60 122 467 Net liability 160 125 60 122 467 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 129 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued vii Impact of IFRIC 14 The Group is committed to make payments to the Invensys Pension Scheme UK under a deficit funding contribution schedule agreed with the trustees.
Where the present value of the agreed funding payments exceeds the liability in respect of the scheme as measured under IFRSs, and would therefore, when paid, give rise to a surplus as measured under IFRSs, a provision isrecognised for any part of that surplus that would not be recoverable.
Any surplus on the Invensys Pension Scheme UK ultimately repaid by the trustees would currently be subject to a 35% tax charge prior to being repaid, so a liability for this tax isrecognised at the relevant balance sheet date.
At 31 March 2012 the present value of the agreed funding payments exceeds the liability of the scheme under IFRSs and consequently the irrecoverable element of the pension surplus is 34 million 2011:30 million.
2012 2011 At 31 March m m Deficit in the scheme 93 130 Future minimum funding requirements 190 215 Potential future pension surplus 97 85 Irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus 34 30 Recoverable element of potential future pension surplus 63 55 Movement in irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus 4 As required by IAS 19 liabilities for each scheme are determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
Thisis an accrued benefits valuation method that discounts the best estimate of future cash flows and makes allowance for projected earnings.
If the Invensys Pension Scheme UK were to be wound up, the relevant employers would be responsible, under section 75 of the Pensions Act 1995 to fund the Invensys Pension Scheme UK up to the levels of the cost of buying out the benefits for all scheme members with an insurer.
This cost would be considerably more than the value placed on the ongoing liabilities for accounting purposes.
The deficit in the Invensys Pension Scheme UK calculated on a winding up basis was approximately 1.5billion as at 31March 2011, the date of the last actuarial valuation.
This will be reviewed and updated at the next valuation.
viii Defined benefit schemes expected rate of return and analysis of scheme assets The expected long-term rate of return and market value of funded defined benefit schemes at 31 March 2012 were: Invensys Pension Scheme UK Invensys Pension Plan US Other Total Expected Expected Expected long-term Market long-term Market long-term Market Market rate of return value rate of return value rate of return value value % m % m % m m Equities 7.3 201 7.1 185 7.4 119 505 Bonds 3.7 3,464 5.5 347 4.2 61 3,872 Other 6.0 568 4.6 440 5.2 24 1,032 Fair value of plan assets 4,233 972 204 5,409 The expected long-term rate of return and market value of funded defined benefit schemes at 31 March 2011 were: Invensys Pension Scheme UK Invensys Pension Plan US Other Total Expected Expected Expected Market long-term Market long-term Market Market long-term rate of return value rate of return value rate of return value value % m % m % m m Equities 7.8 200 7.4 172 7.8 116 488 1 Bonds 4.8 3,008 5.9 264 4.8 61 3,125 1 Other 7.1 780 6.4 398 5.6 25 1,411 Fair value of plan assets 3,988 834 202 5,024 1 Reclassification of 208 million from Other to Bonds.
The expected return on each asset class has been determined on the basis of market expectations for the rate of return on each asset class over the life of the related obligation, at the balance sheet date.
In respect of the Invensys Pension Scheme UK, Government and Corporate Bond indices have been used to set the expected rate of return on bonds, and a risk premium hasbeen applied to determine the expected long-term rate of return on equity investments.
Similar processes are applied toother schemes.
The investment strategy determined by the trustees of the Invensys Pension Scheme continues to reflect the mature nature of the scheme with assets predominantly invested in bonds or bond-like investments.
130 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information ix Defined benefit schemes history of experience adjustments Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m m Year ended 31 March 2012 Present value of defined benefit obligation 4,326 1,070 274 131 5,801 Fair value of plan assets 4,233 972 204 5,409 Deficit in the plan 93 98 70 131 392 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 19 1 6 2 24 Experience adjustments on plan assets 214 107 1 320 Year ended 31 March 2011 Present value of defined benefit obligation 4,118 959 262 122 5,461 Fair value of plan assets 3,988 834 202 5,024 Deficit in the plan 130 125 60 122 437 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 15 12 4 3 20 Experience adjustments on plan assets 49 60 6 115 Year ended 31 March 2010 Present value of defined benefit obligation 4,056 982 283 149 5,470 Fair value of plan assets 3,902 820 197 4,919 Deficit in the plan 154 162 86 149 551 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 72 6 4 70 Experience adjustments on plan assets 263 2 23 288 Year ended 31 March 2009 Present value of defined benefit obligation 3,618 859 210 161 4,848 Fair value of plan assets 3,610 855 162 4,627 Deficit in the plan 8 4 48 161 221 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 96 5 10 111 Experience adjustments on plan assets 301 65 42 408 Year ended 31 March 2008 Present value of defined benefit obligation 3,888 695 211 145 4,939 Fair value of plan assets 3,878 663 181 4,722 Deficit in the plan 10 32 30 145 217 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 11 7 1 4 13 Experience adjustments on plan assets 34 16 12 30 Cumulative actuarial gains and losses The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 1 April 2004 in the consolidated statement ofcomprehensive income is a loss of 390 million 2011: 355 million.
com 131 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued x Pensions and post-retirement benefits other Total pension service costs charged to the income statement in respect of defined benefit and defined contribution schemes amounted to 37 million 2011: 37 million.
The estimated levels of contributions expected to be paid to defined benefit schemes in the year to 31 March 2013 are as follows: Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m m 48 11 8 8 75 Regarding rates of contributions for future years, following the triennial valuation of the Invensys Pension Scheme UK valuationdate 31 March 2011, contributions to the Invensys Pension Scheme UK will be made at the rate of 19.8% of pensionable salaries up to the date of the next triennial valuation.
In addition, the Company will continue to make annual supplemental contributions to the scheme.
These amount to 40 million in the year ending 31 March 2013 increasing by a further 1 million in the year ending 31 March 2014 and then 2 million per annum thereafter until 2017.
Where the proceeds from the sale of a business exceed 1 million, at least 8% of the proceeds net of tax and costs will be paid as additional contributions to the Invensys Pension Scheme UK.
The funding plan is subject to revision after the next triennial valuation whichwillhave a reference date of 31 March 2014.
Under the Invensys Pension Plan US, contributions will be made at the level required to meet the minimum requirements set forth by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and related regulations.
From time to time, discretionary amounts are contributed to enhance the security of participants benefits based on other considerations, including available cash flow and the Companys tax position.
The following graphs show a projection of the benefit payments and the present value of the defined benefit obligations from the Invensys Pension Scheme UK and Invensys Pension Plan US based on the assumptions underlying the IAS 19 assessment of obligations at 31 March 2012: Invensys Pension Scheme UK Invensys Pension Plan US 5.0 300 1.8 250 4.5 1.6 250 200 4.0 1.4 3.5 200 1.2 150 3.0 1.0 150 2.5 0.8 100 2.0 100 0.6 1.5 0.4 50 1.0 50 0.2 0.5 0 0 0 0 2012 2017 2022 2027 2032 2037 2042 2047 2052 2057 2062 2067 2072 2012 2017 2022 2027 2032 2037 2042 2047 2052 2057 2062 2067 2072 1 2 1, 3 2 Present Value of dened benefit obligations m benefit Payments m Present Value of dened benefit obligations $m benefit Payments $m 1 The present value of defined benefit obligations has been adjusted to todays prices.
2 Benefit payments include assumed inflation.
3 The sharp decrease in benefit payments in the Invensys Pension Plan US is a result of the projected settlement with a number of deferred plan members.
132 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Present Value of dened benefit obligations bn benefit Payments m Present Value of dened benefit obligations $bn benefit Payments $m Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information 26 Trade and other payables 2012 2011 Note m m Non-current Other payables 10 10 10 10 Current Trade payables 274 280 Accruals and deferred income 166 174 Interest payable 2 3 Other payables 91 89 533 546 Total trade and other payables 543 556 Classification to financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost 22 i 506 516 Non-financial liabilities 37 40 543 556 Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities are as follows: Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are on average normally settled on 50-day terms.
Interest payable on the Groups borrowing facility is settled quarterly.
Other payables include sales taxes, social security and payroll taxes, payroll creditors, customer advances not related to construction contracts, payments received from customers in advance of work performed on construction contracts and commissions payable.
The majority of non-current other payables will mature in more than one year but in less than two years: there is a small proportion that will mature in over five years.
Thematurity profile of trade and other payables classified as financial liabilities is given in Note 22.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of both current and non-current trade and other payables approximates totheirfair value.
27 Issued share capital Issued share capital 2012 2011 Number Number of shares 2012 of shares 2011 Issued and fully paid: million m million m Ordinary shares of 10p each 813 81 810 81 A reconciliation of the issued, allotted and fully paid share capital is as follows: Number Share of shares capital million m At 1 April 2010 807 81 Issue of ordinary shares of 10p each 3 At 31 March 2011 810 81 Issue of ordinary shares of 10p each 3 At 31 March 2012 813 81 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 133 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 27 Issued share capital continued Shares reserved for issue under share options and awards During the year the Company issued 3,000,762 ordinary shares of 10 pence each pursuant to the exercise of options under the Invensys Savings Related Share Option Scheme SRSOS, Invensys Overseas Savings Related Share Option Scheme OSRSOS, Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan 1998 LTIP, Invensys 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 LTIP, the 2007 CEO Special Award and an option granted to the former chief executive under an individual arrangement 2011: 2,226,021 under the SRSOS, OSRSOS, 1998 LTIP, 2007 LTIP and 2007 CEO Special Award.
On 29 June 2011, 8 September 2011 and 20 December 2011 conditional awards over a total of 4,784,560 ordinary shares were granted under the 2007 LTIP 2011: 5,267,195.
On 14 July 2011, options over a total of 2,110,542 ordinary shares were granted under the SRSOS and OSRSOS 2011: nil.
There were 12,034,692 conditional awards outstanding under the 2007 LTIP as at 31 March 2012 2011: 14,279,061 under the 1998 LTIP and 2007 LTIP.
These conditional awards will be released at various dates between 2012 and 2014, subject to the satisfaction of the performance requirements and any appropriate holding period.
As at 31 March 2012, no share awards remained outstanding under the CEO Special Award 2011: 377,861, including shares representing accrued dividends.
As at 31 March 2012, there were no outstanding executive share options 2011: 803,298.
Outstanding options under the SRSOS and OSRSOS as at 31 March 2012 were as follows: 2,185,135 shares exercisable between September 2012 and March 2013 at an exercise price of 175 pence per share 2011: 2,717,450, and 2,040,249 shares exercisable between September 2014 and March 2015 at an exercisable price of 246 pence per share 2011: nil.
Treasury shares Treasury shares comprise shares held by the Invensys Employee Share Trust.
The movement in treasury shares is set out below: Number of shares m At 1 April 2010 800,456 2 Purchase of shares 1,496,530 4 Transfer of legal title of restricted shares 570,076 1 Distribution of shares under share schemes 1,010,147 3 At 31 March 2011 716,763 2 Purchase of shares 326,000 1 Distribution of shares under share schemes 651,545 2 At 31 March 2012 391,218 1 Shares held by the Invensys Employee Share Trust At 31 March 2012, the Invensys No.
2 Employee Benefit Trust the Trust held 391,218 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in Invensys plc with a market value of 1 million 2011: 716,763 ordinary shares of 10 pence each with a market value of 2 million.
The Trust holds ordinary shares in the Company which may be used to deliver ordinary shares under certain executive share schemes.
All the shares held by the Trust are solely for this purpose and are distributed to employees in accordance with the terms of the Companys schemes.
Shares held by the Trust are accounted for as treasury shares and deducted from equity.
During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Company established a Rabbi Trust in the US which is used to deliver ordinary shares of the Company in the US under certain executive share schemes.
The Rabbi Trust held no ordinary shares at 31 March 2012 2011: nil.
Restricted shares 570,076 restricted shares with a market value of 1 million were issued on 15 March 2010 as a replacement award for the remaining shares still to be issued under the 2006 LTIP Award, RSP and DSP awards.
Participants receiving the restricted shares were required to retain them until the service condition was satisfied on the vesting date of the original award in June 2010.
Iftheservice conditions were not satisfied on this date, legal ownership of the share reverted to Invensys plc.
These shares wereaccounted for as treasury shares as at 31 March 2010.
There was no equivalent arrangement in place at 31 March 2011 or31 March 2012.
134 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information 28 Nature and purpose of other equity reserves The analysis of the balance and movement on other equity reserves is shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The nature and purpose of these reserves are as follows: Share premium account This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value.
Capital reserve Previously the Group merger reserve, this reserve was created on the merger of BTR plc and Siebe plc in February 1999 and isnon-distributable.
Special reserve This reserve represents the balance remaining after the elimination of the deficit in the reserves of the Parent Company following the capital reduction on 22 January 2009.
The reserve will remain pending the settlement or consent of creditors orcontingent creditors of the Parent Company in existence at the date of the capital reduction.
Cash flow hedge reserve This reserve records, for each hedged item in an effective cash flow hedge, the cumulative change in fair value of the expected future cash flow on the hedged item from the inception of the hedge relationship.
Foreign exchange reserve The foreign exchange reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements offoreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record the foreign exchange on net investments in these subsidiaries.
29 Share-based payment plans i Measurement of fair value Share awards An adjusted market value method of valuation, based on market value at grant date and market-based performance conditions, has been used to calculate the fair value of all share awards granted during the year.
Share options The Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used to calculate the fair value of all share options granted during the year.
These options were granted under savings related share option schemes for which vesting is not dependent on market conditions.
Expected volatility was based on both historical volatility of the Companys share price over the previous ten years and on the implied volatility of traded options of the Groups shares.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Share-based payment expense The Group recognised total expenses of 5 million 2011: 9 million related to share-based payment transactions during the year, of which 4 million 2011: 8 million related to equity-settled and 1 million 2011: 1 million related to cash-settled transactions.
The carrying amount of the liability relating to the cash-settled awards at 31 March 2012 is 1 million 2011:1million.
The Company operates various share schemes under which options and awards have been granted and are outstanding assetout below: Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 135 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 Share-based payment plans continued ii Executive share options Executive share options detailed below include options granted under the Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme and the option granted to the former Chief Executive, Ulf Henriksson, under a separate arrangement on 1 June 2004.
Grants No executive share options were granted in the year ended 31 March 2012 or the year ended 31 March 2011.
Options outstanding Details of relevant options outstanding as at 31 March 2012 are detailed below: Executive share options Weighted Number of average share options exercise price p Outstanding at the beginning of the year 803,298 532.71 Lapsed during the year 268,008 1,287.92 Exercised during the year 535,290 154.59 Outstanding at the end of the year Exercisable at the end of the year Details of relevant options outstanding as at 31 March 2011 are detailed below: Executive share options Weighted Number of average share options exercise price p Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,134,026 937.18 Lapsed during the year 330,728 1,933.18 Outstanding at the end of the year 803,298 532.71 Exercisable at the end of the year 803,298 532.71 There were no executive share options outstanding at 31 March 2012.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at 31March 2011 are detailed below: Executive share options Weighted Weighted average average remaining Number of exercise contractual share options price p life years 2011 154.59p 535,290 154.59 1.0 1,213.72p to 1,307.31p 268,008 1,287.91 0.2 803,298 532.71 0.7 136 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information iii Long-term incentives Long-term incentives include awards granted under the Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, the Invensys 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 LTIP, the 2007 CEO Special Award, the Invensys Restricted Share Plan RSP and the Deferred Share Plan DSP.
Grants Details of grants made during the year ended 31 March 2012 are detailed below: 2007 LTIP RSP DSP Total number of awards granted 5,011,551 339,551 215,673 Weighted average fair value 253.07p 300.39p 279.38p Exercise price n a n a n a Expected volatility 46.3% n a n a Weighted average expected award life 3.0 years 2.1 years 2.4 years Expected option life n a n a n a Expected dividend yield 1.32% 0% n a Risk free interest rate 2.36% n a n a Details of grants made during the year ended 31 March 2011 are detailed below: 2007 LTIP RSP DSP Total number of awards granted 5,680,828 563,219 70,003 Weighted average fair value 243.73p 291.96p n a Exercise price n a n a n a Expected volatility 46.3% n a n a Weighted average expected award life 3.0 years 2.1 years 3.0 years Expected dividend yield 1.32% 0% n a Risk free interest rate 2.93% n a n a No grants were made under the LTIP or 2007 CEO Special Award for the year ended 31 March 2012 or 31 March 2011.
Awards outstanding Details of relevant awards outstanding as at 31 March 2012 are detailed below: 2007 CEO LTIP 2007 LTIP Special Award RSP DSP Outstanding at the beginning of the year 11,012 15,309,776 377,861 1,085,931 472,685 Granted during the year 5,011,551 339,551 215,673 Dividends during the year 56,210 9,001 4,850 Forfeited during the year 4,429,048 238,500 Exercised during the year 11,012 2,115,248 377,861 478,698 212,278 Lapsed during the year 982,575 Outstanding at the end of the year 12,850,666 717,285 480,930 Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised p 303.50 268.65 293.10 292.58 307.65 Weighted average remaining contractual life years n a 1.35 n a 1.44 1.20 Details of relevant awards outstanding as at 31 March 2011 are detailed below: 2007 CEO LTIP 2007 LTIP Special Award RSP DSP Outstanding at the beginning of the year 927,208 13,554,707 1,608,554 2,226,638 641,181 Granted during the year 5,680,828 563,219 70,003 Dividends during the year 4,549 41,896 12,577 14,122 1,295 Forfeited during the year 31,818 803,134 39,411 Exercised during the year 679,739 1,661,746 372,858 1,194,629 239,794 Lapsed during the year 209,188 1,502,775 870,412 484,008 Outstanding at the end of the year 11,012 15,309,776 377,861 1,085,931 472,685 Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised p 299.00 277.00 n a 301.00 306.00 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 0.20 1.40 0.20 1.10 1.20 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 137 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 Share-based payment plans continued All employee schemes All employee schemes comprise the Invensys Savings Related Share Option Scheme and the Invensys Overseas Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
Grants Details of grants made during the year ended 31 March 2012 are detailed below: Invensys Invensys Overseas Savings Savings Related Related Scheme Scheme Total number of awards granted 929,839 1,949,328 Weighted average fair value 118.77p 118.77p Exercise price 246.00p 246.00p Expected volatility 46% 46% Weighted average expected award life 3 years 3 years Expected option life n a n a Expected dividend yield 1.32% 1.32% Risk free interest rate 2.36% 2.36% No options were granted under these schemes in the year ended 31 March 2011.
Options outstanding Details of relevant options outstanding as at 31 March 2012 are detailed below: Invensys Savings Related Invensys Overseas Savings Scheme Related Scheme Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average share options share price p share options share price p Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,136,130 175.00 1,581,320 175.00 Granted during the year 929,839 246.00 1,949,328 246.00 Forfeited during the year 28,152 191.36 21,266 190.59 Exercised during the year 29,283 175.00 13,546 175.00 Lapsed during the year 109,091 202.41 35,316 201.84 Outstanding at the end of the year 1,899,443 207.94 3,460,520 214.62 Exercisable at the end of the year n a n a Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised n a 175.00 n a 175.00 Details of relevant options outstanding as at 31 March 2011 are detailed below: Invensys Savings Related Invensys Overseas Savings Scheme Related Scheme Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average share options share price p share options share price p Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,259,558 178.11 1,687,246 175.00 Granted during the year Forfeited during the year 34,008 175.00 5,536 175.00 Exercised during the year 10,221 175.00 11,858 175.00 Lapsed during the year 79,199 224.49 88,532 175.00 Outstanding at the end of the year 1,136,130 175.00 1,581,320 175.00 Exercisable at the end of the year n a n a Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised p n a 175.00 n a 175.00 138 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year, are as follows: Invensys Savings Related Scheme Invensys Overseas Savings Related Scheme Weighted Weighted Weighted average Weighted average average remaining average remaining Number of exercise contractual Number of exercise contractual share options price p life years share options price p life years 2012 175.00p 1,018,207 175.00 0.4 1,529,214 175.00 0.4 246.00p 881,236 246.00 2.42 1,931,306 246.00 2.42 1,899,443 207.94 1.35 3,460,520 214.62 1.54 2011 175.00p 1,136,130 175.00 1.3 1,581,320 175.00 1.3 iv Explanation of schemes Executive share options Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme Grant details An executive share option scheme under which options have been granted to directors and senior executives at no cost.
Options were exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of the grant date at a price equal to the average middle market quoted price of the Companys shares over the five dealing days which preceded the date of grant.
Options were satisfied by the issue of new shares or, in the case of awards granted as share appreciation rights, in cash.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: Earnings per share EPS performance of RPI 12% over a three-year period to be applied each year until the earlier of when thecondition is met, or the measurement period, the last financial year of which is the year preceding that in which the option will lapse.
No performance conditions attached to the option granted to the former Chief Executive Mr Henriksson under a separate arrangement on 1 June 2004.
Service requirements: Options would be forfeited if the participant left employment, although options may have been exercisable for a certain period oftime in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use The Company can no longer make grants under this scheme as the plan expired in July 2008.
Long-term incentives Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Grant details A long-term incentive plan under which awards were granted to executive directors and senior executives at no or nominal cost.
Depending on the country in which the participant is resident the award would be delivered using one of the following mechanisms: a a nominal or nil price option which is a right to acquire shares for a nominal or nil payment unless the Company determines otherwise : b a conditional share award: or c a cash award granted in respect of a notional number of shares.
Awards are normally subject to a three-year performance period, commencing on the date of award, followed by a retention period.
For awards granted prior to 22 July 2005 the retention period was two years: for awards made on or after 22 July 2005, 50% of any shares vesting on satisfaction of the performance requirements were released at the end of the performance period with the other 50% being deferred for one year.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: Total Shareholder Return TSR test TSR ranked against a peer group, selected at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee with no retesting opportunities.
TSR must rank at the median position when the peer group is ranked in descending order of TSR in order for 25% of the shares subject to the award to be available subject to the retention period, rising to 100% of the shares if the upper decile position was achieved.
Between these positions, the number of shares would be calculated on a straight-line basis.
If at least median position was not achieved the whole award would lapse.
The peer groups selected for the relevant awards were as follows: awards granted prior to 22 July 2005: the companies that comprised the FTSE Mid 250 Index on the date of grant: and awards granted on or after 22 July 2005: ABB, Eaton, Emerson, GE, Honeywell, Johnson Controls, Rockwell, Schlumberger, Schneider, Siemens, Smiths Group and Yokogawa.
com 139 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 Share-based payment plans continued Overall performance test The Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that: a for awards granted prior to 22 July 2005 there had been a sustained delivery over the performance period, regarding the trading performance of continuing operations, disposal proceeds and reduction in Group indebtedness: b for awards granted on or after 22 July 2005 that two underpins had been met: 1 achievement of stretching internal free cash flow targets: and 2 efficient management of legacy liability items: and c for awards granted on or after 1 June 2006 that two underpin tests had been met: 1 successful completion of the 2006 Refinancing and, in addition, a sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Group: and 2 efficient management of legacy liability items.
Service requirements: Awards would be forfeited if the participant left employment, although shares may have been released subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use Awards are no longer granted under this scheme since its expiry in July 2008.
Long-term incentive awards are now granted under the Invensys 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan.
Invensys 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 LTIP Grant details A long-term incentive plan under which awards are granted to executive directors and senior executives at no or nominal cost.
Depending on the country in which the participant is resident the award would be delivered using one of the following mechanisms: a a nominal or nil price option which is a right to acquire shares for a nominal or nil payment unless the Company determines otherwise : b a conditional share award: or c a cash award granted in respect of a nominal number of shares.
Awards are normally subject to a three-year performance period, commencing on the start of the financial year in which the date of award falls.
There is no retention period.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: Awards are subject to two independent performance conditions.
For executive directors: a 50% of an award is based on growth in the Companys TSR relative to the constituent companies of the Standard & Poors Global 1200 Capital Goods Index: and b 50% of an award is based on the compound annual growth rate CAGR in the Groups Earnings Per Share.
For all other participants a 35% of an award is based on growth in the Companys TSR relative to the constituent companies of the Standard & Poors Global 1200 Capital Goods Index: and b 35% of an award is based on the CAGR in the Groups Earnings Per Share.
There are no performance conditions applying to the remaining 30% of an award.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to ensure that, as a condition for the vesting of any TSR EPS shares, the underlying overall performance of the Group has been satisfactory.
Factors that will be taken into account will include consistency of earnings and the Groups cash position over the performance period.
Service requirements: If a participant is dismissed for cause before shares are released, the award will be forfeited.
If a participant resigns, their award will lapse unless the Remuneration Committee exercise their discretion.
If a participants employment ceases for good leaver reasons or any other reason determined at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, the financial performance tests will be measured at the normal vesting date and, subject to the outcome of the financial performance tests, the award will be pro-rated based on the period of service and released on the normal vesting date.
Scheme use The 2007 LTIP is used as the Groups main share-based long-term incentive plan under which share awards are granted.
Thefirstgrants under this plan were made in the year ended 31 March 2008.
2007 CEO Special Award Special Award Grant details Approved by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, the Special Award was a one-off conditional share award granted to the former Chief Executive equal to 700% of his 2007 08 base salary.
The Special Award was subject to a three-year performance period ending on 31 March 2010 followed by a holding period as detailed below.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: The performance measures applying to the Special Award reflected those applying to the 2007 LTIP with some elements being more demanding.
The Special Award was split into two layers, each of which vested on a different basis.
For the first layer equal to 200% of base salary, 20% would vest for threshold performance and 100% for maximum performance.
For the second layer equal to 500% of base salary, there would be no vesting for threshold performance, but 100% would vest for maximum performance.
Vesting in each layer was to be on a straight-line basis between these points.
For each layer of the Special Award 50% would vest based on TSR and 50% based on EPS growth, as for the 2007 LTIP.
However, for the TSR part of the Special Award, maximum vesting would require more stretching performance equivalent to upper quintile.
This was calculated by the advisers to the Remuneration Committee as outperformance of the mean of the Standard &Poors Global 1200 Capital Goods Index constituents by a factor of 1.4 i. e. 40%.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee retained discretion to ensure that as a condition for the vesting of shares, the underlying overall performance of the Group had been satisfactory.
In the case of the TSR performance target factors that would be taken into account included EPS growth and the Companys cash position.
140 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Result of performance requirements for CEO Special Award With regard to the TSR test, the Remuneration Committee determined that 93.0% of the first layer of shares and 91.3% ofthesecond layer of shares were available to vest.
Of this total, 50% were released as soon as practicable following the announcement of the full-year results for 2009 10 and the balance was released following a 12-month period from the firstrelease at 25 May 2010, on 26 May 2011.
With regard to the EPS part of the award 50%, after considering the 2009 10 audited financial results, the Remuneration Committee determined that the threshold level of EPS CAGR required for vesting was not achieved and the shares subject totheEPS performance condition, as a result, lapsed.
Service requirements: The general rule is that the award would be forfeited if the participant left employment, although shares may be released in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
The holder left the Company on 24 March 2011 and the Remuneration Committee permitted retention of the entitlement to the remaining shares under the Special Award, that have now been released.
Scheme use The Special Award was a one-off grant at no cost made during the year ended 31 March 2008.
Invensys Restricted Share Plan RSP Grant details A restricted share plan whereby awards, to be satisfied by the transfer of existing issued shares or in cash, are granted to certain senior employees at no cost.
The vesting period for awards is determined separately for each award.
Vesting periods normally fall between one and three years.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: Awards are not subject to specific performance conditions apart from continued employment throughout the vesting period and satisfactory personal performance.
Service requirements: Release of shares is generally subject to continued employment at the relevant date, although shares may be released early, onapro-rata basis, in defined good leaver cases or for any other reason at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use The plan is operated predominantly for senior executives in special circumstances, such as recruitment and retention situations.
Deferred Share Plan DSP Grant details The DSP was introduced in 2007 08 to replace the Turnaround Bonus Overlay Plan TBOP.
Any bonus earned under the Executive Bonus Plan EBP for 2007 08 in excess of target performance was paid in deferred shares, with any bonus earned upto the target performance being paid in cash.
The shares would be released to the individual after three years in the case ofexecutive directors and two years for all other participants.
All awards are satisfied by the transfer of existing issued shares.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: The amount of shares granted is set by reference to the performance targets specified for the relevant executives in the EBP.
Service requirements: Save where a participant is dismissed for cause before the relevant release date, shares under award will be released to participants on the release date, unless the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion should decide on a different release date.
Scheme use The first grant under the DSP was made on 24 July 2008 and was used for all participants in the EBP who earned bonuses in excess of target.
For 2008 09 onwards, where applicable, bonus in excess of target performance will only be paid in deferred shares to executive directors and members of the Group Leadership Team.
Bonus payments for all other members of the EBP are paid entirely in cash.
com 141 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 Share-based payment plans continued All employee schemes Invensys Savings Related Share Option Scheme Grant details The Scheme which operates in the UK, is based on a savings plan and is offered to eligible full and part-time employees.
Options may be granted at up to a 20% discount to the market price of the Companys shares immediately preceding the date ofinvitation.
The vesting period for the options is three years.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: The Scheme operates in the UK within specific tax legislation and is therefore not subject to performance conditions.
However, aparticipant is required to complete the savings contract in order to exercise their options.
Service requirements: The general rule is that the option will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although options may be exercisable for acertain period of time in defined good leaver cases.
Scheme use The use of the Scheme and potential future launches are reviewed on a regular basis.
Invitations were offered under this Scheme in the years ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2012.
Invensys Overseas Savings Related Share Option Scheme Grant details The Scheme operates in a number of overseas countries which are selected by reference to the numbers of eligible employees and local legal and tax requirements.
It is based on a savings plan and is offered to eligible full and part-time employees.
The vesting period for the options is three years with the options being settled in shares or cash depending on theparticipants country of residence.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: There are no performance conditions.
However, a participant is required to complete the savings contract in order to exercise their options.
142 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information 30 Commitments and contingencies Capital expenditure Capital expenditure for property, plant and equipment contracted at the balance sheet date but for which no provision has been made in the accounts amounted to 1 million 2011: 2 million.
Operating leases The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain land and buildings, motor vehicles and items of plant and equipment.
Land and buildings leases are generally subject to periodic rent reviews.
Some leases have renewal options.
These are at the option of the Group, sometimes subject to a minimum notice period.
In some cases rent escalations are set out in the lease contract.
There are no material contingent rents payable.
No significant restrictions are placed upon the Group by entering intothese leases.
Operating lease payments 2012 2011 m m Minimum lease payments 39 38 Sublease receipts 1 1 Operating lease payments 38 37 Operating lease commitments Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Land and Land and buildings Other Total buildings Other Total 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 m m m m m m Not later than one year 42 7 49 44 7 51 After one year but not more than five years 89 7 96 92 11 103 Later than five years 73 73 84 84 204 14 218 220 18 238 The total of future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 March 2012 is8 million 2011: 14 million.
Obligations under finance leases At 31 March 2012 future minimum payments due under finance leases and similar hire purchase arrangements together with thepresent value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: Present Present Minimum value of Minimum value of lease minimum lease minimum payments payments payments payments 2012 2012 2011 2011 m m m m Payable not later than one year 1 1 1 1 Payable after one year but not more than five years Total gross payments 1 1 1 1 Less: finance charges allocated to future periods Present value of finance lease obligations 1 1 Amount due for settlement within 12 months 1 1 Amount due for settlement after 12 months There were no sublease arrangements in place for these assets at 31 March 2012 or 31 March 2011.
com 143 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30 Commitments and contingencies continued The Group leases a small proportion of its plant and equipment under finance leases, but does not currently have any significant finance lease arrangements.
The average effective borrowing rate for the year ended 31 March 2012 was 4% 2011: 4%.
The fair value of the Groups finance lease obligations approximates to their carrying amount.
The Groups finance lease liabilities are secured against the assets to which they relate.
Contingent liabilities Group companies have given performance guarantees to certain subsidiaries and certain former subsidiaries prior to disposal in the normal course of business.
Counter-indemnities have been received from purchasers in the case of guarantees given in favour of former subsidiaries.
At the balance sheet date, the directors are not aware of any circumstances that may give rise to aliability to the Group under these performance guarantees.
No member of the Group is engaged in nor so far as the directors are aware has pending, or is threatened by, or has against it any legal or arbitration proceedings which may have a significant effect on the financial position of the Group, other than those already disclosed.
The Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank guarantees issued under uncommitted local facilities of 227 million as at 31 March 2012 2011: 219 million which are outlined in Note 21.
31 Reconciliation of cash flows 2012 2011 m m Net cash flows from operating activities 27 139 Capital expenditure included within investing activities 51 61 Interest paid 10 6 Taxation paid operating 34 30 Restructuring 27 25 Other operating exceptional item: costs to settle legal case 10 Facility fees paid 5 Legacy items: Pension contributions 80 62 Other legacy payments 17 12 97 74 Operating cash flow 159 213 Restructuring 27 25 Net finance costs paid 7 1 Facility fees paid 5 Taxation paid operating 34 30 Legacy items 97 74 Free cash flow 11 83 Operating cash flow attributable to: Continuing operations 159 213 The directors use two KPI measures of the Groups cash performance, operating cash flow and free cash flow.
Both measures are reconciled above, starting from net cash flow from operating activities reported in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement on page 86.
144 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information 32 Analysis of business combinations and business disposals i Business combinations Year ended 31 March 2012 There were no acquisitions in the year.
Year ended 31 March 2011 On 21 April 2010, Invensys acquired 100% of the share capital of Skelta Software Private Limited Skelta, a privately held software company headquartered in Bangalore, India, for cash consideration of 6.4 million.
Skelta provides business process management and advanced workflow software solutions.
The acquisition was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting and the Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 include the results of Skelta from its date of acquisition to 31 March 2011, with goodwill arising on the acquisition of 3 million.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Skelta at the date of acquisition was: Fair value recognised on acquisition m Property, plant and equipment 0.2 1 Intangible assets other 2.9 Trade and other receivables 1.3 Cash and cash equivalents 0.6 Total assets 5.0 Trade and other payables 0.1 Amounts due to contract customers 0.4 Current tax payable and deferred income tax liability 1.1 Total liabilities 1.6 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 3.4 Goodwill arising on acquisition 3.0 Total purchase consideration transferred 6.4 Total purchase consideration transferred comprises: cash payment 6.4 6.4 Analysis of cash flows on acquisition: cash paid included in cash flows from investing activities 6.4 net cash acquired with the subsidiary included in cash flows from investing activities 0.6 transaction costs of the acquisition included in cash flows from operating activities 0.3 Net cash outflow 6.1 1 The intangible assets acquired relate to capitalised development costs.
com 145 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 32 Analysis of business combinations and business disposals continued Trade and other receivables includes trade receivables of 0.7 million.
The gross contractual amount of trade receivables is 1.2million.
0.5 million of the trade receivables have been impaired, 0.2 million has been collected and it is expected that 0.5million of the remaining contractual amount can be collected.
The goodwill shown above is attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits arising from combining the assets and activities of Skelta with those of the Group.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Costs relating to the acquisition of Skelta of 0.3 million were expensed in the year ended 31 March 2011 and are included in exceptional items in the income statement.
Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, costs of up to 2.0 million will become payable to the former owners of Skelta dependent on the achievement of certain agreed performance targets subsequent to the acquisition of Skelta by the Group.
From its acquisition date of 21 April 2010 to 31 March 2011, Skelta contributed a profit of 0.1 million to the net profit before tax of the Group and revenue of 2.2 million.
These amounts are included in the Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31March 2011.
Had Skelta been part of the Group for the whole of the year ended 31 March 2011, the profit and revenue of theGroup for the year would not have been materially different from the amounts shown in the Group Financial Statements.
ii Business disposals No operations have been discontinued in the years ended 31 March 2012 or 31 March 2011.
In the year ended 31 March 2011, the Group disposed of net assets of 4 million relating to a small European business in Invensys Controls.
The sale completed on31 December 2010 for cash consideration of 5 million.
The net assets sold comprised property, plant and equipment of 4million, working capital of 1 million and pension liabilities of 1 million.
The gain on disposal of 1 million is included within exceptional items in the income statement.
The assets and liabilities had not been treated as held for sale and prior to their disposal, were included in the Invensys Controls operating segment.
Additional costs have also been incurred in both years, inrelation to prior year disposals.
2012 2011 m m Net cash flow arising on disposal: cash consideration 5 cash costs of disposal 7 9 7 4 33 Directors loan During the year ended 31 March 2011, a loan was made to Mr Henriksson while he was a director of the Company in view of the double taxation suffered in relation to his US employment duties in 2009 10.
Mr Henriksson left the Company on 24 March 2011.
Invensys Systems Inc. advanced 312,691 on 29 June 2010 to Mr Henriksson, being an amount equal to the expected refunds due from HMRC.
As at 31 March 2012 this loan remains outstanding, is free of any interest, and will be repayable within five business days from the date of HMRC making the expected refund to Mr Henriksson.
Mr Henrikssons repayment obligations arenot affected by the termination of his employment with the company.
No further loan has been advanced to any director during the year ended 31 March 2012.
146 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information 34 Related party disclosures These Financial Statements include the Financial Statements of the Group and its subsidiaries.
Details of the Groups principal subsidiaries are included in the listing of Principal Subsidiaries on page 169.
Details of transactions that have been entered into with related parties for the years ended 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011 are as follows: i Remuneration of key management personnel Key management comprises the directors.
Remuneration is as follows: 2012 2011 m m Short-term employee benefits 2 4 Termination benefits 1 Share-based payment 1 2 6 Short-term employee benefits comprise salary and benefits earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year.
Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report.
ii Other related party transactions There are no other related party transactions that have a material effect on the financial position or performance of the Group inthe year 2011: none other than the directors loan disclosed in Note 33.
35 Dividends paid and proposed 2012 2011 m m Paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012: 1.65p 2011: 1.5p 13 12 Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011: 2.5p 2010: 2.0p 20 16 33 28 Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012: 2.75p 2011: 2.5p 22 20 22 20 The interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012 was declared by the Board on 2 November 2011 and paid on 9December 2011.
The final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011 was approved by shareholders on 28 July 2011 and paid on 5 August 2011.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 13 July 2012, the proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012 will be paid on 3 August 2012 to shareholders on the register at 22 June 2012, and will be accounted for as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 31 March 2013.
The Invensys Employee Share Trust has waived its right to the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012 payable on the 391,218 shares that it owns 2011: 716,763 shares.
The Trust also waived its right to the interim dividend for the year ended 31March 2012 payable on the 240,350 shares that it owned.
com 147 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 36 Events after the balance sheet date On 10 May 2012 Invensys acquired 100% of the share capital of PHW Inc. a privately held manufacturer of cab signalling systems and other safety electronic train control systems for the North American mainline and mass transit industries for a cash consideration of 11 million.
The net assets acquired were approximately 6 million.
The acquisition will be accounted for in the year ending 31 March 2013 using the purchase method of accounting.
The disclosure of further information in these Financial Statements is impractical because of the short time between the acquisition dateand the date at which the Financial Statements were authorised for issue.
37 Exchange rates Year ended Year ended As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 2012 2011 average average closing closing US dollar to 1 1.60 1.55 1.60 1.61 Euro to 1 1.16 1.17 1.20 1.14 148 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
