Shareholder Information Ordinary shares Results announcements The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange and are released through its news services.
Shortly thereafter they Registrars are made available at www.
com For all enquiries about the registration of your shares and changes of name and address, please contact the Companys registrars: Financial reports This Annual Report and Accounts, together with other published Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, summary documents and copies of previous financial reports, is West Sussex BN99 6DA available at www.
com Tel: 0871 384 2036 inside the UK Tel: 44 0 121 415 7040 outside the UK Annual General Meeting The AGM is the Companys principal forum for communication Calls are charged at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline.
Investors holding shares in the Othertelephony provider costs may vary.
Lines are open from Companythrough a nominee service should arrange to be 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays.
appointed as a corporate representative or proxy in respect of theirshareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
Electronic communications The2012 AGM will be held on Friday, 13 July 2012 at 11.00am Shareholders can also view up-to-date information about atThe Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, theirshareholding and register to receive future electronic Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
communications from the Company by visiting www.
co. uk shareholder reference number, ShareGift shownonshare certificates and tax vouchers, will be required.
Shareholders with small holdings of shares who do not wish to sell such shares because the sales commission applied would be Invensys nominee service disproportionate to the sale price may consider donating them to The Company has a nominee service under which shareholders charity.
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share can hold their shares electronically rather than in certificate form.
Through the service, shareholders can also take advantage of ShareGift can be contacted at 17 Carlton House Terrace, London streamlined dealing arrangements.
Details of the service are SW1Y 5AH or by telephone on 44 0 20 7930 3737 or online at contained in the Invensys Corporate Nominee Service brochure, www.
org which is available from Equiniti.
Dividend Shareview dealing service Subject to shareholder approval, the directors recommend a Shareholders may buy or sell shares by Internet or telephone through 2011 12 final dividend of 2.75 pence per share 2011: 2.5 pence per Shareview, a share dealing service provided by Equiniti.
The total dividends for the year ended 31 March 2012 are purchases and sales, log on to www.
co. uk dealing and 4.4 pence per share 2011: 4.0 pence per share.
for telephone purchases and sales, call 08456 037 037 inside the UK only between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
The Company decided to introduce a dividend reinvestment plan DRIP in 2011, which enables shareholders to reinvest their American Depositary Receipts ADRs dividends directly into Invensys shares.
For further information on The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for which the DRIP please contact Equiniti.
The Company will issue a the Deutsche Bank Trust Company acts as Depositary.
The Company consolidated tax voucher to those shareholders who receive is quoted on the premium tier of the US Over-The-Counter OTC dividends direct to their bank accounts.
This will be issued in market, OTCQX International Premier: more information can December of each year when the interim dividend if any is beobtained from www.
Each ADR represents one normally paid, unless shareholders advise the registrars in writing ordinary share of the Company.
The ADRs trade under the ticker that they wish to receive a separate tax voucher with each dividend symbol IVNYY.
For enquiries, registered ADR holders may contact payment.
Institutions and other companies that hold shares in the the dedicated Invensys plc ADR shareholder services line on Company will continue to receive a tax voucher for each dividend 1800 301 3517 toll free for US residents only.
Further information is also available at www.
com As dividends are currently only paid in sterling, for overseas shareholders with small shareholdings it may not be economically Financial calendar viable for them to convert sterling payments into their local currency.
Shareholders can, should they so wish, arrange for their Financial year end 2011 12 31 March 2012 dividends to be paid to a charity in the UK.
ShareGift is a UK registered charity which takes unwanted shares and donations and Full-year results 2011 12 announced 17 May 2012 uses the proceeds to make donations to a wide range of other UK Ex dividend date 20 June 2012 registered charities.
Record date for 2011 12 final dividend 22 June 2012 In order to donate outstanding dividend payments to charity, shareholders need to send a signed letter of authority to Equiniti Closing date for DRIP Mandate Form 13 July 2012 asking them to make all outstanding payments payable to ShareGift or another charity.
If not ShareGift, the charitys full name Annual General Meeting 13 July 2012 and address needs to be included.
Payment date for 2011 12 final dividend 3 August 2012 For future dividends, if shareholders wish for these to be paid Settlement date for DRIP shares 9 August 2012 direct to ShareGift, this needs to be clearly stated in their letter of authority.
For all other charities, shareholders will need to include Half-year results 2012 13 announced 15 November 2012 the charitys bank account details to enable the payments to be made by Equiniti via BACS.
170 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Identity theft Warning to shareholders Criminals may steal your personal information, putting your In recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholding at risk.
Tips on protecting your shareholding: shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters which imply a Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold your connection to the company concerned.
These are typically from shares electronically in CREST via a nominee.
overseas-based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to Keep all correspondence from the registrars which shows your sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in shareholder reference number in a safe place, or destroy US or UK investments.
If you change address, inform the registrars.
If you receive a They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a letter from the registrars regarding a change of address and 2006survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA reported have not recently moved, please contact them immediately.
thatthe average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
Youmay be the victim of identity theft.
It is not just the novice investor who has been duped in this way: If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers manyof the victims had been successfully investing for several registered in your country of residence or the UK.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports Forward-looking statements about the Company.
This report includes forward-looking statements, within the If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act 1995, which are based on market projections, forecasts and Make sure you get the correct name of the person and expectations.
Forward-looking statements are by their nature organisation and make a record of any other information they subject to uncertainties and external factors that may affect the give you e. g. telephone number, address, etc.. actual outcomes compared with those anticipated.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved.
You can check at Unsolicited mail www.
do The Company is legally obliged to make its share register available The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised to the general public.
Consequently, some shareholders may overseas firms who are targeting or have targeted UK investors, receive unsolicited mail, including correspondence from and any approach from such organisations should be reported unauthorised investment firms.
If you wish to limit the amount of to the FSA, so that this list can be kept up-to-date and any other unsolicited mail you receive please contact: appropriate action can be considered.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible The Mailing Preference Service, DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation London W1W 8SS Scheme.
uk completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml Registered office Inform the Companys registrars on 0871 384 2036.
They are not Invensys plc, 3rd Floor, 40 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7AW able to investigate such incidents themselves but will record the Tel: 44 0 20 3155 1200 details and pass them on to the Company and liaise with the FSA.
Fax: 44 0 20 3155 1201 Registered in England & Wales number 166023 Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
For the latest investor information and news, visit our website at www.
com More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the Money Advice Service website at www.
uk Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
