Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Preparation of the Accounts The directors are responsible for The directors are responsible for keeping Directors responsibility statement preparing the Annual Report and the adequate accounting records that are We confirm that to the best of our Financial Statements in accordance with sufficient to show and explain the knowledge: applicable United Kingdom law and transactions of the Company and of the a the Financial Statements for the year thoseInternational Financial Reporting Group and disclose with reasonable ended 31 March 2012, prepared in Standards adopted by the European accuracy at any time the financial position accordance with International Financial Union or, in the case of the Companys of the Company and of the Group and Reporting Standards as adopted for Financial Statements, United Kingdom enable them to ensure that the Financial use in the European Union, give a true Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Statements comply with the Companies and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Act 2006.
They are also responsible for Company law requires the directors to financial position and profit of the safeguarding the assets of the Company prepare Company and Group Financial Company and the undertakings and the Group, and hence for taking Statements for each financial year.
Under included in the consolidation as a reasonable steps for the prevention and that law the directors must not approve whole: and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
theFinancial Statements unless they are b the Business Review includes a fair satisfied that they give a true and fair view The Groups business activities, together review of the development and of the state of affairs of the Company and with the factors likely to affect its future performance of the business and the Group and of their profit or loss for that development, performance and position position of the Company and the period.
In preparing the Company and are set out in the Business Review on pages undertakings included in the Group Financial Statements, the directors 18 to 45.
The financial position of the consolidation as a whole, together are required to: Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and witha description of the principal borrowing facilities are described in the  risksand uncertainties that they face.
Financial Review on pages 26 to 30.
Note andthen apply them consistently: 22 to the Financial Statements includes: the presentinformation, including Groups objectives, policies and processes accounting policies, in a manner that By order of the Board for managing its capital: its financial risk provides relevant, reliable, comparable management objectives: details of its and understandable information: financial instruments and hedging  activities: and its exposure to credit risk whencompliance with the specific and liquidity risk.
The principal risks and requirements in applicable accounting uncertainties facing the Group, along standards is insufficient to enable users Wayne Edmunds withmitigating actions, are set out on to understand the impact of particular Chief Executive pages 39 to 44. transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and The Group remains generally in a sound financial performance: and financial position with net cash, banking  facilities totalling 600 million in place until Grouphave complied with applicable 2017, and wellestablished relationships accounting standards, subject to any with key customers and suppliers.
David Thomas material departures disclosed and The directors have a reasonable Chief Financial Officer explained in the Financial Statements.
expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 16 May 2012 future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing The directors of Invensys plc are listed the annual Financial Statements.
78 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
