Shareholder information Our website Dividends AMECs website, amec.
com, is the best source of useful, AMECs interim dividend is usually announced with the up-to-date information about AMEC and its activities, half-year results and paid in the following January: the including annual reports, AGM documents and other final dividend is proposed with the full-year results and shareholder communications.
All announcements made to the London Stock Exchange Dividends can be paid directly into your bank or building can be found at amec.
com rns and alerting services are society account and can also be paid in local currency in available at amec.
Contact our registrars for more details.
AMECs registrars We have a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP if you would AMECs registrars are Capita Registrars.
They maintain prefer to buy more AMEC shares rather than receive the shareholder register on our behalf and handle all the cash dividends.
This is only available to shareholders in administration related to it.
They should be your first point certain countries.
You can find out more on our website of call if you have any queries relating to your shareholding amec.
com investors  dividends in AMEC.
The best way to contact them depends on the or by contacting our registrars.
type of query you may have.
For DRIP, electronic communications Electronic shareholder communication andgeneralenquiries The majority of AMECs shareholders now receive Email ssd@capitaregistrars.
com information from us electronically.
If you have elected to do so and provided an email address, you will receive an Website www.
com email from our registrars whenever any new shareholder Postal address Capita Registrars information is published.
In the absence of an email The Registry address, you will be sent a letter which includes details 34 Beckenham Road ofwhere the information can be found on our website.
Beckenham You can register for electronic shareholder communication Kent BR3 4TU and also manage your personal shareholding online at United Kingdom www.
You will need your Investor 1 2 Telephone UK 0871 664 0300 Code IVC which can be found on your proxy card, share Others 44 20 8639 3399 certificate or dividend tax voucher.
Payment of dividends overseas Printed copies of the annual report 1 Telephone 44 20 8639 3405 Shareholders may receive a printed copy of AMECs Website www.
com international latestannual report on request, within a reasonable 1 Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday timeperiod, by writing to our registered office or by 2 Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras.
fillingin the form on our website amec.
Financial calendar AMECs year end is 31 December.
The normal annual AMECs registered office calendar is as follows: AMEC plc Booths Park Full-year results issued February Chelford Road Annual report published March Knutsford Annual general meeting April Cheshire WA16 8QZ United Kingdom Half-year results issued August Registered in England No 1675285 Interim management statements April and November Full details are available at amec.
122 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 Our values Sustainably delivering excellence to our customers by: Believing in people Never compromising on safety Acting with integrity Front cover shows clockwise from top left : Mary Kelly, Senior Consultant, Mississanga, ON, Canada: Savio Mendonca, HR Administrator, Stuaiba, Kuwait: StuWarlow, Instrument Design Technologist, Vancouver, BC, Canada: Richard Evans, Corrosion Scientist, Birchwood, UK.
Photography by: Justin Grainge, Roth and Ramberg and William King This report is printed using vegetable-based inks by Pureprint Group, a company totally committed to reducing the impact printing has on the environment.
The production of this report is carbon neutral and Pureprint Group is certified to ISO 14001, registered to EMAS Eco Management Audit Scheme and holds the FSC Chain of Custody: number SCS-COC-000620 as well as the Queens Award for Enterprise: Sustainable Development.
This report is printed on Hello Silk, a paper produced from virgin wood fibre from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the FSC Forest Stewardship Council and is ECF elemental chlorine free.
The producing mill is certified to ISO 14001 and EMAS environmental management systems.
Designed and produced by AMEC Corporate Communications in association with The Design Portfolio Marketing Services.
AMEC plc Old Change House 128 Queen Victoria Street London EC4V 4BJ United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 7429 7500 amec.
