Governance DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT The Directors are responsible Ior preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Compan law reTuires the Directors to prepare financial statements Ior each financial ear.
Under that law the Directors are reTuired to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted b the European Union and Article 4 oI the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Parent Compan financial statements in accordance with United.
ingdom Generall Accepted Accounting Practice United.
ingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under compan law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless the are satisfied that the give a true and Iair view oI the state oI aIIairs oI the Compan and oI the profit or loss oI the Compan Ior that period.
In preparing the Parent Compan financial statements, the Directors are reTuired to: select suitable accounting policies and then appl them consistentl make Mudgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent state whether applicable U.
Accounting Standards have been Iollowed, subMect to an material departures disclosed and e[plained in the financial statements and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Compan will continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard reTuires that Directors: properl select and appl accounting policies present inIormation, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable inIormation provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic reTuirements in IFRSs are insuIcient to enable users to understand the impact oI particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entit s financial position and financial perIormance and make an assessment oI the Compan s abilit to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible Ior keeping adeTuate accounting records that are suIcient to show and e[plain the Compan s transactions and disclose with reasonable accurac at an time the financial position oI the Compan and enable them to ensure that the financial statements compl with the Companies Act 2006.
The are also responsible Ior saIeguarding the assets oI the Compan and hence Ior taking reasonable steps Ior the prevention and detection oI Iraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible Ior the maintenance and integrit oI the corporate and financial inIormation included on the Compan s website.
ingdom governing the preparation and dissemination oI financial statements ma diIIer Irom legislation in other Murisdictions.
Responsibility statement We confirm that to the best oI our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting Iramework, give a true and Iair view oI the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss oI the Compan and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole and the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors Report, includes a Iair review oI the development and perIormance oI the business and the position oI the Compan and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description oI the principal risks and uncertainties that the Iace.
B order oI the Board Russell Taylor ChieI E[ecutive OIcer Neil Jones Finance Director 3 December 2012 3 December 2012 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 48
