Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS For the year ended 30 September 2012 1 General information ITE Group plc is a company incorporated in the United.
The address of the registered ofce is given on page 107.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Business Review on pages 8 to 31 and in note 3.
These financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
Impact of new accounting standards New, revised or changes to existing standards which have been adopted by the Group in the year ending 30 September 2012 The following new standards and interpretations have been adopted in the current year but have not impacted the reported results or the financial position: Amendment to IFRS 1 Limited E[emption from Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First Time Adopters Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Amendments to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures and The adoption of these new standards and interpretations has not changed any previously reported gures.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : Amendments to IAS 12, IAS 19, IAS 27, IAS 28 and IFRIC 20 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classication and Measurement IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group, e[cept for: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments This will introduce a number of changes in the presentation of financial instruments.
IFRS 1013 were issued by the IASB on 12 May 2011 and which are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
These pronouncements have not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
The Group has not completed its assessment of the impact of pronouncements on the consolidated results, financial position or cash ows of the Group.
2 Basis of accounting ITE Group plc is a U. listed company and, together with its subsidiary operations, is hereafter referred to as the Group.
The Company is required to prepare its consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
In addition, the Group has complied with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires the Directors to make Mudgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and income and e[penses.
These estimates and associated assumptions are based on past e[perience and other factors considered applicable at the time and are used to make Mudgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that cannot be readily determined from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
These estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Changes to estimates and assumptions are reected in the financial statements in the period in which they are made.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes that the Company will continue in operational e[istence for the foreseeable future as disclosed in the Finance Directors statement on page 36.
The statements are presented in pounds Sterling and have been prepared under IFRS using the historical cost convention, e[cept for the revaluation of financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 67 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2012 2 Basis of accounting continued Basis of consolidation The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of ITE Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings controlled by the Company drawn up to 30 September each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any e[cess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identiable net assets is recognised as goodwill.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is stated at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair values of assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the non-controlling interest in e[cess of the non-controlling interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adMustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and e[penses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interest in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries is identied separately from the Groups equity therein.
Non-controlling interest consists of the amount of those interests as at the date of the original business combination and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interest in e[cess of their interest in the subsidiaries equity are allocated against noncontrolling interest even if this results in a deficit balance, e[cept to the e[tent that the non-controlling interest has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of e[change, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in e[change for control of the acquiree.
Any costs attributable to the business combination are e[pensed directly to the Income Statement.
The acquirees identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, e[cept for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classied as held for resale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the e[cess of the cost ofthebusiness combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and  recognised.
If the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities e[ceeds the cost of the business combination, the e[cess is recognised immediately in the incomestatement.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adMusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adMustments.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classied as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classied as equity are not recognised.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured as the non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the e[cess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units e[pected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested forimpairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying value of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to other assets of the unit, pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 68 Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements 2 Basis of accounting continued On disposal of a subsidiary or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit orloss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous U. GAAP amounts subMect to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under U. GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill on acquisition of a foreign entity is treated as an asset of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
The Group has elected to treat goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS as Sterling denominated assets.
Intangible assets Computer software is initially measured at purchase cost.
Customer relationships, trademarks and licences and visitor databases are measured at fair value.
Computer software, customer relationships, trademarks and licences and visitor databases have a definite useful life and are carried at cost or fair value less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost over their estimated useful life.
The estimated useful lives are typically between three and ten years for customer relationships, for some trademarks up to 20 years and for visitor databases between five and eight years.
Computer software is amortised over four years.
Impairment of assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
If any such indication e[ists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the e[tent of the impairment if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash ows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset for which estimates of future cash ows have not been adMusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment is recognised immediately as an e[pense.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not e[ceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged to write off the cost of assets over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: Leasehold improvements term of lease Plant and equipment four to ten years Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their e[pected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets, or where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying value amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Associates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to e[ercise significant inuence, but not control or Moint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
significant inuence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or Moint control over those policies.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2012 2 Basis of accounting continued The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method ofaccounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adMusted by post acquisition changes inthe Groups share of net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of an associate in e[cess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the associate are recognised only to the e[tent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Any e[cess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the Groups share of the fair value of the identiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited in profit or loss in the period of acquisition.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the e[tent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case an appropriate provision is made for impairment.
Venue advances Venue advances arise where the Group has advanced funds to venue owners that can be repaid by either off-setting against future venue hire or by cash repayment.
Where the advance can be settled in cash, the loan balance is measured atamortised cost using the effective interest rate method where the impact of discounting is material.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in profit or loss when there is obMective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Advances that are prepayments of future venue hire and do not permit the repayment of the principal in cash are recognised at cost as prepayments in venue advances and prepayments.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Financial Instruments Classes of financial instruments The Group aggregates its financial instruments into classes based on their nature and characteristics.
The details of financial instruments by class are disclosed in note 21 to the accounts.
inancial assets The Group classies its financial assets into the following categories: cash and cash equivalents, loans and receivables and derivative assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The classication is determined by management upon initial recognition, and is based on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Financial assets are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether its financial assets are to be impaired.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement where there is obMective evidence of impairment.
Financial assets are derecognised in full or partly when the Groups rights to cash ows from the respective assets have e[pired or have been transferred and the Group has neither e[posure to the risks inherent in those assets nor entitlement to rewards from them.
Investments Investments in unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market but that are classied as available-for-sale financial assets and stated at fair value.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 21.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve with the e[ception of impairment losses, interest calculated using the effective interest method and foreign e[change gain and losses on monetary assets which are recognised directly in profit or loss.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassied to profit or loss.
Dividends on available for sale equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss when the Groups right to receive the dividends is established.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 70 Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements 2 Basis of accounting continued Cash anG cash eTuivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and on demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subMect to an insignicant risk of changes in value.
Cash and cash equivalents are measured at initial recognition at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition cash and cash equivalents are stated at fair value with all realised gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Cash Flow Statement.
Loans anG receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with [ed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
This category includes the following classes of financial assets: trade and other receivables and venue advances.
Loans and receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the income statement when there is obMective evidence that the asset is impaired.
The estimates are based on specic credit circumstances and the Groups historical bad receivables e[perience.
No interest is charged on the loans and receivables, due to either their short-term nature or specic arrangements in place, and hence the effective interest rate method is not applied.
'erivative assets A derivative is a financial instrument that changes its value in response to changes in underlying variable, requires no or little net initial investment and is settled at a future date.
Derivative assets are classied as at fair value through profit or loss.
Derivative assets are measured at initial recognition at fair value and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance date with the resulting gains and losses recognised in the income statement.
These derivatives are acquired in full compliance with the Groups risk management policies.
Financial liabilities The Group classies its financial liabilities into the following categories: written put options, bank borrowings, trade and other payables held at amortised cost and derivative liabilities through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
:ritten put options Any contract with a single or multiple settlement option that contains an obligation for the Group to purchase equity in asubsidiary for cash gives rise to a financial liability for the present value of the repurchase price.
An amount equal to the liability is recorded in equity on initial recognition of a written put option.
The liability is subsequently remeasured through the income statement.
Where considered significant, the Groups written put options are discounted to their appropriate value.
The unwinding of the discount is charged through the income statement over the period to e[ercise.
Bank borroZings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received.
Finance charges are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the e[tent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Where bank loans and overdrafts are deemed to be integral to the Groups cash management activities, they are presented within net cash and cash equivalents in the cash ow statement.
Loan and overdraft interest and associated costs that are considered to be nancing in nature are presented as nancing activities in the cash ow statement.
TraGe anG other payables Trade payables are measured at initial recognition at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Trade payables are derecognised in full when the Group is discharged from its obligation, it e[pires, is cancelled or replaced by a new liability with substantially modied terms.
Trade and other payables are short-term and there is no interest charged in connection with these, hence the effective interest method is not applied.
'erivative liabilities A derivative is a financial instrument that changes its value in response to changes in an underlying variable, requires no or little net initial investment and is settled at a future date.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2012 2 Basis of accounting continued Derivative liabilities are classied as fair value through profit or loss.
Derivative liabilities are measured at initial recognition at fair value and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance date with the resulting gains and losses recognised in the income statement.
eGge accounting The Groups activities e[pose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency e[change rates.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign e[change forward contracts to hedge these e[posures.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in the income statement depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates its derivative financial instruments as cash ow hedges.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not e[pected to be realised or settled within twelve months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with the risk management obMectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
At the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair values of cash ows of the hedged item.
Derivative instruments are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently measured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value ofderivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement, and is included in Finance income cost in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the income statement, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument e[pires or is sold, terminated, or e[ercised, or no longer qualies for hedge accounting.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer e[pected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Groups use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups financial policies.
Further details on these policies can be found in the Business review on pages 32 to 37. air values The fair value is dened as the amount at which a financial instrument could be e[changed in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties and is calculated by reference to market rates discounted to current value.
The Group determines the fair value of its financial instruments using market prices for quoted instruments and widely accepted valuation techniques for other instruments.
Valuation techniques include discounted cash ows, standard valuation models based on market parameters, dealer quotes for similar instruments and use of comparable arms length transactions.
Revenue Revenue represents the fair value of amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the ordinary course of business net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related ta[es.
Revenue is recognised on completion of an event.
Billings and cash received in advance, and directly attributable costs relating to future events are deferred.
The amounts so deferred are included in the balance sheet as deferred event income and prepaid event costs respectively.
Losses anticipated at the balance sheet date are provided in full.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 72 Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements 2 Basis of accounting continued Barter transactions Where barter transactions occur between advertising and e[hibition space and the revenue can be measured reliably, revenues and costs are recognised in the income statement.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after the share of results of associates and profit or loss on disposal of Group undertakings and before investment income and finance costs.
Taxation The ta[ e[pense represents the sum of ta[ currently payable and deferred ta[.
The current ta[ is based on the ta[able profit for the year using the ta[ rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Ta[able profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it e[cludes items of income or e[pense that are ta[able or deductible in other years and it further e[cludes items that are never ta[able or deductible.
Deferred ta[ is the ta[ e[pected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets andliabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding ta[ bases used in the computation of ta[able profit, and isaccounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred ta[ liabilities are generally recognised for all ta[able temporary differences and deferred ta[ assets are recognised only to the e[tent that it is probable that ta[able profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that does not affect the ta[ profit or the accounting profit.
Deferred ta[ liabilities are recognised for ta[able temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates and interests in Moint ventures, e[cept where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying value of deferred ta[ assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the e[tent that it is no longer probable that sufficient ta[able profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred ta[ is calculated at the ta[ rates that are e[pected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred ta[ is charged or credited in the income statement, e[cept where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred ta[ is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred ta[ assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current ta[ assets against current ta[ liabilities and when they relate to income ta[es levied by the same ta[ation authority and the Group intends to settle its current ta[ assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of e[change at the date of the transaction or their contractual rate where applicable.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are retranslated at the rates of e[change prevailing at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rate prevailing at the date the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Gains and losses arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in income for the period.
E[change differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in income for the period e[cept for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains or losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any e[change component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
Details of the Groups accounting policies for forward contracts and options are included in the policy on derivative financial instruments.
On consolidation, the results of overseas operations are translated at the average rates of e[change during the period and their balance sheets at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Income and e[pense items are translated at the average e[change rates for the period, unless e[change rates uctuate signicantly during the period, in which case the e[change rates at the date of transaction are used.
E[change differences arising are classied as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as e[pense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Under the e[emption permitted from IAS 21 the effects of changes in foreign e[change rates, cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations prior to 1 October 2004 have been treated as ]ero.
Consequently, any gain or loss on disposal will e[clude translation differences that arose prior to 1 October 2004.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 73 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2012 2 Basis of accounting continued Goodwill and fair value adMustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Employee Share Trust The financial statements include the assets and liabilities of the Employee Share Trust ESOT.
Shares in the Company held by the ESOT have been valued at cost and are held in equity.
The costs of administration of the ESOT are written off to profit or loss as incurred.
Where such shares are subsequently sold, any net consideration received is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
Share-based payments The Group has applied IFRS 2 share-based payment.
IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
These are measured at fair value e[cluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is e[pensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adMusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using a Black-Scholes model.
The e[pected life used in the model has been adMusted, for the effects of non-transferability, e[ercise restrictions and behavioural considerations based on managements best estimate.
Leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
Benets received as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straightline basis over the lease term.
Critical accounting Mudgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, the following Mudgments and assumptions have been made by management and have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements or have the most risk of causing a material adMustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the ne[t financial year: Impairment of gooGZill anG intangible assets Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of cashgenerating units to which goodwill or intangible assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires an estimation of future cash ows e[pected from the cash-generating unit to perpetuity and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The period used in the calculation is based on managements average e[pectation of the period over which the value will be derived from the cash-generating units.
The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets at 30 September 2012 is 76.3 million and 54.7 million respectively.
AcTuireG intangible assets The valuation of acquired intangible assets requires management to estimate the net present value of the additional future cash ows arising from customer relationships, trademarks and licences and visitor databases to determine the value of those intangible assets.
This involves estimating the period over which these intangible assets affect future cash ows.
Intangible asset useful economic lives The life of an intangible asset is estimated by management based on the e[pected period over which cash ows generated from that asset will arise.
The amortisation charge reected in the financial statements is directly impacted by the estimation of useful lives by Management.
Share-baseG payments The Group makes share-based payments to certain employees.
These payments are measured at their estimated fair value at the date of grant, calculated using an appropriate option pricing model.
The fair value determined at the grant date is e[pensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The key assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the options are the discount rate, the Groups share price volatility, dividend yield, risk free rate of return, and e[pected option lives.
Management regularly performs a true-up of theestimate of the number of shares that are e[pected to vest this is dependent on the anticipated number of leavers.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 74 Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements 2 Basis of accounting continued Taxation Being a multinational Group with ta[ affairs in many geographic locations inherently leads to a ta[ structure which makes the degree of estimation and Mudgement more challenging.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and is often dependent on the efficiency of legal processes.
Such issues can take several years to resolve.
The Group takes a considered view of unresolved issues, however the inherent uncertainty regarding these items means that the eventual resolution could differ signicantly from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and future cash ows.
3 Segmental information IFRS 8 introduces the term Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
The Senior Management Board comprising the E[ecutive Directors Russell Taylor Chief E[ecutive officer, Neil Jones Financial Director, Edward Strachan E[ecutive Director, Stephen.
een, Ale[ander Shtalenkov, Andy Braid, Colette Tebbutt and Su]anne.
ing is considered to be the CODM.
ITEs reportable segments are strategic business units that are based in different geographic locations, predominantly in thedeveloping and emerging markets.
Each business unit is managed separately and has a different marketing strategy as determined by the local management.
The products and services offered by each business unit are identical across the Group.
ITE Group evaluates performance on the basis of profit or loss from operations before ta[ e[pense not including non-recurring gains and losses and foreign e[change gains and losses.
The revenue and profit before ta[ation are attributable to the Groups one principal activity, the organisation of trade e[hibitions, conferences and related activities and can be analysed by geographic segment as follows.
2 Included in non-current assets are all non-current assets other than venue advances and other loans, deferred ta[ assets and financial instruments.
The revenue in the year of 172.3 million includes 0.5 million 2011: 0.5 million of barter sales.
4 Investment revenue 2012 2011 000 000 Interest receivable from bank deposits 951 437 Interest receivable from Inland Revenue repayments 12 Gain on revaluation of equity options 1,641 Gain on cash ow hedges 148 14 Gain on settlement of contingent consideration 453 119 3,193 582 5 Finance costs 2012 2011 000 000 Interest on overdrafts 660 741 Bank charges 426 341 Loss on e[ercise of Ekin Fuar put option 93 269 Loss on settlement of contingent consideration 104 Interest payable to Inland Revenue 6 Loss on cash ow hedges 42 32 Imputed interest charge on discounted put option liabilities 460 1,687 1,487 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 76 Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements 6 profit on ordinary activities before taxation profit on ordinary activities before ta[ation is stated after charging crediting : 2012 2011 000 000 Staff costs note 7 31,764 29,115 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 14 1,113 633 Amortisation of intangible assets note 13 13,508 11,014 Impairment of goodwill 130 profit loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 23 35 Operating lease rentals other note 25 2,304 3,623 Gain loss on derivative financial instruments cash ow hedges notes 4 and 5 106 18 Gain loss on derivative financial instruments put options notes 4 and 5 1,641 269 Foreign e[change gain loss on operating activities 259 208 Auditors remuneration 2012 2011 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 240 207 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 75 73 Other services pursuant to legislation Interim review 34 34 1 Other services 25 75 Ta[ services 9 383 389 1 Other services related to risk assurance reporting 2011: due diligence.
Reconciliation of headline pre-tax profit to profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2012 2011 000 000 profit on ordinary activities before ta[ation 40,474 39,094 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 13,508 10,717 Loss on e[ercise of Ekin Fuar put option 93 269 Gain on revaluation of put option liabilities 1,641 Unwind of discount of put option liabilities 460 profit on sale of investments 78 Gain on settlement of contingent consideration 453 119 Loss on settlement of contingent consideration 104 Transaction costs completed and pending 640 1,180 Impairment of goodwill 130 Headline pre-ta[ profit 53,003 51,375 7 Staff costs 2012 2011 Number Number The average monthly number of employees including Directors was: Administration 386 309 Technical and sales 658 625 1,044 934 Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 000 000 Wages and salaries 25,210 23,697 Social security costs 4,337 3,683 Other pension costs 70 39 Share-based payments 2,147 1,696 31,764 29,115 Details of audited Directors remuneration are shown in the Report on remuneration on pages 52 to 58.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 77 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2012 8 Tax on profit on ordinary activities Analysis of ta[ charge for the year: 2012 2011 000 000 Group ta[ation on current year profit U. corporation ta[ on profit for the year 923 3,294 AdMustment to U. ta[ in respect of previous years 603 768 320 2,526 Overseas ta[ation current year 9,335 8,569 Overseas ta[ation previous years 422 442 9,757 8,127 Current ta[ 10,077 10,653 Deferred ta[ Origination and reversal of timing differences: Current year 2,134 2,362 Prior year 1 7,943 8,292 The ta[ charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 profit on ordinary activities before ta[ 40,474 39,094 profit on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate of corporation ta[ in the U. of 25% 2011: 27% 10,119 10,555 Effects of: E[penses not deductible for ta[ purposes 1,388 963 Deferred ta[ assets recognised not recognised 76 39 Withholding ta[ and other irrecoverable ta[es 526 333 AdMustments to ta[ charge in respect of previous years 131 1,210 Deferred ta[ provision in respect of proposed dividends from overseas subsidiaries 200 13 Effect of different ta[ rates of subsidiaries operating in other Murisdictions 4,047 2,401 Associate ta[ 36 7,943 8,292 2012 2011 000 000 Ta[ relating to components of comprehensive income: Cash ow gains losses current 230 225 Cash ow gains losses deferred 1,138 326 1,368 551 Ta[ relating to amounts credited charged to equity: Share options current 364 127 Share options deferred 49 5 Goodwill on historic acquisition deferred 1,390 1,075 132 2,443 683 During the year the Group recognised directly in equity a deferred ta[ liability relating to the goodwill arising on an historic acquisition.
This deferred ta[ liability had not been recognised on transition to IFRS in 2005.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 78 Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements 9 Dividends 2012 2011 000 000 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2011 of 4.2p 2010: 4.0p per ordinary share 10,109 9,537 Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2012 of 2.1p 2011: 1.9p per ordinary share 5,111 4,568 15,220 14,105 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2012 of 4.4p 2011: 4.2p per ordinary share 10,714 10,100 The proposed final dividend is subMect to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Under the terms of the trust deed dated 20 October 1998, the ITE Group Employees Share Trust, which holds 5,366,722 2011: 8,102,687 ordinary shares representing 2.2% of the Companys called up ordinary share capital, has agreed to waive all dividends due to it each year.
10 Earnings per share The calculation of basic, diluted and headline diluted earnings per share is based on the following earnings and the numbers of shares: 2012 2011 Number Number of shares of shares 000 000 Weighted average number of shares: For basic earnings per share 242,124 239,635 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares 3,040 5,132 For diluted and headline diluted earnings per share 245,164 244,767 Basic and diluted earnings per share The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are based on the profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent of 31.5 million 2011: 30.7 million.
Basic and diluted earnings per share were 13.0p and 12.8p respectively 2011: 12.8p and 12.6p respectively.
Headline diluted earnings per share Headline diluted earnings per share is intended to provide a consistent measure of Group earnings on a year-on-year basis and is 16.9p per share 2011: 16.6p.
Headline basic earnings per share is 17.1 per share 2011: 17.0p.
2012 2011 000 000 profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 31,486 30,724 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 13,508 10,717 Ta[ effect of amortisation of acquired intangible assets 2,651 2,358 Gain on revaluation of equity options 1,641 Unwind of discount of put option liabilities 460 profit and loss on sale of investments 78 Transaction costs 640 1,180 Loss on e[ercise of Ekin Fuar put option 93 269 Loss on settlement of contingent consideration 104 Gain on settlement of contingent consideration 453 119 Impairment of goodwill 130 Ta[ effect of other adMustments 15 27 Headline earnings for the financial year after ta[ation 41,379 40,620 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 79 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2012 11 Goodwill Goodwill Group 000 Cost At 1 October 2010 50,584 Additions through business combinations 22,389 Foreign e[change 2,159 At 1 October 2011 70,814 Additions through business combinations 7,295 Foreign e[change 1,670 At 30 September 2012 76,439 Provision for impairment At 1 October 2010 Impairment 130 At 1 October 2011 130 Impairment At 30 September 2012 130 Net book value At 30 September 2012 76,309 At 30 September 2011 70,684 12 Goodwill acquired through business combinations Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash-generating units that are e[pected to benefit from that business combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 U. and Western Europe 7,692 14,920 Central Asia and Caucasus 6,680 7,583 Russia 41,446 37,505 Eastern and Southern Europe 18,296 9,505 Rest of the World 2,195 1,171 76,309 70,684 The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the cash-generating units are determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and e[pected changes to cash ows during the period.
Management estimates discount rates that reect the current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specic to the cash-generating units.
The growth rates are based on management forecasts.
The Group prepares cash ow forecasts based upon the most recent financial plans approved by the Board and e[trapolates the planned cash ows.
Assumed growth rates based on GDP growth rates in the local markets and management Mudgements have been applied for the first three years beyond the detailed plans and a rate of between 1% and 8% is applied thereafter.
These rates do not e[ceed the average long-term growth rate for the businesses in the relevant markets.
The pre-ta[ discount rates applied to the cash-generating units are between 15% and 18%.
The calculation of value in use is most sensitive to the discount rate and growth rates used.
Management believes that no reasonable potential change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value to e[ceed its recoverable amount.
The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis taking into consideration the impact on key impairment test assumptions arising from a range of possible trading and economic scenarios.
The scenarios have been performed separately for each Cash Generating Unit with the sensitivities summarised as follows: An increase in the discount rate by 1%.
A decrease of 5% on forecast cash ows over the term for all Cash Generating Units.
The sensitivity analysis shows that no impairment would result from either an increase in the discount rate or a decrease in forecast cash ows.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 80 Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements 12 Goodwill acquired through business combinations continued The principal acquisitions made during the year to 30 September 2012, accounted for under the acquisition method, were: Name of entity acquired Nature of entity acquired Date of acquisition Percentage acquired Assets of Autoe[po Portfolio of ten e[hibitions 2 December 2011 100% E[po.. LLP Portfolio of trade events 10 February 2012 100% Beaute[ Co LLC E[hibition organiser 3 April 2012 100% Assets of Unitech Portfolio of two e[hibitions 2 May 2012 100% Assets of Conventions & Fairs Portfolio of si[ e[hibitions 24 May 2012 100% Jacket Required Limited E[hibition organiser 13 July 2012 100% Details of the aggregate net assets acquired as adMusted from book to fair value, and the attributable goodwill are presented as follows: Acquisition of 100% of Autoexpo assets Book value AdMustments Fair value 000 000 000 Net assets acquired Tangible [ed assets 31 31 Intangible [ed assets trademarks 1,679 1,679 Intangible [ed assets customer relationships 1,340 1,340 Trade and other receivables Cash and cash equivalents Trade and other payables Deferred ta[ liability Net assets acquired 31 3,019 3,050 Goodwill arising on acquisition 1,466 Total cost of acquisition 4,516 satisfied by: Net cash paid 4,516 4,516 Net cash outow arising on acquisition: Net cash paid 4,516 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 4,516 The values used in accounting for the identiable assets and liabilities of these acquisitions are provisional in nature at the balance sheet date.
If necessary, adMustments will be made to these carrying values and the related goodwill, within twelve months of the acquisition date.
The goodwill arising on acquisition of 1.5 million represents the perceived value placed by the Group of having an established operating position in a new emerging market.
The acquired business organises e[hibitions in.
iev, predominantly in ITEs core market sectors of travel & tourism, building & construction, and oil & gas.
The goodwill and intangible assets are e[pected to qualify for ta[ deductions in Ukraine.
No deferred ta[ liabilities arise in relation to the acquired intangible assets.
Transaction costs relating to the above acquisition were 0.2 million.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 81 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2012 12 Goodwill acquired through business combinations continued The acquired business contributed 1.0 million to Group revenue and 0.1 million to profit before ta[ during the year.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 October 2011, the acquired business would have contributed 1.7 million to Group revenue and 0.3 million to profit before ta[.
Acquisition of 100% of Beautex Co LLC Book value AdMustments Fair value 000 000 000 Net assets acquired Intangible [ed assets trademarks 1,525 1,525 Intangible [ed assets customer relationships 2,709 2,709 Trade and other receivables Cash and cash equivalents Trade and other payables Deferred ta[ liability 1,059 1,059 Net assets acquired 3,175 3,175 Goodwill arising on acquisition 3,919 Total cost of acquisition 7,094 satisfied by: Net cash paid 4,562 Asset retained by vendor 434 Deferred consideration 2,098 7,094 Net cash outow arising on acquisition: Net cash paid 4,562 Asset retained by vendor 434 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 4,996 The values used in accounting for the identiable assets and liabilities of these acquisitions are provisional in nature at thebalance sheet date.
The goodwill arising on acquisition of 3.9 million represents significant e[pected synergies with other operations of the Group.
iev predominantly in the beauty and cosmetics sectors.
No recognised goodwill is e[pected to be deductible for income ta[ purposes.
Transaction costs relating to the above acquisition were 0.1 million.
The acquired business contributed 2.0 million to Group revenue and 0.9 million to profit before ta[ during the year.
Thecontribution would be unchanged if the business had been acquired on 1 October 2011.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 82 Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements 12 Goodwill acquired through business combinations continued Acquisition of 100% of Unitech assets Book value AdMustments Fair value 000 000 000 Net assets acquired Intangible [ed assets trademarks 330 330 Intangible [ed assets customer relationships 629 629 Trade and other receivables Cash and cash equivalents Trade and other payables Deferred ta[ liability Net assets acquired 959 959 Goodwill arising on acquisition 367 Total cost of acquisition 1,326 satisfied by: Net cash paid 1,326 1,326 Net cash outow arising on acquisition: Net cash paid 1,326 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 1,326 The values used in accounting for the identiable assets and liabilities of these acquisitions are provisional in nature at the balance sheet date.
The goodwill arising on acquisition of 0.4 million represents the perceived value placed by the Group of having an established operating position in a new emerging market.
The acquired business organises e[hibitions in Mumbai and Chennai, predominantly in ITEs core market sectors of building & construction.
The goodwill and intangible assets are e[pected to qualify for ta[ deductions in India.
The acquired business contributed 0.1 million to Group revenue and 0.1 million to profit before ta[ during the year.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 October 2011, the acquired business would have contributed 0.3 million to Group revenue and 0.2 million to profit before ta[.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 83 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2012 12 Goodwill acquired through business combinations continued Acquisition of 100% of Convention & Fairs assets Book value AdMustments Fair value 000 000 000 Net assets acquired Intangible [ed assets trademarks 321 321 Intangible [ed assets customer relationships 234 234 Trade and other receivables Cash and cash equivalents Trade and other payables Deferred ta[ liability Net assets acquired 555 555 Goodwill arising on acquisition 683 Total cost of acquisition 1,238 satisfied by: Net cash paid 1,238 1,238 Net cash outow arising on acquisition: Net cash paid 1,238 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 1,238 The values used in accounting for the identiable assets and liabilities of these acquisitions are provisional in nature at the balance sheet date.
The goodwill arising on acquisition of 0.7 million represents the perceived value placed by the Group of having an established operating position in a new emerging market.
The acquired business organises e[hibitions across India, predominantly in ITEs core market sectors of building & construction.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 October 2011, the acquired business would have contributed 0.6 million to Group revenue and 0.2 million to profit before ta[.
Acquisition of 100% of Jacket Required Limited Book value AdMustments Fair value 000 000 000 Net assets acquired Intangible [ed assets trademarks 425 425 Intangible [ed assets customer relationships 149 149 Trade and other receivables 211 211 Cash and cash equivalents 131 131 Trade and other payables 302 302 Deferred ta[ liability 149 149 Net assets acquired 40 425 465 Goodwill arising on acquisition 614 Total cost of acquisition 1,079 satisfied by: Net cash paid 599 Contingent consideration 480 1,079 Net cash outow arising on acquisition: Net cash paid 599 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 131 468 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 84 Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements 12 Goodwill acquired through business combinations continued The values used in accounting for the identiable assets and liabilities of these acquisitions are provisional in nature at the balance sheet date.
The goodwill arising on acquisition of 0.6 million represents significant e[pected synergies with other operations of the Group.
The acquired business organises e[hibitions in the United.
ingdom, predominantly in the fashion sector.
The acquired business contributed 0.2 million to Group revenue and 0.1 million to profit before ta[ during the year.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 October 2011, the acquired business would have contributed 0.4 million to Group revenue and 0.2 million to profit before ta[.
Contingent consideration will be based on a multiple of the results of Jacket Required for the years ended 31 May 2013 and 31May 2014.
The payment will be made in two stages with the final payment e[pected to be paid by 31 July 2014.
The Groups best estimate at date of acquisition was 0.5 million.
The contingent consideration is based on show profits and is unlimited.
The fair value of the acquired receivables is equivalent to the gross contractual receivable and estimated future cash ows arising.
Other acquisitions On 10 February 2012 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of E[po.. LLP for consideration of 650,000 410,000, some of which was paid in April 2012.
The assets acquired comprise a small number of trade events in.
No goodwill arose on the acquisition of E[po.. LLP.
During the year the Group updated its provisional acquisition accounting on em Fuar to account for pre-acquisition liabilities not previously identied.
This resulted in an increase in goodwill of 0.3 million.
On 7 August 2012, Newe[ Marketing Limited, a subsidiary of the Group purchased a further 12.5% of the share capital of Ekin for 1.15 million 739,000, taking the Groups shareholding to 100%.
This transaction has resulted in a decrease in the Groups non-controlling interest in Ekin as can be seen in note 24.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 85 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2012 13 Other intangible assets continued The additions to customer relationships and trademarks and licences through business combinations of 9.8 million relate to the purchase of Autoe[po, Beaute[ Co LLC, Unitech, Conventions & Fairs and Jacket Required.
The carrying amounts of these intangibles at 30 September 2012 were 3.3 million, 3.7 million, 0.9 million, 0.6 million and 0.5 million respectively.
The intangibles acquired during the year are amortised in accordance with the Group amortisation policy for intangibles as detailed above.
14 Property, plant and equipment Leasehold land and Plant and buildings equipment Total 000 000 000 Cost At 1 October 2010 1,147 3,408 4,555 Additions 22 893 915 Additions through business combinations 45 45 Disposals 237 237 At 1 October 2011 1,169 4,109 5,278 Additions 549 1,533 2,082 Additions through business combinations 31 31 Disposals 294 1,132 1,426 At 30 September 2012 1,424 4,541 5,965 Depreciation At 1 October 2010 658 2,156 2,814 Charge for the year 78 555 633 Disposals 237 237 Foreign e[change 12 12 At 1 October 2011 736 2,462 3,198 Charge for the year 166 947 1,113 Disposals 48 644 692 Foreign e[change At 30 September 2012 854 2,765 3,619 Net book value At 30 September 2012 570 1,776 2,346 At 30 September 2011 433 1,647 2,080 15 Subsidiaries A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 5 to the Companys separate financial statements.
16 Interests in associates 2012 000 Aggregated amounts relating to associates Total assets 125 Total liabilities 101 24 Share of revenue 1,618 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 86 Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements 16 Interests in associates Included within total assets is goodwill of nil 2011: nil.
Scoop Summit Total 000 000 000 At 1 October 2011 100 100 Reclassied to interests in associates 400 400 Share of results of associate 146 555 701 Dividends received 100 555 655 Additional investment 50 50 At 30 September 2012 196 400 596 On 12 September 2011, the Group purchased 40% of Scoop International Fashion Limited for 100,000.
This has been accounted for using the equity method, recognised initially at cost.
The carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the ITEs share of the profit or loss of the associate after the date of acquisition.
ITEs share of the profit or loss of the associate is recognised in the income statement.
Distributions received from the associate also reduce the carrying amount of the investment.
The Group has written a put option over the remaining 60% of Scoop International Fashion Limited.
On 8 February 2011, the Group purchased a 10% share in Summit Trade Events Limited for 400,000.
During the year theGroup reviewed the accounting treatment for its investment in Summit Trade Events Limited and determined that it had significant inuence through a seat on the Board.
As a result, the investment has been reclassied from investments tointerests in associates and is accounted for using the equity method.
The carrying amount is increased or decreased torecognise the ITEs share of the profit or loss of the associate after the date of acquisition.
ITEs share of the profit or lossof the associate is recognised in the income statement.
The Group has written put and call options over the remaining 90% of Summit Trade Events Limited.
17 Current assets and non-current assets 2012 2011 000 000 Trade and other receivables Trade receivables 36,659 35,299 Other receivables 1,972 2,272 Venue advances and prepayments 4,913 6,015 Prepayments and accrued income 6,776 8,037 50,320 51,623 Taxation prepayments Ta[ation prepayments 1,377 923 Ta[ation prepayments relate to overseas subsidiaries and are available for offset against future ta[ liabilities.
Cash and cash equivalents 2012 2011 000 000 Cash at bank and in hand 41,734 33,961 Venue advances and other loans non-current Venue advances and other loans non-current 4,011 4,043 The cash at bank and in hand comprises cash held by the Group and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying value of these assets appro[imates their fair value.
The cash balance is represented by 9.1 million of Sterling, 10.4 million of Euros, 4.0 million of US Dollars, 7.6 million of Rubles and 10.6 million of other currencies.
Surplus funds are placed on short-term deposit with oating interest rates.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 87 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2012 17 Current assets and non-current assets continued The venue advances and other loans of 4.0 million due after one year are all due within five years 2011: 4.0 million due after more than five years.
The venue loans repayable by cash are measured at fair value.
The venue prepayments are held at cost.
All venue advances are stated net of allowance for doubtful receivables.
The venue advances are denominated primarily in either Euros or US Dollars and are analysed as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 Venue loans Denominated in US Dollars 1,357 2,049 Denominated in other currencies 2,187 818 3,544 2,867 Venue prepayments Denominated in Euros 3,402 5,640 Denominated in US Dollars 930 1,194 Denominated in other currencies 1,078 357 5,410 7,191 Total venue loans and prepayments 8,954 10,058 18 Bank borrowings Bank overdraft The bank overdrafts are all repayable on demand.
Of the total overdraft, 13.3 million 2011: nil is denominated in Sterling, 2.1 million 2011: 2.4 million is denominated in US Dollars, and nil 2011: 11.5 million is denominated in Euros.
The Euro and US Dollar overdraft are taken out to act as a partial hedge against U. monetary assets in those currencies.
The overdrafts have been secured by a guarantee between a number of Group companies.
The Directors estimate the carrying value of the overdrafts appro[imates their fair value.
At 30 September 2012 the Group had nil 2011: 2.1 million of gross undrawn committed overdraft facilities.
Following a renancing of the Groups loan facilities on 19 November 2012, the Groups overdraft facilities were increased by 5 million to 20 million.
The borrowings are arranged at oating interest rates, thus e[posing the Group to interest rate risk.
During the year ended 30 September 2012 the overdrafts attracted interest at the base rate plus a margin of 2.0%.
The average interest rate on the bank overdrafts appro[imated 2.1% throughout the year 2011: 2.5%.
Following the renancing of the Groups loan facilities on 19 November 2012, the margin on the overdraft was reduced to 1.75%.
Bank loan During the year ended 30 September 2012 the Group utilised a 15.0 million 2011: 15.0 million multi-currency committed bank facility that provided revolving credit facilities through to 30 November 2012.
Drawdowns bear interest at interbank rates of interest plus a margin of 2.5%.
A number of Group companies acted as guarantors to this facility.
At 30 September 2012 the Group had 1.7 million 2011: 0.5 million of gross undrawn committed loan facility.
On 19 November 2012 the Group renanced its loan obligations under the e[isting facility.
The revised facility is a 10.0 million multi-currency committed bank facility that provides revolving credit facilities through to 1 July 2015.
Drawdowns bear interest at interbank rates of interest plus a margin of 2.0%.
A number of Group companies continue to act as guarantors to this facility.
19 Trade and other payables 2012 2011 000 000 Trade payables 1,604 879 Ta[ation and social security 1,650 3,169 Other payables 2,339 3,104 Accruals 8,232 8,475 Deferred consideration 381 Contingent consideration 480 4,139 14,686 19,766 Deferred income 69,612 67,867 Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
TheDirectors consider that the carrying value of trade payables appro[imates their fair value.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 88 Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements 20 Provisions National Insurance on share options Leases Total 000 000 000 At 1 October 2011 1,024 407 1,431 Charged credited to income statement 303 28 275 Utilised in the period 520 520 At 30 September 2012 807 379 1,186 Included in current liabilities 589 Included in non-current liabilities 597 1,186 National Insurance on share options is calculated by reference to the employers National Insurance cost on the potential gain based on the difference between the e[ercise price and share price for those share options where the share price e[ceeds the e[ercise price at 30 September 2012.
The lease provision relates to the spreading of a reduced rent period over the full period of the lease.
21 Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities Details of the accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and e[penses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset and financial liability are disclosed in the accounting policies note on pages 67 to 75.
Categories of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are classied according to the following categories in the table below.
The amounts disclosed are the contractual undiscounted net cash ows.
Financial assets 2012 2011 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 41,734 33,961 Loans and receivables: Trade receivables 36,659 35,299 Other receivables 1,972 2,272 Venue loans 3,544 2,867 Derivative financial instruments designated cash ow hedge 4,215 300 Derivative financial instruments equity option assets 52 88,176 74,699 Financial liabilities 2012 2011 000 000 Bank overdraft 15,418 13,948 Bank loan 13,306 14,483 Amortised cost: Trade payables 1,604 879 Other payables 2,339 3,104 Deferred consideration 381 Contingent consideration 480 4,139 Derivative financial instruments put option liabilities 8,982 12,642 Derivative financial instruments designated cash ow hedge 977 42,510 50,172 During the year the put option liabilities and reserves relating to Scoop and Summit where the Group does not already own a maMority stake have been reversed.
The put option liability remaining at year end relates entirely to the put option over the 40% of em Fuar that the Group does not already own.
The liability has been discounted at a rate of 5% and the undiscounted amount is 9.4 million.
The equity option asset of 0.1 million relates to the fair value of the call option held over Summit, which is accounted for at fair value through profit and loss.
The options held in respect of Scoop are valued at nil.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 89 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2012 21 Financial instruments continued Maturity of financial instruments In 2012, 4.5 million of the em Fuar put option had a maturity of one year or less, with the remaining 4.5 million having a maturity of more than one year.
Out of the total of 4.3 million of derivative financial assets, 2.1 million had a maturity of one year or less and 2.2 million of one year or more.
In 2011, of the derivative financial liabilities, Ekin Fuar put option 0.7 million and an element of the derivative financial instruments 0.2 million had a maturity of one year or less.
The remaining derivative financial liabilities of 12.7 million had a maturity of one year or more.
Out of the total of 0.3 million of derivative financial assets, 0.2 million had a maturity of one year or less and 0.1 million of one year or more.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements appro[imate to their fair value due to the short maturity of the instruments.
Derivative assets 2012 2011 000 2012 000 2011 Contractual 000 Contractual 000 amounts Fair value amounts Fair value Foreign currency forward contracts 81,213 4,215 24,586 300 Equity option assets 1,669 52 Derivative liabilities 2012 2011 000 2012 000 2011 Contractual 000 Contractual 000 amounts Fair value amounts Fair value Foreign currency forward contracts 57,789 977 Put option liabilities 8,982 8,892 12,642 12,642 The Group seeks to minimise the effects of foreign currency risks by using derivative financial instruments to hedge the risk e[posures.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board.
Compliance with policies and e[posure limits is reviewed by the Board on a continuous basis.
The Group does not enter into financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
Fair value hierarchy The following table categorises the Groups financial instruments which are held at fair value into one of three levels to reect the degree to which observable inputs are used in determining their fair values: Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 000 000 000 000 Assets measured at fair value Foreign currency forward contracts 4,215 4,215 Equity options 52 52 Total 4,267 4,215 52 Liabilities measured at fair value Foreign currency forward contracts Put options 8,982 8,982 Total 8,982 8,982 Level 1: Fair values measured using quoted prices unadMusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Fair value measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
Financial risk management In the course of its business, the Group is e[posed to a number of financial risks: market risk including foreign currency and interest rate, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk.
This note presents the Groups e[posure to each of the above risks.
The Groups obMectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risks can be found in the Business Review on pages 32 to 37.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 90 Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements 21 Financial instruments continued The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Board has established policies to identify and analyse risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in foreign e[change rates and interest rates will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The obMective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk e[posures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
The Groups activities e[pose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency e[change rates and interest rates.
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments to manage its e[posure to foreign currency risk.
Market risk e[posures are measured using sensitivity analysis.
Foreign currency risk management The Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies, hence, e[posures to e[change rate uctuations arise.
E[change rate e[posures are managed within approved policy parameters utilising forward-plus or forward foreign e[change contracts.
The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: Financial assets 2012 2011 000 000 EUR 35,094 31,616 GBP 11,163 7,359 USD 5,182 4,707 RUB 16,801 17,163 Other 19,936 13,954 88,176 74,799 Financial liabilities 2012 2011 000 000 EUR 13,427 12,934 GBP 15,137 2,660 USD 2,068 3,511 RUB 1,242 1,427 Other 10,636 15,157 42,510 35,689 Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis below details the impact of a 10% strengthening in the Groups significant currencies against Sterling, applied to the net monetary assets or liabilities of the Group.
USD EUR RUB Other 2012 000 Monetary assets 5,182 35,094 16,801 19,936 Monetary liabilities 2,068 13,427 1,242 10,636 Net monetary assets 3,114 21,667 15,559 9,300 Currency Impact profit before ta[ gain loss 4 251 1,498 787 Equity gain loss 308 1,916 58 143 2011 000 Monetary assets 4,707 31,616 17,163 13,954 Monetary liabilities 3,511 12,934 1,427 15,157 Net monetary assets 1,196 18,682 15,736 1,203 Currency Impact profit before ta[ gain loss 4 234 1,476 105 Equity gain loss 116 1,634 98 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 91 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2012 21 Financial instruments continued The following significant e[change rates versus Sterling applied during the year and in the prior year: Average Reporting date 2012 2011 2012 2011 EUR 1.21 1.15 1.25 1.15 USD 1.58 1.61 1.61 1.56 RUB 48.85 47.04 50.51 49.86 Forward foreign exchange contracts As at 30 September 2012 the notional amounts of outstanding foreign currency forward contracts that the Group has committed to amounted to 81.2 million 2011: 82.4 million.
These arrangements are designed to address significant e[change e[posures for the ne[t 36 months and are renewed on a revolving basis as required, subMect to not committing the Group to less than si[ months or more than 36 months in the future.
At 30 September 2012, the fair value of these derivatives is estimated to be a net asset of appro[imately 4.2 million 2011:net liability of 0.7 million.
These amounts are based on market valuations.
The Group has taken out foreign currency overdrafts in Euros and US Dollars to act as a natural hedge against certaincurrency trade receivable balances.
These borrowings have not been designated as hedging instruments by management.
All foreign e[change movements on these borrowings and trade receivables are recognised directly in the income statement.
Interest rate risk management As the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets, other than cash, the Groups income and operating cash ows aresubstantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
The Group is e[posed to interest rate risk through its borrowings at oating interest rates.
This risk is managed by the Group by maintaining an appropriate level of oating interest rate borrowings.
The Groups e[posures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk section of this note.
Interest structure of financial liabilities 2012 2011 000 000 Financial liabilities at variable rates: Bank overdraft 15,418 13,948 Bank loan 13,306 14,483 The following average interest rates applied during the year and in the prior year: Bank loan Bank overdraft 2012 2011 2012 2011 % % % % GBP 1.4 EUR 2.2 3.8 2.6 2.5 USD 2.1 2.5 Average interest rate applicable to cash balances were 3.7% in 2012 and 5.3% in 2011.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 92 Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements 21 Financial instruments continued Interest rate sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the e[posure to interest rates for financial assets and financial liabilities at the balance sheet date.
With all other variables held constant the table below demonstrates the sensitivity to a 1% change in interest rates applied to the maMor currencies of net variable rate asset liabilities.
1% is the sensitivity rate that represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, venue advances and derivative financial instruments.
These represent the Groups ma[imum e[posure to credit risk.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade and other receivables.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults.
The Groups obMective is to ensure all customers have paid before any service is provided to them.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated.
The ageing prole of the Groups trade receivables and the details of the Groups allowances for doubtful receivables can be seen below.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments arises due to where the liquid funds are held.
The territories in which ITE operates do not always have banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies such as Moodys and Fitch.
The Group aims to minimise the e[posure to credit risk by minimising the level of cash held in such banks.
The Groups e[posure and credit ratings of its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved financial institutions.
Credit rating of financial assets excluding loans and receivables and derivative assets 2012 2011 000 000 Investments grade A and above 25,589 20,548 Investments grade B and above 12,192 11,631 Investments grade C or below or not rated 3,953 1,782 41,734 33,961 The source of the credit ratings is Moodys and Fitch.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 93 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2012 21 Financial instruments continued Ageing prole of trade receivables Show start date Contract terms 2012 2011 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 Not past due 34,392 32,164 15,881 17,695 Past due 130 days 1,666 2,687 10,419 11,394 Past due 3160 days 62 61 4,421 2,490 Past due 6190 days 7 20 1,828 1,439 Past due 91120 days 108 12 2,231 1,213 Past due more than 120 days 424 355 1,879 1,068 36,659 35,299 36,659 35,299 Management review debtors ageing on a contractual basis and also based on when an event has been held.
The Group raise invoices on events using stage payments.
Any overdue amounts, after the stage payment due date, are reviewed and chased.
Management also review the debts due based on when an event has taken place, as this is typically when the service is provided.
Both measures are included in the table above as both are used by management to manage outstanding debts.
The trade receivables amounts presented in the Balance Sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on prior e[perience, specic credit issues and their assessment of the current economic environment.
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers spread across diverse industries and geographical areas and the Groups e[posure to credit risk is inuenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The demographics of the Groups customer base, including default risk of the industry and country, in which the customers operate, has less of an inuence on credit risk.
The Group establishes an allowance for doubtful debts that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade receivables when there is obMective evidence that the debt will not be collected in full.
The allowance is recognised and measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of future cash ows.
Where material, it is discounted at the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The main component of this allowance is a specic loss component that relates to individually significant e[posure on shows which have taken place but the debt has not been collected in full.
This allowance is determined by reference to the specic circumstances of each show and past e[perience.
The details of the movement in the allowance for doubtful receivables are shown below.
Allowance for doubtful receivables 2012 2011 000 000 At 1 October 660 500 Allowances made in the period 368 173 Amounts used and reversal of unused amounts 553 13 475 660 Ageing of impaired receivables 2012 2011 000 000 Past due 03 months 139 92 Past due 36 months 74 90 Past due more than 6 months 262 478 475 660 An allowance for doubtful receivables relating to venue loans of 0.3 million is held 2011: 0.5 million.
During the period 0.2 million was released 2011: nil.
No additional allowances were made in the period.
Liquidity risk management Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its obligations as they fall due.
Such risk may result from inadequate market depth or disruption or renancing problems.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors.
They have built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Group manages liquidity risk by ensuring continuity of funding for operational needs through cash deposits and debt facilities as appropriate.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 94 Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements 21 Financial instruments continued Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while ma[imising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents, bank overdraft and bank loan which is disclosed in note 17 and note 18 and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed innote 23 and in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
22 Deferred tax Accelerated ta[ Ta[ Provisions Share-based Repatriation depreciation Intangibles losses and accrual Hedges payments of profit Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 1 October 2010 444 4,797 847 157 726 612 4,437 Transfers 159 2,003 175 41 78 13 2,361 Credit to income 326 326 Charge to OCI 5 5 Credit to equity 9,235 9,235 Acquisition of subsidiary 25 25 E[change At 1 October 2011 285 12,029 175 831 169 809 625 10,955 Transfers 38 38 Charge credit to income 111 2,912 178 288 1 200 2,134 Charge to OCI 442 1,832 49 1,439 Charge to equity 1,138 1,138 Acquisition of subsidiary 1,208 1,208 E[change 3 10 7 At 30 September 2012 46 12,157 495 969 759 825 12,651 Certain deferred ta[ assets and liabilities have been offset in the above table.
The following is the analysis of deferred ta[ balances for financial reporting purposes: 2012 2011 000 000 Deferred ta[ liabilities 14,414 13,067 Deferred ta[ assets 1,763 2,112 12,651 10,955 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused ta[ losses of 3.5 million 2011: 3.0 million available for offset against future profits.
No deferred ta[ asset has been recognised in respect of these losses in either year due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
These losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred ta[ liabilities have not been recognised was 39.7 million 2011: 13.0 million.
No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
23 Share capital 2012 2011 000 000 Authorised 375,000,000 ordinary shares of 1 penny each 2011: 375,000,000 3,750 3,750 Allotted and fully-paid 248,863,407 ordinary shares of 1 penny each 2011: 248,568,749 2,489 2,486 During the year, the Company allotted 294,658 2011: 256,547 ordinary shares of 1 penny each pursuant to the e[ercise of share options.
No 2011: nil ordinary shares were issued in respect of Directors remuneration.
The total consideration for the shares issued was 72,097 2011: 38,478.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 95 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2012 23 Share capital continued The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to [ed income.
At the E[traordinary General Meeting held on 17 November 1998, shareholders approved the establishment of the ITE Group Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT.
The terms of the ESOT allow the trustees to transfer shares to employees who e[ercise options under the Companys Share Option Schemes, to grant options to employees and to accumulate shares by buying in the market or subscribing for shares at market value.
The ESOT is capable of holding a ma[imum of 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
The ESOT reserve arises in connection with the ESOT.
The amount of the reserve represents the deduction in arriving at shareholders funds for the consideration paid for the Companys shares purchased by the Trust which had not vested unconditionally in employees at the balance sheet date.
The ESOT held 5,366,722 shares in ITE Group plc at 30 September 2012 2011: 8,102,687 shares.
During the year 361,000 share options and 1,063,000 nominal share options under the Employees Performance Share Plan were granted against ESOT held shares.
The market value of the ordinary shares held by the ESOT at 30 September 2012 was 11.1 million 2011:12.8 million.
The Company has agreed to make available to the ESOT an interest-free loan of up to 12.5 million for the purpose of buying shares.
At 30 September 2012, the amount of the loan drawn down was 8.6 million.
The ITE Group plc Company only profit and loss account and balance sheet include the results of the ESOT for the year ended 30 September 2012.
The trustees have waived their current and future rights to all dividend entitlement on the shares held by the ESOT.
2,735,965 options were e[ercised by ESOT during the year.
The total consideration for the options e[ercised by ESOT was 705,566.
5,833,295 of outstanding options are to be settled by ESOT, so all shares held by the ESOT are under option as at 30September 2012.
Details of the options in issue and their e[ercise dates can be seen at note 26 to the accounts.
24 Non-controlling interests 2012 2011 000 000 1 October 7,059 1,123 Non-controlling interest arising on acquisition during the year 6,554 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests during the year 936 Reduction in non-controlling interest due to acquisition of non-controlling interest during the year 472 696 profit on ordinary activities after ta[ation 1,045 78 30 September 6,696 7,059 25 Operating lease arrangements The Group has a number of operating leases for which it is a lessee.
2012 2011 000 000 Lease payments under operating leases recognised as an e[pense in the year: Land and buildings 2,304 3,623 Venues 37,346 31,025 At 30 September 2012 the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: Land and Land and buildings Venues buildings Venues 2012 2012 2011 2011 000 000 000 000 Within one year 1,485 11,921 2,345 11,434 Between two and five years 2,926 2,805 After five years 1,090 1,207 5,501 11,921 6,357 11,434 Operating lease payments for land and buildings represent rentals payable by the Group for its ofce properties.
Leases are negotiated for an average term of two years.
Payments for venues represent the non-cancellable amount of contracted venue agreements for future events.
The Group also earned rental income of 0.3 million during the year 2011: 0.3 million.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 96 Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements 26 Share-based payments The Company operate two share option schemes.
Share option plans The Company operates a share option plan for all employees of the Group.
Options are e[ercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Companys share on the date of grant.
The vesting period is either three or five years and are e[ercisable up to ten years from granting.
The options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Performance share plans The Company operated a Performance Share Plan PSP for e[ecutives and staff.
Awards under the PSP are at an e[ercise value of either 1p or nil.
Awards can be made to an employee over shares up to a ma[imum of 100% of base salary each year based on market value.
The vesting period is three years and awards are e[ercisable up to ten years from the date of grant.
For conditional awards the vesting is automatic on the satisfaction of performance targets.
The awards are also subMect to a performance target.
Further details of the performance targets can be found in the Report on Remuneration on pages 57 to 58.
Details of the share options outstanding as at 30 September 2012 are as follows: Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of e[ercise share options price p share options price p 2012 2012 2011 2011 Share option plans Outstanding at beginning of period 4,086,400 132.6 3,754,850 88.5 Granted during the period 361,000 206.0 1,726,500 231.5 Lapsed during the period 213,500 199.6 216,500 139.7 E[ercised during the period 1,669,500 52.6 1,178,450 117.8 2,564,400 189.4 4,086,400 132.6 Performance share plans Outstanding at beginning of period 4,579,674 1.0 4,755,620 1.0 Granted during the period 1,063,000 1.0 915,850 1.0 Lapsed during the period 21,000 1.0 196,500 1.0 E[ercised during the period 1,361,123 1.0 895,296 1.0 4,260,551 1.0 4,579,674 1.0 The total amount of e[ercisable options in the share option plans is 433,400 and in the performance share plans is 315,000.
The weighted average share price at the date of e[ercise for share options e[ercised during the period was 223p.
The options outstanding at 30 September 2012 had a weighted average e[ercise price of 72p, and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 410 days.
In 2012, Share Options and Performance Share Plan options were granted on 10 January 2012.
The aggregate of the estimated fair value of these options is 0.2 million and 2.0 million respectively.
The inputs into the Black-Scholes model for the instruments issued during the year are as follows: Performance Share Performance Share share plan options plan share plan options plan 2012 2012 2011 2011 Weighted average share price 1p 206p 1p 231p Weighted average e[ercise price 1p 206p 1p 231p E[pected volatility 43.0% 43.0% 40.4% 40.4% E[pected life 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years Risk free rate 0.82% 0.82% 2.21% 2.21% Dividend yield 2.7% 2.7% 2.6% 2.6% The Group recognised a total e[pense of 2.1 million 2011: 1.7 million related to equity-settled share-based paymentarrangements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 97 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2012 27 Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its associates, where relevant, are disclosed below.
a]akhstan, ITECA, a Group subsidiary, has transacted with Datacom and Saban Holdings for the provision of web systems and ofce rental respectively.
Edward Strachan, a Group Director, is a significant shareholder of Datacom and Saban Holdings.
In total, the services charged to ITECA were 72,000 2011: 54,000.
In St Petersburg, Prime[po, a Group subsidiary, has transacted with Cavalry House for the provision of ofce rental.
Edward Strachan, a Group Director, is a significant shareholder of Cavalry House.
In total, the services charged to Prime[po were 192,000 2011: 190,000.
During the year consultancy fees of 238,000 2011: 303,000 were paid to and a bonus of 224,000 2011: 330,000 was earned by.
y]yl Tan Eurasian Advisors Limited.
y]yl Tan of which Edward Strachan is a significant shareholder.. y]yl Tan was also paid a living away from home allowance of 19,000 2011: 38,000.
These payments were made under a contract for.
y]yl Tan to provide the services of Edward Strachan to the Group.
During the year the Company made a non-contractual, voluntary payment of 5,000 to.
y]yl Tan Foundation, a charity of which Edward Strachan is a trustee.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related party disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Report on Remuneration on pages 52 to 58.
2012 2011 000 000 Emoluments 1,991 2,163 Share-based payment 1,383 581 3,374 2,744 28 Post balance sheet events On 3 December 2012, ITEs wholly owned subsidiary, Airgate Holdings Ltd, entered into binding agreements for the acquisition of a 28.3% holding in Asian Business E[hibition & Conferences Limited ABEC, a company incorporated in Mumbai.
Consideration of INR 1,227 million was settled in cash.
The Group has written a put option over an additional 31.7% stake in ABEC.
ABEC is e[pected to be earnings enhancing in ITEs 2013 financial year.
Due to the pro[imity to the date of signing of these accounts, the accounting and disclosure impact of ABEC has not been nalised.
On 19 November 2012 the Group renanced its borrowings under its e[isting facility.
See note 18 for more details ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 98
