com Stock code: ITV Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements Derivatives and other gnancial instruments i Accounting policies The Company uses a limited number of derivative financial Basis of preparation instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in interest These accounts have been prepared in accordance with UK and other foreign exchange rates.
The Company does Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative purposes.
As permitted by section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, a separate profit and loss account, dealing with the results Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at of the parent company, has not been presented.
fair value and are subsequently remeasured at fair value with the movement recorded in the profit and loss account Under FRS 29 the Company is exempt from the requirement within net financing costs.
Derivatives with positive fair to provide its own financial instruments disclosures, on the values are recorded as assets and negative fair values as grounds that it is included in publicly available consolidated liabilities.
financial statements which include disclosures that comply with the IFRS equivalent to that standard.
The fair value of foreign currency forward contracts is determined by using the difference between the contract The Company has taken advantage of the FRS 1 exemption exchange rate and the quoted forward exchange rate at from the requirement to prepare and disclose a cash flow the balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps statement.
is the estimated amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, Subsidiaries taking into account current interest rates and the current Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly creditworthiness of swap counterparties.
Control exists where the Company has the power to govern the financial and Third party valuations are used to fair value the Companys operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from derivatives.
The valuation techniques use inputs such its activities.
The investment in the Companys subsidiaries as interest rate yield curves and currency prices yields, is recorded at cost, adjusted for the effect of UITF 41 volatilities of underlying instruments and correlations when it was adopted in prior years.
based payment compensation costs are recharged to the subsidiaries through the profit and loss account.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset Foreign currency transactions or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
instrument is recognised directly in equity.
Any ineffective Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities at the portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the profit balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the rate of and loss account.
exchange ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the profit and loss For financial assets and liabilities classified at fair value account.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured through profit or loss the fair value change and interest at historical cost are translated into sterling at the rate of income expense are not separated.
exchange on the date of the transaction.
Dividends Borrowings Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value including of their approval by the Companys shareholders or their directly attributable transaction costs, with subsequent payment.
measurement at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The difference between initial fair value and ii Employees the redemption value is recorded in the profit and loss Two 2011: two Directors of ITV plc were employees of the account over the period of the liability on an effective Company during the year, both of whom remain at the year interest basis.
The costs relating to these Directors are disclosed in the Remuneration Report.
153 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial Statements Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements continued The Companys ordinary shares give shareholders equal iii Investments in subsidiary undertakings rights to vote, receive dividends and to the repayment of The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed in note xi.
The Company issued 22.9 million new ordinary There was no movement on the balance of 1,646 million shares during the period, for total consideration of 4 in 2012. million.
iv Amounts owed to from subsidiary vii Reconciliation of movements in undertakings shareholders funds The Company operates an inter-group banking policy with certain 100% owned UK subsidiaries.
The policy involves Profit Share Share Other and loss the daily closing cash position for participating subsidiaries capital premium reserves account Total whether positive or negative, being cleared to nil via daily m m m m m bank transfers to ITV plc.
These daily transactions create a At 1 January 2011 389 120 67 32 608 corresponding intercompany creditor or debtor which can Movement for year 4 465 461 result in significant movements in amounts owed to and At 31 December 2011 389 120 63 497 1,069 from subsidiary undertakings in the Company balance sheet.
Retained profit for year for equity shareholders 107 107 Share-based v Borrowings compensation 9 9 Loans repayable after more than one year External dividend paid 78 78 Loans repayable after more than one year as at 31 December Equity portion of the 2012 include: convertible bond 5 5 Issue of shares 2 2 4 F an unsecured 50 million Eurobond 15 million net At 31 December 2012 391 122 58 326 897 of cross currency swaps which has a coupon of 10.0% maturing in June 2014: The loss after tax for the year dealt with in the accounts of F an unsecured 78 million Eurobond which has a coupon of ITV plc is 107 million 2011: profit of 466 million.
5.375% maturing in October 2015: F an unsecured 135 million convertible Eurobond which The profit and loss account reserves of 326 million at has a coupon of 4.0% maturing in November 2016: 31 December 2012 are all distributable.
F an unsecured 161 million Eurobond which has a coupon of 7.375% maturing in January 2017: and The Company received no dividends in 2012.
F a 200 million covenant free loan raised in February 2009 The Directors of the Company propose a final dividend of with a maturity of March 2019.
Interest on the loan is at a 1.8p per share and a special dividend of 4.0p per share.
variable rate, likely to be 13.55%, depending in part on the performance of an interest rate algorithm.
viii Contingent liabilities Under a group registration, the Company is jointly and vi Called up share capital severally liable for VAT at 31 December 2012 of 33 Allotted, million 31 December 2011: 35 million.
The Company has issued guaranteed certain finance and operating lease obligations and fully Authorised paid of subsidiary undertakings.
com Stock code: ITV There are contingent liabilities in respect of certain litigation x Related party transactions and guarantees, broadcasting issues, and in respect of Transactions with key management personnel warranties given in connection with certain disposals of Key management consists of ITV plc Executive Directors.
None of these items are expected to have a material effect on the Groups results or financial position.
Key management personnel compensation is as follows: 2012 2011 Where the Company enters into financial guarantee m m contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies Short-term employee benefits 3 2 within its Group, the Company considers these to be Share-based compensation 4 2 insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In 7 4 this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable xi Principal subsidiary undertakings and that the Company will be required to make a payment under investments the guarantee.
Principal subsidiary undertakings The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at ix Capital and other commitments 31 December 2012, all of which are wholly owned directly or There are no capital commitments at 31 December 2012 indirectly and incorporated and registered in England and 2011: none.
Wales except where stated, are: Name Principal activity ITV Broadcasting Limited Broadcast of television programmes ITV Network Limited Scheduling and commissioning television programmes ITV2 Limited Operation of digital television channels ITV Digital Channels Limited Operation of digital television channels ITV Breakfast Limited Production and broadcast of breakfast time television under national Channel 3 licence ITV Consumer Limited Development of platforms, broadband, transactional and mobile services SDN Limited Operation of Freeview Multiplex A ITV Studios Limited Production of television programmes 1 ITV Studios, Inc. Production of television programmes 2 ITV Studios Germany GmbH formerly Granada Produktion fr Film und Fernsehen GmbH Production of television programmes ITV Studios Australia Pty Limited formerly Granada 3 Media Australia Pty Limited Production of television programmes 12 Yard Productions Investments Limited Production of television programmes 2, 4 Imago TV Film und Fernsehproduktion GmbH Production of television programmes 4 3sixtymedia Limited Supplier of facilities for television productions ITV Global Entertainment Limited Rights ownership and distribution of television programmes and films ITV Ventures Limited formerly Granada Ventures Limited Production and distribution of video and DVD products 1 ITV Global Entertainment, Inc Distribution of television programmes ITV Services Limited Provision of services for other companies within the Group Carlton Communications Limited Holding company Granada Limited Holding company 5 ITV Scottish Limited Partnership Holding company ITV Breakfast Broadcasting Limited Broadcast of television programmes 1,6 Gurney Productions LLC Production of television programmes 1 Incorporated and registered in the USA.
2 Incorporated and registered in Germany.
3 Incorporated and registered in Australia.
4 80% owned 5 99.9% owned SPE partnership with the remaining interest held by the ITV pension scheme.
Fully consolidated in the Group accounts.
Incorporated and registered in Scotland holding the ownership interest in SDN.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by Regulation 7 of the Partnership Accounts Regulations 2008 and has, therefore, not appended the accounts of this qualifying partnership to these accounts.
Separate accounts for the partnership are not required to be, and have not been, gled at Companies House.
6 61.5% owned 155 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial Statements Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements continued A list of all subsidiary undertakings will be included in the Companys annual return to Companies House.
Principal joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments The Company indirectly held at 31 December 2012 the following interests in significant joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments: Interest in Interest in ordinary ordinary share capital share capital 2012 2011 Name Note % % Principal activity Provision of a standard and high definition Freesat UK Limited a 50.00 50.00 enabled digital satellite proposition Operates the Channel 3 and 4 digital terrestrial Digital 3&4 Limited a 50.00 50.00 multiplex YouView TV Limited a 14.30 14.30 Internet connected television platform Noho Film and Television Limited a 50.00 Television drama and film production company Supply of news services to broadcasters Independent Television News Limited b 40.00 40.00 in the UK and elsewhere Mammoth Screen Limited b 25.00 25.00 Production of television programmes Operates voluntary numbering system for the ISAN UK Limited b 25.00 25.00 identification of audiovisual works 1 STV Group plc c 6.79 6.79 Television broadcasting in Scotland 1 Incorporated and registered in Scotland.
c Available for sale financial asset.
