ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial Statements Section 1: Basis of Preparation In this section...
This section sets out the Groups accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole.
Where an accounting policy is specific to one note, the policy is described in the note to which it relates.
This section also shows new EU endorsed accounting standards, amendments and interpretations, whether these are effective in 2012 or later years.
We explain how these changes are expected to impact the financial position and performance of the Group.
The financial statements consolidate those of ITV plc the Subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the special purpose entities Group and include the Groups interests in associates and Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly jointly controlled entities.
The Company is domiciled in the controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group has United Kingdom.
the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In As required by EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 the assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently Groups accounts have been prepared in accordance with exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS, and approved by the Directors.
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest under a contractual arrangement where the Group The financial statements are principally prepared on the and one or more other parties undertake an economic basis of historical cost.
Where other bases are applied these activity that is subject to joint control.
The Group accounts are identified in the relevant accounting policy.
for its interests in joint ventures using the equity method.
Under the equity method the investment in the entity is The Company has elected to prepare its parent company stated as one line item at cost plus the investors share of financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
retained post-acquisition profits and other changes in net assets.
Going concern As a result of the Groups continued generation of significant An associate is an entity, other than a subsidiary or joint free cash flows through efficiencies in the balance sheet the venture, over which the Group has significant influence.
Group continued to improve its positive net cash position, Significant influence is the power to participate in, but and has also continued to improve both its short-term and not control or jointly control, the financial and operating medium-term liquidity position see Section 4 for details on decisions of an entity.
These investments are also accounted capital structure and financing.
for using the equity method.
The Group continues to review forecasts of the television A special purpose entity SPE is a legal entity which advertising market to determine the impact on ITVs liquidity the Group may establish to fulfil a specific trading position and create further cash headroom.
The Groups and investment purpose.
Judgement is required when forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably determining if an SPE should be consolidated and involves possible changes in trading performance, show that the the evaluation of the substance of its relationships with Group will be able to operate within the level of its current the Group and the SPEs risks and rewards.
controlled by the Group are established under terms that impose strict limitations on the decision-making powers of After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable their management and that result in the Group receiving the expectation that the Group has adequate resources to majority of the benefits related to their operations and net continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
assets, being exposed to the majority of risks incidental to Accordingly, the Group continues to adopt the going concern their activities and receiving the majority of the residual or basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
ownership risks related to the SPEs or their assets.
com Stock code: ITV Current non-current distinction Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and Current assets include assets held primarily for trading liabilities purposes, cash and cash equivalents, and assets expected The Group recognises a financial asset or liability when it to be realised in, or intended for sale or use in, the course of becomes a party to the contract.
Financial instruments are the Groups operating cycle.
All other assets are classified as no longer recognised in the statement of financial position non-current assets.
when the contractual cash flows expire or when the Group no longer retains control of substantially all the risks and Current liabilities include liabilities held primarily for trading rewards under the instrument.
purposes, liabilities expected to be settled in the course of the Groups operating cycle and those liabilities due within Cash and cash equivalents one year from the reporting date.
All other liabilities are Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call classified as non-current liabilities.
deposits with maturity of less than or equal to three months from the date of acquisition, cash held to meet certain Classification of financial instruments finance lease commitments and gilts over which unfunded The financial assets and liabilities of the Group are classified pension commitments have a charge.
The carrying value of into the following financial statement captions in the cash and cash equivalents is considered to approximate fair statement of financial position in accordance with IAS 39: value.
financial instruments: Foreign currencies F Loans and receivables separately disclosed as cash and The primary economic environment in which the Group cash equivalents excluding gilts over which unfunded operates is the UK.
The consolidated financial statements pension commitments have a charge and trade and are therefore presented in pounds sterling.
other receivables: Where Group companies based in the UK transact in foreign F Available for sale gnancial assets measured at fair value currencies, these transactions are translated into pounds through other comprehensive income.
Includes gilts over sterling at the exchange rate on that day.
Foreign currency which unfunded pension commitments have a charge monetary assets and liabilities are translated into pounds and equity securities that do not meet the degnition of sterling at the year end exchange rate.
Where there is a subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates: movement in the exchange rate between the date of the F Held to maturity investments: transaction and the year end, a foreign exchange gain or loss F Financial assets liabilities at fair value through progt may arise.
Any such differences are recognised in the income or loss separately disclosed as derivative gnancial statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured instruments in assets liabilities: and at historical cost are translated into pounds sterling at the F Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
separately disclosed as borrowings and trade and other payables.
The assets and liabilities of Group companies outside of the UK are translated into pounds sterling at the year end exchange rate.
The revenues and expenses of these Judgement is required when determining the appropriate companies are translated into pounds sterling at the classification of the Groups financial instruments.
Details average monthly exchange rate during the year.
Where on the accounting policies for measurement of the above differences arise between these rates, they are recognised instruments are set out in the relevant note.
in the translation reserve within equity and other comprehensive income.
103 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial Statements Section 1: Basis of Preparation continued Exchange differences arising on the translation of the Groups interests in joint ventures and associates are F Revenue recognition note 2.1 recognised in the translation reserve within equity and other F Classigcation of gnancial instruments included in comprehensive income.
this note F Acquisition accounting note 3.3 and note 3.4 In respect of all Group companies outside of the UK only F Consolidation of special purpose entities SPEs included those translation differences arising since 1 January 2004, in this note the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity.
On disposal of an interest in a joint venture or an associate, the related translation reserve is The areas involving the most sensitive estimates and released to the income statement as part of the gain or loss assumptions that are significant to the financial statements on disposal.
are set out below and in more detail in the related notes: Accounting judgements and estimates F Degned benegt pension schemes note 3.7 The preparation of financial statements requires F Taxation note 2.3 management to exercise judgement in applying the Groups F Provisions note 3.6 accounting policies.
It also requires the use of estimates and F Employee benegts note 4.7 assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, F Business combinations note 3.4 liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
F Intangible assets note 3.3 F Impairment of assets note 3.2 and note 3.3 Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an F Programme rights and other inventory note 3.1 ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in F Distribution rights note 3.1 which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
F Trade receivables note 3.1 The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are set out below and in more detail in the related notes: 104 ar2012.
com Stock code: ITV New or amended EU endorsed accounting standards The table below represents new or amended EU endorsed accounting standards relevant to the Groups results that are effective in 2012: Accounting Standard Requirement Impact on financial statements IAS 12 Income taxes The Amendment introduces an exception to the current The Group does not consider the amendment to IAS 12 measurement principles of deferred tax assets and to be applicable to the financial statements for the year liabilities arising from investment property measured ended on the basis that the Group does not own, nor has using the fair value model in accordance with IAS acquired, investment properties during the period.
The exception also applies to investment properties acquired in a business combination accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations provided the acquirer subsequently measure these assets applying the fair value model.
The Directors also considered the impact on the Group of other new and revised accounting standards, interpretations or amendments on the Group that are currently endorsed but not yet effective.
Except where noted below, none are considered relevant to the Groups results and are effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
Accounting Standard Requirement Impact on financial statements IAS 19 Revised The IASB has issued numerous amendments to IAS The Group has reviewed the amendments to IAS 19 and Employee Benefits 19.
These range from fundamental changes such as does not consider there to be any impact on the 2012 removing the corridor mechanism and the concept of net assets.
expected return on plan assets to simple clarifications and rewording.
The impact on the income statement for 2012 would be an increase in finance costs of 7 million to 16 million, The revised standard is effective for periods beginning which is adjusted for in calculating adjusted profit, and on or after 1 January 2013, with retrospective an additional 7 million in operating costs to 15 million, application.
which will be included within EBITA.
The finance costs for 2013 under the revised standard are expected to be 21 million, and operating costs will be 13 million.
IAS 1 Financial The amendments to IAS 1 change the grouping of items The amendment affects presentation only and has Statement presented in OCI.
Items that could be reclassified to therefore no impact on the Groups financial position or Presentation the income statement at a future point in time would performance.
be presented separately from items that will never be reclassified.
The amendment is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
IFRS 7 Financial The Amendments require additional disclosures about The Group has reviewed their disclosure of financial Instruments: transfers of financial assets, e. g. securitisations, and instruments to ensure they are in compliance with the Disclosures should enable users to understand the possible effects amendments to IFRS 7. of any risks that may remain with the transferor.
Also required is additional disclosures where a disproportionate amount of transfer transactions take place around the end of the reporting period.
105 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial Statements Section 1: Basis of Preparation continued Accounting Standard Requirement Impact on financial statements IFRS 10 IFRS 10 replaces a portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and Based on the preliminary analyses performed, IFRS 10 is Separate Financial Statements that addresses the not expected to have any impact on the currently held accounting for consolidated financial statements.
It investments of the Group.
also includes the issues raised in SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
The changes introduced by IFRS 10 will require management to exercise significant judgement to determine which entities are controlled and therefore are required to be consolidated by a parent, compared with the requirements that were in IAS 27.
IFRS 11 IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and Based on the preliminary analyses performed, IFRS 11 is SIC-13 Jointly controlled entities Non-monetary not expected to have any impact on the currently held contributions by Venturers.
IFRS 11 removes the option to account for jointly controlled entities JCEs using proportionate consolidation.
Instead, JCEs that meet the definition of a joint venture must be accounted for using the equity method.
IFRS 12 IFRS 12 includes all of the disclosures that were Although a number of new disclosures will be required, previously in IAS 27 related to consolidated financial there is no impact expected on the Groups financial statements, as well as all of the disclosures that position or performance.
were previously included in IAS 31 and IAS 28.
These disclosures relate to an entitys interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured entities.
IFRS 13 IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under The Group is currently assessing the impact that IFRS for all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not this standard will have on the financial position and change when an entity is required to use fair value, but performance, but based on preliminary analyses, no rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value material impact is expected.
under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted.
The standard is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
