157 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial Statements Shareholder Information continued Registrars and transfer office ShareGift All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings and ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for requests to receive corporate documents should, in the first shareholders who may wish to dispose of a small quantity of instance, be directed to Capita Registrars, The Registry, shares where the market value makes it uneconomic to sell 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 4TU.
The scheme is administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation and further information can be They can be contacted by telephone on 0871 664 0300 obtained by contacting them: calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network charges from 020 7930 3737 the UK and 44 20 8639 3399 from outside the UK.
Lines are open Monday to Friday 8.30 a. m. to 5.30 p. m. www.
org Alternatively you could email them at: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com Share price information The current price of ITV plc ordinary shares is available on Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of Company the Company website at www.
mailings because they have multiple accounts should write to Capita to have the accounts amalgamated.
Unsolicited mail The Company is legally obliged to make its register of By logging on to www.
com shareholders members available to the public.
As a consequence of can benefit from a number of online services as follows: this some shareholders might receive unsolicited mail.
Shareholders wishing to limit the amount of such mail F Cast your proxy vote online: should write to the Mailing Preference Service MPS : F Elect to receive shareholder communication electronically: FREEPOST 29 LON20771 London F View your holding balance, indicative share price and W1E 0ZT valuation: F View transactions on your holding and dividend payments Alternatively you can register online or request an you have received: application form by telephone or by email.
MPS will then F Update your address or register a bank mandate notify the bodies that support its service that you do not instruction to have dividends paid directly to your bank wish to receive unsolicited mail.
account: and 0845 703 4599 F Access a wide range of shareholder information including downloadable forms.
uk You will need your investor code IVC which can be found on www.
uk your share certificate s to register to use the Shareholder Portal.
Registered office Share dealing services The London Television Centre The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, Upper Ground building societies and stockbrokers.
Additionally, the London Companys Registrars offer online and telephone dealing SE1 9LT for UK resident shareholders through Capita IRG Trustees 020 7157 3000 Limited.
To use this service shareholders should contact Capita: Company registration number 4967001 Telephone: 0871 664 0364 from the UK calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network charges or 1 890 946 375 for Ireland lo-call and 44 0 203 367 2686 from outside the UK.
Lines are open Monday to Friday 8.00 a. m. to 4.30 p. m. www.
com Stock code: ITV More detailed information can be found on the FSA website: Company website Investor and shareholder related information can be found www.
uk fsaregister use on the Company website at: www.
uk pages register use protect yourself www.
com Identity theft Financial calendar Tips for protecting your ITV plc shares: Annual General Meeting 15 May 2013 Interim Management Statement May 2013 F Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold Half year results announcement July 2013 your shares electronically in CREST via a nominee.
F Keep all correspondence from Capita in a safe place, or Unauthorised brokers Boiler Room Scams destroy correspondence by shredding.
Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited F If you change address inform Capita in writing or via the advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free Shareholder Portal.
If you receive a letter from Capita company reports.
These are typically from overseas based regarding a change of address but have not recently brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them moved please contact them immediately.
what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US F Consider having your dividend paid directly into your bank.
These operations are commonly known This will reduce the risk of the cheque being intercepted as boiler rooms.
F If you change your bank account, inform Capita of the If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: details of your new account.
You can do this via post or online using the Shareholder Portal.
Respond to any F Make sure you get the correct name of the person and letters Capita sends you about this.
F If you are buying or selling shares only deal with brokers F Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before registered in your country of residence or the UK.
getting involved by visiting: www.
uk pages register F Report the matter to the FSA either by calling their Consumer Helpline 0845 606 1234 or by completing an online form at: www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts form.
shtml F If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company endorses will only be included in Company mailings.
Keep in mind that it is very unlikely that an authorised firm that you have no relationship with would contact you out of the blue offering to buy or sell shares or offer other investment opportunities.
159 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview
