Operating Board 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 34 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Governance Governance Operating Board continued 1.
Justin King Chief Executive See page 33 8.
Rob Fraser IT Director Rob joined the Operating Board as IT Director in July 2009, bringing 2.
John Rogers Chief Financial Officer See page 33 many years of both IT and retail experience to the role.
Rob was previously Vice President, Retail, Consumer & Transport at CSC, 3.
Mike Coupe Group Commercial Director See page 33 and spent ten years at Boots where he undertook a variety of IT roles including Group IT Director.
He was also a member of the 4.
Helen Buck Retail Director Boots Executive Committee and has worked for Rank Xerox and Helen was appointed to the Operating Board on 19 July 2010 as Marks & Spencer.
Convenience Director and was appointed Retail Director in March 2012.
Helen joined Sainsburys in 2005 and, after spending four years running 9.
Luke Jensen Group Development Director Brand Communications, moved to Trading as Business Unit Director, Luke joined Sainsburys and the Operating Board in June 2008 as Grocery in 2009.
Before joining Sainsburys, Helen held a number of Director of Strategy.
He was appointed to the position of Managing senior positions at Marks & Spencer, Woolworths and Safeway and was Director Non-Food in 2009 with responsibility for Clothing, General a senior manager at McKinsey & Company.
Since December 2011 Helen Merchandise and Entertainment.
He was appointed Group Development has been a Non-Executive Director of LSL Property Services plc.
In this role he is responsible for driving Sainsburys growth through the New Business Development, Digital and 5.
Roger Burnley Managing Director, Strategy divisions.
Previous roles include Director Partner and Head General Merchandise, Clothing and Logistics of the Consumer and Retail Practice of OC&C Strategy Consultants Roger joined the Operating Board in March 2006 as Supply Chain 2004-08 and Founder and Group FD Executive Director of M8 Group Director before assuming the role of Retail and Logistics Director internet and mail order specialist retailer 2002-04.
2008-12 and was appointed the Managing Director of General Merchandise, Clothing and Logistics in March 2012.
Neil Sachdev Property Director Supply Chain Director at Matalan.
Roger spent his early career in Neil was appointed Property Director in July 2010 and is also retail management and buying at B&Q before joining ASDA WalMart, responsible for Sainsburys environmental strategy.
He joined the where he held a number of positions before becoming their Supply Company as Commercial Director in 2007, where he helped drive Chain Director in 2001.
He is currently Vice President of the Chartered the growth of the Company as well as reduce running costs.
Neil has Institute of Logistics and Transport UK.
a wealth of retail experience following 28 years at Tesco.
He was appointed to the Joint Advisory Board of the Grantham Institute for 6.
Gwyn Burr Customer Service and Colleague Director Climate Change in 2010 and since 2008 has been a member of the Gwyn joined the Operating Board of Sainsburys in 2004 as Business in the Community Mayday Leadership team focusing on the the Customer Director responsible for Marketing, Own Brand, climate change sector.
Neil is also a Non-Executive Director, Chairman Communications and Customer Service.
In 2010 she took on the role of of Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit Committee Customer Service and Colleague Director with responsibility for Human of Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC.
Currently, Neil is Chairman Resources, Customer Service, Sponsorship, Corporate Responsibility of the IGD Board, a Director of the board of IGD Services Limited and and Corporate Communications.
In 2007 Gwyn became a Non-Executive a member of the Business Innovation and Skills Board on Director of Sainsburys Bank plc and in 2011 she joined the board of Green Construction.
the Financial Ombudsman Service as a Non-Executive Director and was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Wembley Stadium in April 11.
Gwyn has nearly 30 years business experience, including five Sarah joined Sainsburys and the Operating Board on 30 January 2012 with Nestl Rowntree and over 13 with ASDA WalMart where she held as Marketing Director.
She has full responsibility for all Sainsburys various board level positions.
Between 2003 and 2006 Gwyn was a Nonmarketing activity including Brand Communications, Non-Food Executive Director for the Principality Building Society.
She is currently Marketing, Customer Insights and Loyalty.
Sarah previously held a Chair of the Business in the Community, Community Investment number of senior positions at Heineken and was their UK Marketing Leadership team.
Director, where she was responsible for a number of the UKs most high-profile FMCG brands.
Prior to this she was Innovation Director 7.
Tim Fallowfield Company Secretary and at Heineken where she led the combined technical and marketing team.
Corporate Services Director Earlier in her career Sarah worked for several marketing agencies, Tim joined Sainsburys in 2001 as Company Secretary and is a member and was a graduate at Unilever PLC.
In addition to his role as Company Secretary, Tim is responsible for Corporate Services comprising Legal Services, Insurance, Safety, Central Security and Shareholder Services.
Tim joined Sainsburys from Exel plc, the global logistics company, where he was Company Secretary and Head of Legal Services 1994-2001.
Prior to this he worked at the international law firm Clifford Chance for six years and is a qualified solicitor.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 35
