Business review Operational excellence Operational excellence Our Waltham Point distribution centre is the largest of 21 depots, making around 2,000 deliveries a week to 83 stores.
World class systems, updated with sales data every 15 minutes, ensure we know exactly what to deliver and where.
Business review B Bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viiew ew Brand Match is Remaining commercially communicating competitive is crucial.
the reality of price competitiveness When we invest, at Sainsburys we do so with strict 2158 01 330 1106 112641 controls on the capital Brand spent to ensure Match We check our prices and deals on brands against Asda and Tesco daily appropriate returns.
Your branded shop was 0.60 cheaper here today Why pay a penny more for your branded shop?
Live well for less at Sainsburys For details see sainsburys.
co. uk brandmatch We have achieved over 100 million of operational cost savings 5 year savings, m 5 year chart savings over the year, taking the total to almost 600 million of cost savings over five years.
This is a result of improved productivity, 180 ongoing procurement savings and simplification of in-store 135 processes.
For example, in logistics we continue to make improvements in vehicle efficiency, load and fuel efficiency, and 90 route optimisation.
In addition, we have recently introduced new 45 warehouse technology which enables colleagues to work more efficiently, help improve product availability and reduce waste.
2007 082008 092009 102010 112011 12 Brand Match is a great example of how we are using technology to deliver for customers and for shareholders.
It price checks over 14,000 branded goods against Tesco and Asda in a fraction Savings breakdown Savings 600m of a second.
Importantly, this includes offers and promotions.
The immediate issue of a voucher, either confirming the Store Simpler processes savings made or offering the difference for the customer to Self checkout spend on their next visit, is a fundamental part of the power Procurement IT contracts of Brand Match.
We issue millions of coupons each week, Commercial services more than half of which tell customers that their shopping at Other Central costs Sainsburys was cheaper than it would have been at Tesco or Range reviews Asda.
Our research shows that the number of customers who Logistics agree that Sainsburys sells brands at the same price as other Network efficiencies Routing improvements supermarkets has risen from 68 per cent to 80 per cent since Energy the trial of Brand Match in August 2011.
LED light bulbs Chiller cabinets Nectar is the UKs largest and most popular loyalty programme and Sainsburys has 11.5 million active Nectar card users.
With its data, we can reward customers directly at the till with points, and relevant rewards and promotions.
Coupon-at-till in particular achieves great returns on our marketing investment and, because of its effectiveness, is widely supported by our suppliers.
We also use Nectar data to identify potential store locations and help determine which goods customers in that area are likely to buy.
A record number of people used their Nectar cards to do their Christmas 2011 shopping with us, with 100 million worth of points redeemed.
We have signed a new long-term contract with Nectar to ensure we retain this source of customer insight a key competitive advantage.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 23
