Financial Statements Glossary Active Kids Our nationwide scheme to help EPS Earnings per share Earnings LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan.
inspire school children to take more exercise attributable to ordinary shareholders divided and to eat more healthily.
Launched in 2005, by the weighted average number of ordinary MSC Marine Stewardship Council.
Active Kids is open to all nursery, primary and shares in issue during the year, excluding secondary schools as well as Scouts and Girl those held by ESOP trusts, which are treated Multiple traffic lights Nutritional labels Guides in the UK.
which provide effective at-a-glance www.
co. uk activekids information customers need to make healthier ESOP trusts Employee Share Ownership choices when shopping.
AGM Annual General Meeting This year Plan trusts.
the AGM will be held on Wednesday, 11 July Nectar The most popular loyalty scheme 2012 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Fairtrade The Fairtrade label is an in the UK, of which Sainsburys is a partner.
Centre, Broad Sanctuary, London SW1P 3EE independent consumer label that guarantees at 11.00am.
a fair deal for marginalised workers and small OFT Office of Fair Trading.
scale farmers in developing countries.
B shares Preference B shares issued on Producers receive a minimum price that covers Real discount rate Discount rate less 12 July 2004 as part of the Return of Capital the cost of production and an extra premium inflation rate.
scheme in 2004 05. that is invested in the local community.
uk ROCE Return on capital employed.
basics Sainsburys entry level sub-brand range of products.
Fair value The amount for which an asset RPI Retail Price Index.
could be exchanged, or a liability settled, bps basis points.
between knowledgeable, willing parties in TSR Total Shareholder Return The growth an arms length transaction.
in value of a shareholding over a specified Brand Match Unique initiative using marketperiod, assuming that dividends are reinvested leading technology guaranteeing price match FSA Food Standards Agency.
to purchase additional units of the stock.
on the basket of comparable grocery branded www.
uk goods with Asda and Tesco.
Over 14,000 Taste the Difference Sainsburys premium branded grocery lines are included and the FTSE4Good The FTSE Group, an indexing sub-brand range of products.
initiative works by offering customers who company, runs the FTSE4Good index series spend over 20 and buy at least one branded to measure the performance of companies TU Sainsburys own label clothing range.
product coupons at the till, there and then that meet CR standards, and to facilitate for use at their next shop.
We even include investment in those companies.
Underlying basic earnings per share promotions provided the same number www.
com ftse4good Profit after tax from continuing operations of products are bought.
Maximum value attributable to equity holders before any of coupons 10.
FVTPL Fair value through profit or loss.
profit or loss on the disposal of properties, Method of valuing a financial instrument where investment property fair value movements, by Sainsburys core own label brand.
changes in fair value are recognised directly impairment of goodwill, financing fair value in the income statement.
movements, IAS 19 pension financing element CMBS Commercial Mortgage Backed and one-off items that are material and Securities.
infrequent in nature, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue Company J Sainsbury plc.
Gearing Net debt divided by net assets.
during the year, excluding those held by the ESOP trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
Click & Collect service which allows Group The Company and its subsidiaries.
customers to place general merchandise Underlying profit before tax Profit before orders online for collection from over IFRIC International Financial Reporting tax from continuing operations before any 900 stores.
profit or loss on the disposal of properties, investment property fair value movements, CPI Consumer Price Index.
IFRSs International Financial Reporting impairment of goodwill, financing fair value Standard s. movements, IAS 19 pension financing element Corporate responsibility The need and one-off items that are material and to act responsibly in managing the impact Income statement Formerly known as infrequent in nature.
on a range of stakeholders: customers, the profit and loss account under UK GAAP.
colleagues, investors, suppliers, Underlying operating profit Underlying he community and the environment.
JV Joint venture A business jointly owned profit before tax from continuing operations by two or more parties.
before underlying net finance costs and Dividend cover Underlying profit after tax underlying share of post-tax profit or loss from continuing operations attributable to Kantar Worldpanel an independent third from joint ventures.
equity shareholders divided by total value party providing data on the UK Grocery Market.
of dividends declared during the year.
Underlying cash flow from operations Like-for-like sales The measure of year-onthe underlying cash generated from DRIP Dividend Reinvestment Plan Allows year same store sales growth.
operations for net rent and cash payments shareholders to reinvest their cash dividend to the pension scheme.
in shares of the Company through Live Well for Less Sainsburys customer a specially arranged share dealing service.
commitment to continue to help people live the life they want to live, with quality products EBITDAR Earnings before interest, tax, at fair prices.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 123 Notes 124 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Further insight Want to know more about our year?
co. uk This report is printed on Revive 75 White Silk, a recycled paper containing 75% post consumer waste.
The paper is FSC accredited as a recycled grade.
The printer is certified to the environmental management system ISO 14001 and is also TM CarbonNeutral.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
FSC Trademark 1996 Forest Stewardship Council, A. C. Cert no.
XXX-XXX-000 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Achievements WINNER Supermarket of the year We won the top award in the Retail Industry Awards 2011 for the second time in three years, with the judges praising us for being true to our Supermarket brand in a difficult trading period, while championing family values of the Year and investing for the future.
WINNER Best convenience retailer For a second year running Sainsburys won Convenience Chain of the Year.
Our stores impressed the judges with their combination of strong Convenience results and excellent growth in a hard fought market.
Chain of the Year Embedding sustainability Sainsburys achieved Gold class status and was rated as a global sector leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
This Index is one of the leading ways that sustainability is measured in the international business community.
Leading retailer for sustainability We were the top retailer for sustainability in the independent, highly regarded FTSE4Good Index, which evaluates businesses from around the world against key social, environmental and governance practices.
Investing in our people We are the first ever food retailer to receive a Gold accreditation from Investors in People for our commitment to improve our business by investing in our colleagues.
Committed to animal welfare standards For the third year running we won the Best Volume Supermarket in the Compassion in World Farming Awards.
The award recognised our responsible, sustainable business approach to our supply chain, and consistent commitment to farm animal welfare.
Focus on customer health This award recognises companies that have made a real impact on helping people make healthier choices in their food and drink.
For Sainsburys, the accolade reflects the work of our in-store pharmacies.
Official partner of the London 2012 Paralympic Games We are proud to be the first ever Paralympics-only sponsor.
Our sponsorship is helping us to promote a healthier, more active lifestyle across all ages and abilities.
Celebrating Her Majestys Diamond Jubilee Sainsburys is celebrating Her Majesty the Queens Diamond Jubilee through our support of the Thames Diamond Jubilee Pageant, Diamond Jubilee Beacons, Jubilee Family Festival and Woodland Trust Jubilee Woods Project.
