ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and Where the temporary difference arises from an rewards of ownership are transferred.
Revenue represents asset or liability in a transaction which, at the time of amounts derived principally from the sale of goods drink the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable and food sales, recognised at the point at which the profit or loss.
goods are provided and the rendering of services.
Machine revenue is recognised after deducting salesDeferred income tax assets are recognised only to the based taxes.
All costs in relation to machine sales are extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be included in cost of sales.
available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried-forward tax credits or tax losses can Leases be utilised.
Leases where the Company assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured finance leases.
Assets acquired under finance leases are at the tax rates which are expected to apply when the capitalised at the lower of their fair value and the present related asset is realised or liability settled, based on tax value of future lease payments.
The corresponding liability rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease balance sheet date.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease payable, so as Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity, to obtain a constant rate of interest on the remaining if it relates to items which are credited or charged to balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged as an equity.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the expense to the income statement, and the asset income statement.
depreciation is charged in line with the accounting policy for property, plant and equipment.
Free cash flow The calculation of free cash flow is based on the net cash Leases where the lessor retains substantially all of the risks generated by business activities after funding interest, and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as corporation tax, all other reinvestment in current pubs at operating leases.
Rental payments in respect of operating the start of the period and the purchase of own shares leases are charged against operating profit, on a straightunder the employee share-based plan.
line basis, over the period of the lease.
Financial instruments The Company also has contingent rentals payable, based Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the date on turnover.
These are charged to operating profit at the on which the Company becomes party to the contractual higher of minimum contractual obligations under the provisions of the instrument giving rise to the asset agreements or based as a percentage of turnover.
Lease incentives Financial assets Lease incentives are recognised as a reduction of rental The Company classifies its financial assets in the following expense to the break clause.
These are amortised on a categories: at fair value through profit or loss, and loans straight-line basis.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss period in which they are incurred, unless the requirements Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are under IAS 23, for the capitalisation of borrowing costs financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is relating to assets, are met.
classified in this category, if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Income taxes Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to, the the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws which are category are presented in the income statement within enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
fair value gain loss on financial derivatives in the period in which they arise.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and b Loans and receivables liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets statements, with the following exceptions: with fixed or determinable payments which are not ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 37
