ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation Hedging The financial statements of the Company have been The Company applies assumptions on future transactions prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, which could have an impact on those future borrowings IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 which are critical in the effectiveness calculations of its applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
If these transactions were not to financial statements have been prepared on the goingoccur, it may result in all or part of the cumulative gain or concern basis, using the historical cost convention, loss which was originally reported in equity being except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
transferred to the income statement.
The Companys financial statements are presented in Taxation sterling, with all values rounded to the nearest Significant judgement is required to determine the thousand pounds 000, except where otherwise provision for taxes, as the tax treatment for some indicated.
The accounting policies which follow set out transactions cannot be fully determined, until a formal those policies which apply in preparing the financial resolution has been reached with the tax authorities.
statements for the year ended 29 July 2012: they have Tax benefits are not recognised until it is probable been consistently applied.
that the benefit will be obtained.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Deferred tax The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Deferred tax assets and liabilities require managements IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
It also requires management to exercise its In particular, significant judgement is used when assessing judgement in the process of applying the Companys the extent to which deferred tax assets and liabilities accounting policies.
The estimates and judgements are should be recognised, with consideration given to the based on historical experience and other factors, timing and level of future taxable income and any future including expectations of future events which are believed tax-planning strategies.
to be reasonable and constitute managements best judgement at the date of the financial statements.
In the Segmental reporting future, actual experience could differ from those The Company reports in one business segment that of estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of public houses and one geographical segment being the judgement or complexity or where assumptions and United Kingdom.
Given the immaterial size of the estimates are significant to the financial statements are Companys hotel business, this has not been separately disclosed below.
Insurance accrual Exceptional items A provision for public liability insurance is made for the The Company presents, on the face of the income estimated exposure of the Company to claims.
This has statement, those material items of income and expense been based on experience of historical claims.
which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the event giving rise to them, merit separate Impairment of property, plant and equipment presentation to allow shareholders to better understand The Company determines whether property, plant and the elements of financial performance in the year, so as equipment is impaired by estimating a units value in use to facilitate comparison with previous periods and to and fair value less costs to sell, to determine the better assess trends in financial performance.
recoverable amounts of cash-generating units CGUs.
Property, plant and equipment Fair value less costs to sell is determined using external Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed and internal estimates of the value of the Companys cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment CGUs.
The value in use is calculated using the estimated in value.
Cost of assets includes acquisition costs, as well earnings and cash flows derived by management as other directly attributable costs in bringing the asset estimates and applying a suitable pre-tax discount rate to into a working condition.
Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis, over the Any changes in the level of forecast earnings or cash estimated useful life of the asset as follows: flows, the discount rate applied or the estimate in fair value less costs to sell could give rise to an additional Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold buildings are depreciated to their estimated residual values over periods of 50 years.
