DIRECTORS REPORT Mr Martin, Mr Hutson, Mr Davis, Ms Cacioppo, 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot ordinary shares Ms van Gene, Ms McMeikan and Sir Richard Beckett all in the capital of the Company: have extensive experience of the Company or in business generally, allowing them, subject to their re-election to A up to an aggregate nominal amount of 839,402, the board, to contribute to the Companys development.
representing approximately 33.3% of the nominal value The chairman confirms that the performance of each of of the ordinary shares currently in issue.
the directors has been evaluated and that each of the directors performance continues to be effective and B up to a further aggregate nominal amount of demonstrates commitment to his or her respective role, 839,402, representing approximately 33.3% of the including time commitments for board and committee nominal value of the ordinary shares currently in issue, meetings.
The board is therefore of the opinion that provided that they are offered by way of a rights issue in Mr Martin, Mr Hutson, Mr Davis, Ms Cacioppo, favour of ordinary shareholders.
Ms van Gene, Ms McMeikan and Sir Richard Beckett should be re-elected at the annual general meeting.
The authority unless previously varied, revoked or renewed will expire on the earlier of 15 months from the Resolution 11: Election of Mr Mark Reckitt as director date of passing the resolution and the conclusion of the Mr Reckitt was appointed as a new director of the next annual general meeting of the Company.
Under the Companys articles of association, when the board appoints a new director, The Association of British Insurers ABI revised its that director must stand for election at the next annual guidelines on share allotments, in 2010, following a general meeting.
Mr Reckitt will therefore stand for report of the Rights Issue Review Group.
Based on the election at this years annual general meeting.
guidelines, the limit on the directors authority to allot shares under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 Brief biographical details of Mr Reckitt can be found on may be increased from one-third to two-thirds of the page 46 and on the Companys Web site.
The election Companys issued share capital.
The guidelines provide resolution will be proposed as an ordinary resolution that the amount of any authority above one-third must and is set out as resolution 11 in the notice of annual be applied to fully pre-emptive rights issues only and general meeting.
should be valid for one year only.
If the Company makes an allotment pursuant to such additional authority, the Mr Reckitt has extensive experience of business generally, ABI will expect that all directors will stand for re-election allowing him, subject to his election to the board, to at the next annual general meeting following the decision contribute to the Companys development.
The board is to make the allotment in question.
therefore of the opinion that Mr Reckitt should be elected at the annual general meeting.
The directors will exercise such authority to allot shares only when satisfied that it is in the interests of the Resolution 12: Reappointment of Company to do so.
They have no present intention of  LLP as auditors exercising the authority.
Resolution 12, set out in the notice of annual general meeting, proposes that  LLP be Resolution 14: Disapplication of pre-emption rights reappointed as the Companys auditors and authorises the The provisions of section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 directors to determine their remuneration.
which confer on shareholders rights of pre-emption in respect of the allotment of equity securities which are, Resolution 13: Authority to allot or are to be, paid up in cash, other than by way of The Companies Act 2006 prevents directors of a public allotment to employees under an employee share scheme company from allotting unissued shares, other than apply to the unissued ordinary shares of the Company to pursuant to an employee share scheme, without the the extent that they are not disapplied, pursuant to authority of shareholders in a general meeting.
In certain sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006. circumstances, this could be unduly restrictive.
The general authority previously given to the directors to allot The current disapplication of these statutory pre-emption relevant securities will expire at the end of the annual rights will expire at the end of the annual general general meeting convened for 8 November 2012. meeting convened for 8 November 2012.
Accordingly, resolution 14, as set out in the notice of annual general Accordingly, resolution 13, set out in the notice of annual meeting, will be proposed as a special resolution to general meeting, will be proposed as an ordinary permit directors to allot shares without the application of resolution to authorise the directors pursuant to section these statutory pre-emption rights: first, in relation to 50 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
