DIRECTORS REPORT forecasts: they have satisfied themselves that the Business at the annual general meeting Company will continue in operational existence for the On pages 65 to 67 is a notice convening the annual foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to general meeting of the Company for 8 November 2012, at adopt the going-concern basis, in preparing the which shareholders will be asked, as items of special Companys financial statements.
business, to give power to the directors to allot shares, to give power to the directors to disapply the pre-emption Employment policies requirements of section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, All staff are encouraged to make a real commitment to to give power to the directors to make market purchases of the Companys success and to progress to a more senior ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, subject to role as they, themselves, develop.
certain conditions, and to retain the ability to hold general meetings on 14 clear days notice.
The notice also sets out In selecting, training and promoting staff, the Company details of the ordinary business to be conducted at the has to take account of the physically demanding nature annual general meeting.
Set out below is an explanation of of much of its work.
The Company is committed to the effect and purpose of the resolutions proposed.
equality of opportunity and to the elimination of discrimination in employment.
The Company aims to Resolution 1: Receive and adopt the audited accounts create and maintain a working environment, terms and The directors recommend that the Company adopt the conditions of employment and personnel and reports of the directors and the auditors and the audited management practices which ensure that no individual accounts of the Company for the year ended 29 July 2012. receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of his or her race, religion, nationality, ethnic origin, age, Resolution 2: Approval of the directors disability, gender, sexual orientation or marital status.
remuneration report Employees who become disabled will be retained, where Resolution 2 in the notice of annual general meeting, possible, and retrained, where necessary.
which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution, asks shareholders to approve the directors remuneration The Company has established a range of policies, report, set out on pages 52 to 57. covering issues such as diversity, employees well-being and equal opportunities, aimed at ensuring that all Resolution 3: Declaration of a final dividend employees are treated fairly and consistently.
The Company paid an interim dividend of 4.0p per share on 23 May 2012.
The directors recommend a final Internal communications seek to ensure that staff are well dividend of 8.0p per share, bringing the total dividend for informed about the Companys progress, through the use of the year to 12.0p per share.
Subject to final approval by regular newsletters and briefings at staff meetings, at which shareholders, the final dividend will be paid to employees views are discussed and taken into account.
shareholders who are on the register at close of business on 26 October 2012.
All pub staff participate in incentive bonus schemes related to sales, profits and or service standards.
Resolutions 410: Re-election of Mr Martin, Mr Hutson, Mr Davis, Ms Cacioppo, Ms van Gene, Policy on payment of suppliers Ms McMeikan and Sir Richard Beckett as directors The Company agrees on terms and conditions with all The Companys articles of association require one-third of suppliers before business takes place and has a policy of the directors to retire from office at each annual general paying agreed invoices in accordance with the terms of meeting.
In addition, any director who has, at the annual payment.
Trade creditors at the year end represented 58 general meeting, been in office for more than three years 2011: 56 days purchases.
since his or her last appointment or reappointment should also retire and may offer himself or herself for re-election.
Political and charitable contributions The Company supports CLIC Sargent caring for children However, the UK Corporate Governance Code now with cancer and their families and has helped to raise provides that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should 1,409,139 in the current year.
It also provides advice and be subject to annual election by shareholders.
marketing support to the charity, at no cost.
The Accordingly, all members of the board will retire and seek Company has not made any political or charitable re-election at this years annual general meeting.
Brief biographical details of each of the directors standing Events after the reporting period for re-election may be found on page 46 and on the The details of events after the reporting period can be Companys Web site.
The re-election resolutions are set found in note 27 on page 30. out as resolutions 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 in the notice of annual general meeting.
