DIRECTORS REPORT the Company are attached to these shares.
In addition, material departures disclosed and explained in the the Company operates a deferred bonus scheme, financial statements.
whereby, should a takeover occur, all shares held in trust prepare the financial statements on the going-concern would be transferred to the employee immediately.
basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Company is not aware of any agreements among holders of securities known to the Company which The directors are responsible for keeping adequate may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or accounting records which are sufficient to show and voting rights.
explain the Companys transactions and which disclose, with reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the The Company has the power to issue and buy back shares Company, at any time.
The accounting records enable the as a result of resolutions passed at the annual general directors to ensure that the financial statements and the meeting in 2011.
It is the Companys intention to renew directors remuneration report comply with the these powers: the resolutions approving them are found in Companies Act 2006 and that the Companys financial the notice of the annual general meeting for 2012. statements comply with Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of In the event of a change of control, the Company is the Company and for taking reasonable steps for the obliged to notify its main bank lenders.
The lenders shall prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
not be obliged to fund any new borrowing requests: facilities will lapse 10 days after the change of control, if The directors are responsible for the maintenance and the terms on which they can continue have not been integrity of the Companys Web site.
Legislation in the agreed on.
Any borrowings, including accrued interest, United Kingdom governing the preparation and will become immediately repayable upon such lapse.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
There are no other significant agreements to which the Company is party which may be subject to change of Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed control provisions.
in the section headed directors, officers and advisers, confirms, to the best of his or her knowledge, that: There are no agreements with the Companys directors or employees which provide for compensation for loss of office the Company financial statements, which have been or employment which occurs because of a takeover bid.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Statement of directors responsibilities position and profit of the Company.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual the directors report includes a fair review of the report, the directors remuneration report and the development and performance of the business and the financial statements, in accordance with applicable law position of the Company, together with a description of and regulations.
the principal risks and uncertainties which it faces.
so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no Company law requires the directors to prepare financial relevant audit information of which the Companys statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the auditors are unaware.
directors have prepared the Company financial statements he or she has taken all steps which he or she ought in accordance with International Financial Reporting to have taken as a director, in order to make himself Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
or herself aware of any relevant audit information and Under company law, the directors must not approve the to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of financial statements, unless they are satisfied that they that information.
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for Directors indemnities that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the The Company maintains directors and officers directors are required to: liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Going concern make judgements and accounting estimates The directors have made enquiries into the adequacy of which are reasonable and prudent.
the Companys financial resources, through a review of state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the the Companys budget and medium-term financial plan, European Union have been followed, subject to any including capital expenditure plans and cash flow 48 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
