ACCOUNTING POLICIES Foreign currencies The movement in cumulative expense since the previous Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the date with a corresponding entry in equity.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the year-end exchange rates, with the Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as resulting exchange differences taken to the income if it had vested on the date of cancellation, with any cost statement, except where hedge accounting is applied.
not yet recognised in the income statement for the award being treated as an expense immediately.
Any Retirement benefits compensation paid, up to the fair value of the award at Contributions to personal pension schemes are the cancellation or settlement date, is deducted from recognised in the income statement in the period equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an in which they fall due.
All contributions are in respect expense in the income statement.
Dividends New standards, amendments and interpretations Dividends recommended by the board, but unpaid at effective in the current year: each period end, are not recognised in the financial statements until they are paid in the case of the interim Annual improvements 2010: This is a collection of dividend or approved by shareholders at the annual amendments to two standards as part of the IASB general meeting in the case of the final dividend.
The standards affected are: Changes in net debt Changes in net debt are both the cash and non-cash IFRS 7 Financial instruments disclosures movements of the year, including movements in derivative IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements financial instruments, of finance leases, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents.
The adoption of these amendments had no impact on the Companys results or financial position.
Share-based charges The Company has an employee share incentive plan which awards shares to qualifying employees: there is also Standards, amendments and interpretations a deferred bonus scheme which awards shares to effective in the current year, but not relevant directors and senior managers, subject to specific to the Company: performance criteria.
Amendment to IFRIC 14, IAS 19 Prepayments of The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is a minimum funding requirement measured by reference to the fair value at the date at Amendments to IAS 24 revised Related-party which they are granted and is recognised as an expense disclosures over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Disclosures on derecognition In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than market conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company.
Standards and interpretations which are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by No expense is recognised for awards which do not the Company: ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional on a market condition, which are treated as Amendment to IAS 1: Presentation of financial vesting, irrespective of whether or not the market statements, on other comprehensive income OCI condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance Annual improvements 2011 conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, The above standards and interpretations are not expected representing the extent to which the vesting period has to have a significant impact on the Companys results or expired, being managements best estimate of the financial position.
achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments which will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument, subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described previously.
