NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING This information is important and requires Special business your immediate attention.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions: in the case of the resolution numbered 13 as If you are in any doubt as to what action to take, you an ordinary resolution and, in the case of the resolutions should consult your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or numbered 14, 15 and 16, as special resolutions.
other appropriate independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 13 THAT: 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your in place of all existing authorities, the directors be shares in J D Wetherspoon plc the Company, please generally and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to forward this document and the accompanying documents section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to to the person through whom the sale or transfer was exercise all the powers of the Company: effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
A to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the of the Company will be held at The Crosse Keys, Company Relevant Securities, up to a maximum 9 Gracechurch Street, London, EC3V 0DR, on Thursday aggregate nominal amount of 839,402: and further 8 November 2012, at 10am, for the following purposes: B to allot Relevant Securities comprising equity securities Ordinary business within the meaning of section 560 1 of the Act up to To resolve as ordinary resolutions: an aggregate nominal amount of 839,402 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue in favour of holders 1 To receive and adopt the reports of the directors and of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in the auditors and the audited accounts of the Company proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their for the year ended 29 July 2012. existing holdings of ordinary shares, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors deem 2 To receive and approve the directors remuneration necessary or expedient in relation to fractional report for the year ended 29 July 2012. entitlements or any legal, regulatory or practical problems under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any 3 To declare a final dividend for the year ended regulatory body or stock exchange: 29 July 2012 of 8.0 pence per ordinary share of 2.0 pence each in the capital of the Company.
for a period expiring unless previously revoked, varied or renewed on the date which is 15 months from the date of 4 To re-elect Tim Martin as a director.
the passing of this resolution or, if sooner, the end of the next annual general meeting of the Company, but the 5 To re-elect John Hutson as a director.
Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require Relevant 6 To re-elect Kirk Davis as a director.
Securities to be allotted after this authority expires, and the directors may allot Relevant Securities in pursuance of such 7 To re-elect Su Cacioppo as a director.
offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired.
8 To re-elect Debra van Gene as a director.
14 THAT: subject to the passing of resolution 13 above and in place 9 To re-elect Elizabeth McMeikan as a director.
of all existing powers, the directors be generally empowered, pursuant to sections 570 and 573 of the Act, 10 To re-elect Sir Richard Beckett as a director.
to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of the Act for cash, pursuant to the authority 11 To elect Mark Reckitt as a director.
conferred by resolution 13 as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to such allotment, provided that this power 12 To reappoint  LLP as shall expire on the date which is 15 months from the date the auditors of the Company and to authorise the of the passing of this resolution or, if sooner, the end of directors to fix their remuneration.
the next annual general meeting of the Company.
This power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 65
