DIRECTORS REPORT offers of equity securities by way of rights issue, open The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter offer or similar arrangements save that, in the case of an of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility allotment pursuant to the authority in paragraph B of is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought resolution 14, such allotment shall be by way of rights to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
issue only : second, in relation to the allotment of equity securities for cash, up to a maximum aggregate nominal Annual general meetings will continue to be held on at amount of 126,036 representing approximately 5% of least 21 clear days notice.
the nominal value of the ordinary shares of the Company currently in issue.
Recommendation The directors believe that the resolutions which are to be The authority unless previously varied, revoked or proposed at the annual general meeting are in the best renewed will expire on the earlier of 15 months from the interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole date of passing the resolution and the conclusion of the and recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of next annual general meeting of the Company.
them, as each of the directors intends to do, in respect of his or her own beneficial holding.
Resolution 15: Purchase of ordinary shares In common with many other listed companies, the Company proposes, once again, to seek an authority By order of the board from shareholders to permit it to purchase its own shares.
Accordingly, resolution 15 will be proposed as a Kirk Davis special resolution to authorise the Company to make Company Secretary market purchases of up to 18,892,841 shares, just 14 September 2012 under 15% of the Companys current issued ordinary share capital, at prices not less than the nominal value of an ordinary share and not exceeding 105% of the average of the middle-market quotations for an ordinary share for the five business days before each purchase exclusive of expenses.
The authority will last until the earlier of 15 months from the date of passing the resolution and the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company.
The directors envisage that purchases would be made only after considering the effects on earnings per share and the benefits for shareholders generally.
Resolution 16: 14 days notice for general meetings Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 clear days, unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot, however, be fewer than 14 clear days.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Note that the changes to the Companies Act 2006 mean that, in order to be able to call a general meeting on under 21 clear days notice, the Company must make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
