ACCOUNTING POLICIES quoted in an active market.
They are included in current Bank loans and loan notes are classified as current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after liabilities, unless the Company has an unconditional right the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months assets.
Loans and receivables are classified as other after the balance sheet date.
receivables on the balance sheet.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Other receivables Derivative financial instruments used by the Company are Other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and stated at fair value on initial recognition and at carried at amortised cost less an allowance for any subsequent balance sheet dates.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer Hedge accounting is used only where, at the inception probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
of the hedge, there is formal designation and documentation of the hedging relationship, it meets Cash and cash equivalents the Companys risk-management objective strategy Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet for undertaking the hedge and is expected to be comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term highly effective.
deposits with an original maturity of one month or under.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and Interest-rate swaps cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term deposits Interest-rate swaps are classified as hedges where they as defined above.
Bank overdrafts are shown within hedge exposure to cash flow variability which is current financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
attributable to either a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
Financial liabilities The Company classifies its financial liabilities in the For interest-rate swaps, the effective portion of the gain following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in and other financial liabilities.
The classification depends on equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the the purpose for which the financial liabilities were acquired.
income statement within fair value gain loss on financial derivatives.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to a Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss the income statement when the hedged transaction Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or financial liabilities held for trading.
A financial liability is purchase occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a classified in this category, if acquired principally for the non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to purpose of selling in the short term.
Financial liabilities equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the with a designated hedge may also be categorised as non-financial asset or liability.
financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
They are included in current liabilities, except for maturities If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires b Other financial liabilities or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or Other financial liabilities are measured at fair value on roll-over or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, initial recognition and subsequently measured at amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity, amortised cost, using the effective-interest method.
until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of Trade and other payables a non-financial asset or liability, as above.
If the related Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken value and subsequently at amortised cost, using the to the income statement.
Share capital Bank loans and loan notes Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs Interest-bearing bank loans and loan notes are recorded directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options initially at fair value of consideration received net of direct are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from issue costs.
Borrowings are subsequently recorded at the proceeds.
amortised cost, with any difference between the amount initially recorded and the redemption value recognised in the income statement over the period of the bank loans, using the effective-interest method.
