DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Share Incentive Plan Under the scheme, bonus awards are based on the The Companys policy on share incentives is to distribute increase in owners earnings cash profits per share, over them widely across the Companys pub staff and headthe previous financial year.
Participants are entitled to an office employees.
In the year to 29 July 2012, 5.8 million amount up to 3% of their annual base salary for every was awarded in shares, 96% of which were made to 1% increase in owners earnings per share.
The Company employees below board level.
In this way, the Company believes that linking incentives to the growth in cash seeks to encourage and motivate employees involved at profits will align the interests of shareholders generally all levels of the Company, including bar and kitchen staff, with executives in the Company.
The maximum bonus to giving all an opportunity to share in the wealth which be earned under this scheme is 100% of annual salary.
they are helping to create.
Owners earnings are calculated as follows: The Company established a share incentive plan incorporating an HM Revenue & Customs-approved Profit before tax excluding unrealised exceptional items element in August 2003.
This approved plan is an Add: Depreciation and amortisation all-employee plan, providing all employees, including Less: Cash reinvestment in current properties executive directors, usually those who have worked with Less: Cash tax the Company for at least 18 months, with bonuses in the Equals: Owners earnings form of shares in the Company equivalent to 5% of their salary each year.
Bonus awards are satisfied in shares.
One-third of a participants shares will vest to the participant on Shares will not vest for at least three years under this calculation of the amount of the award, one-third will plan.
The HMRC-approved element of this plan allows for vest after one year and the remaining third will vest to tax-free returns, if held for over five years, thus providing the participant after two years in each case, subject to a long-term incentive for employees.
The cost of the the participants being employed at the release date.
shares will be reflected in the Companys income statement for those financial years over the period in The shares required under the scheme are purchased which they vest.
in the market by an employee benefit trust, funded by the Company.
The Company offers extra SIPs under this scheme to all higher grades of employee who have been with the In the year ended 29 July 2012, owners earnings per company for at least 18 months.
Pub managers receive an share increased by 13%: therefore executive directors extra 5% annual award, head-office staff 1015% and received bonus shares under this scheme with a value senior managers and directors, including executive board equal to 39% of salary.
Extra SIPs do not qualify for the same tax benefits as those under the approved scheme.
Benefits in kind A range of taxable benefits is available to executive In addition to the above, in November 2009, the directors.
These benefits comprise principally the provision Company commenced offering partnership shares under of a Company car allowance, life assurance and private the Share Incentive Plan.
The scheme allows all employees medical insurance.
including directors to use their pre-tax salary to buy shares in the Company, monthly, using up to 10% with a Chairman and directors service contracts maximum of 1,500 a year of their pre-tax pay.
The The executive directors are employed on rolling contracts, shares will not vest for at least three years and, if held for requiring the Company to give up to one years notice of over five years, allow for tax-free returns.
termination, while the director may give six months notice.
In the event of termination of employment with 2005 Deferred Bonus Scheme the Company, without the requisite period of notice, In addition to the current Share Incentive Plan, the executive directors service contracts provide for the Company introduced a deferred bonus scheme, for senior payment of a sum equivalent to the net value of salary managers, including executive directors, following and benefits to which the executive would have been shareholders approval in 2005. entitled during the notice period.
The executive is required to mitigate his or her loss, and such mitigation Bonus awards are made under the scheme, annually, may be taken into account in any payment made.
The at the discretion of the remuneration committee, Companys policies on the duration of directors service to executive directors, general managers and contracts, notice periods and termination payments are certain other senior employees.
all in accordance with best industry practice.
