ACCOUNTING POLICIES Short-leasehold buildings are depreciated over the amount cannot exceed the carrying amount which would lease period.
have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in previous Equipment, fixtures and fittings are depreciated years.
Such a reversal is recognised in the income over three to 10 years.
After such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods, to allocate the assets revised Unopened properties are not depreciated until carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic such time as economic benefits are derived.
basis, over its remaining useful life.
As required by IAS 16, property, plant and Intangible assets equipments expected useful life and residual Intangible assets are carried at cost, less accumulated values are reviewed annually.
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised on a reviewed for impairment, if events or changes in straight-line basis over their expected useful life, as follows: circumstances indicate that their carrying values may not be recoverable.
Any impairment in the value of property, Computer software 3 to 10 years plant and equipment is charged to the income statement.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for Profits and losses on disposal of property, plant and impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances equipment reflect the difference between the net selling indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
price and the carrying amount at the date of disposal and are recognised in the income statement.
Lease premiums Payments made on entering into or acquiring leaseholds Impairment which are accounted for as operating leases represent At each reporting date, the Company assesses whether prepaid lease payments.
These are amortised on a there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If straight-line basis, over the lease term.
Lease premiums any such indication exists, or when annual impairment are disclosed as other non-current assets.
testing for an asset is required, the Company makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets Assets held for sale recoverable amount is the higher of an asset or CGUs fair Where the value of an asset will be recovered through a value less costs to sell and its value in use: this is sale transaction, rather than continuing use, the asset is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does classified as held for sale.
Assets held for sale are valued not generate cash inflows which are largely independent at the lower of book value and fair value, less any costs of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the of disposal, and are no longer depreciated.
carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written Inventories down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their realisable value.
Cost is calculated on the basis of first in, present value, using a pre-tax discount rate which reflects first out, with net realisable value being the estimated current market assessments of the time value of money selling price, less any costs of disposal.
Provision is made and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses of for obsolete, slow-moving or damaged inventory, where continuing operations are recognised in the income appropriate.
statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a An assessment is made at each reporting date about present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a whether there is any indication that previously recognised past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources impairment losses may no longer exist or may have will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable estimate can be made of the obligations amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the Revenue recognition estimates used to determine the assets recoverable Revenue is the value of goods and services sold to third amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
parties as part of the Companys trading activities, after If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is deducting discounts and sales-based taxes.
increased to its recoverable amount.
