NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING i in connection with an offer of equity securities 16 THAT: including, without limitation, under a rights issue, open general meetings other than any annual general offer or similar arrangement, save that, in the case of an meeting of the Company may be called on not less than allotment pursuant to the authority conferred by 14 clear days notice.
paragraph B of resolution 13, such offer shall be by way of rights issue only in favour of holders of ordinary shares By order of the board in the capital of the Company in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings of ordinary shares, but subject to such exclusions or other Kirk Davis arrangements as the directors deem necessary or Company Secretary expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any 14 September 2012 legal, regulatory or practical problems under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body Registered office: or stock exchange: and Wetherspoon House ii otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above up Central Park to an aggregate nominal amount of 126,036, but the Reeds Crescent Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or Watford agreement which would or might require equity securities WD24 4QL to be allotted after this power expires, and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this power had not expired.
Notes: This power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the annual an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section general meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies 560 2 b of the Act as if, in the first paragraph of this to attend, speak and vote, instead of him or her, provided resolution, the words pursuant to the authority conferred that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights by resolution 13 were omitted.
attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
15 THAT: the Company be and is hereby authorised, pursuant to 2 A form of proxy is enclosed which members are invited section 701 of the Act, to make market purchases as to complete and return in the envelope provided.
defined by section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares in Completion and return of the form of proxy, in the capital of the Company, on such terms and in such accordance with the instructions on it, will not prevent manner as the directors of the Company shall determine, such members from attending and voting at the annual subject to the following conditions: general meeting in person, should they so wish.
i the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be 3 To be valid for the annual general meeting, the form of purchased is 18,892,841. proxy and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is executed or a notarised copy of ii the price at which ordinary shares may be purchased such authority must be deposited at the offices of the shall not exceed 105% of the average of the middleCompanys registrars, Computershare Investor Services market quotations for the ordinary shares as derived plc, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, from the Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five BS99 7NH, or at the following electronic address business days preceding the date of purchase and shall www.
com not later than 10am on not be less than the nominal value, from time to time, of 6 November 2012, being 48 hours before the time an ordinary share, in both cases exclusive of expenses.
appointed for holding the annual general meeting.
iii this authority unless previously revoked, varied or 4 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person renewed will expire at the earlier of 15 months from the nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy date of passing of this resolution and the conclusion of information rights a Nominated Person may, under an the next annual general meeting of the Company, except agreement between him or her and the member by that the Company may, before such authority expires, whom he or she was nominated, have a right to be enter into a contract of purchase under which such appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy purchase may be completed or executed wholly or partly for the annual general meeting.
If a Nominated Person after the expiry of the authority.
has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to 66 J D WETHERSPOON PLC NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING exercise it, he or she may, under any such agreement, public holidays excepted, and there will be available for have a right to give instructions to the member as to the inspection at the place of the annual general meeting from exercise of voting rights.
at least 15 minutes beforehand and until the conclusion of the annual general meeting, copies of the non-executive 5 The statement of the rights of members in relation to directors letters of appointment to the Company.
the appointment of proxies in notes 1, 2 and 3 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights 11 Only those members registered on the register of described in those notes can be exercised only by members of the Company as at 10am on 6 November members of the Company.
2012 or, in the case of any adjournment, 48 hours before the time of the adjourned meeting shall be 6 Any corporation which is a member may appoint one or entitled to attend or vote at the annual general meeting more corporate representatives who may exercise on its in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in behalf all of its powers as a member, provided that they their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the do not do so in relation to the same shares.
register of members after that time will be disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend or vote at 7 Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the the meeting.
threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a Web site a 12 You may not use any electronic address provided in statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit this notice of annual general meeting for communicating of the Companys accounts including the auditors report with the Company for any purposes other than those and the conduct of the audit which is to be laid before expressly stated.
the annual general meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such Web site publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a Web site, under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditors no later than the time when it makes the statement available on the Web site.
The business which may be dealt with at the annual general meeting includes any statement which the Company has been required, under section 527 of the Act, to publish on a Web site.
8 A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found on the Companys Web site: www.
co. uk 9 Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting, but no answer to any such question need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a Web site in the form of an answer to a question or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
10 There are available for inspection at Macfarlanes LLP, 20 Cursitor Street, London, EC4A 1LT, during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 67 J D Wetherspoon plc Wetherspoon House, Central Park Reeds Crescent, Watford, WD24 4QL 01923 477777 www.
co. uk Designed by WLG Design Limited Printed by Banner Managed Communication English language advice by www.
