PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FACING THE COMPANY In the course of normal business, the Company Head office and distribution centre continually assesses significant risks faced and takes Any disasters at the Companys head office in Watford action to mitigate the potential impacts.
or its distribution centre in Daventry could seriously disrupt its day-to-day operations.
Various measures have The following risks, while not intended to be a been undertaken by the Company, including a comprehensive analysis, constitute in the opinion of the comprehensive disaster-recovery plan, seeking to minimise board the principal risks and uncertainties currently the impact of any such incidents.
facing the Company: Information technology Regulation of the sale of alcohol The Companys daily operations are increasingly reliant on The pub business is highly regulated, with increases in its information technology systems.
Any prolonged or alcohol duty, as well as increased regulation, a constant significant failure of these systems could pose a risk to feature of the industry for many years.
The Company seeks to minimise this risk by ensuring that there are policies and procedures to ensure Health and safety protection of hardware, software and information, by The Company endeavours to ensure that all reasonable various means, including a disaster-recovery plan, a standards of health and safety are met, including a system of backups and external hardware and software.
process by which risks are identified in a timely manner and remedied accordingly.
Capital risk management The Company aims to increase sales, earnings and Economic outlook distributions to shareholders, while maintaining The Company aims to improve its customer offering reasonable levels of capital and debt.
Financial conditions continually, so that it remains competitively placed in the since 2007 08 demonstrate that banking facilities may market in which it operates.
Adverse economic conditions not be available for some companies in extraordinary can theoretically have an effect on the Companys circumstances and this is a risk to the Company.
performance, although, historically, these effects have However, in spite of extreme financial conditions, the been muted.
Company was able to refinance its debt in March 2010 and August 2011.
Cost increases Inflationary pressures on the Companys costs pose a risk Interest-rate risk to margins, although the Company has been able to The Company manages the risks of an increase in interest achieve satisfactory arrangements with its suppliers, up rates by swapping the majority of its floating-rate until now, in both good and difficult economic conditions.
Reputational risk During the 53 weeks ended 29 July 2012, if the interest The Company is aware that, in operating in a consumerrates on UK-denominated borrowings had been 1% facing business, its business reputation, built over many higher, with all other variables constant, pre-tax profit for years, can be damaged in a significantly shorter the year would have been reduced by 1,047,000 and timeframe.
The Company, therefore, in its day-to-day equity increased by 20,963,000.
The movement in business, maintains substantial efforts in this area, equity arises from a change in the mark to market to improve operational controls.
valuation of the interest-rate swaps into which the Company has entered, calculated by a 1% shift of the Supply-chain risks market yield curve.
The Company considers that a 1% It is fundamental to our operations that we should be able movement in interest rates represents a reasonable to supply our pubs with the required goods and services.
However, this analysis is for illustrative purposes only.
We work closely with our suppliers and central distribution partners, in order to maintain availability of Credit risk products, at all times.
The Company does not have significant concentration of credit risk, as the majority of revenue is in cash.
