DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT for the 53 weeks ended 29 July 2012 This report has been drawn up in accordance with, The following comprises the components of the among other things, the UK Corporate Governance Code remuneration of all executive directors: 2010.
This report will be put to an advisory vote of the Companys shareholders at the annual general meeting Salary on 8 November 2012.
Salaries and other benefits are determined annually in the autumn.
The remuneration committee aims to take a fair Composition and role of the remuneration committee and commonsense approach, following a review of the The remuneration committee is appointed by the board individuals performance and by reference to the industry and comprises Debra van Gene chair, Elizabeth and consideration of other comparisons and reports.
The McMeikan, Sir Richard Beckett and Mark Reckitt.
review in September 2011 concluded that, at executive board level, there would be an increase of 514% in base The committee meets throughout the year and performs salary for executive directors, taking into account the an annual review, covering elements of executive restructuring of the board and reflecting individuals directors remuneration.
In addition, it approves all increased responsibilities, workload and personal contractual and other compensation arrangements for the performance in the year.
The committee approves annual performance-related payments whether in shares or cash Annual performance-related payments for executive directors.
In the year ended 29 July 2012, It is the policy of the Company to operate bonus the committee met eight times.
arrangements, at all staff levels, which are performance related, the primary performance measures being sales, No member of the committee has any personal financial profitability and operating standards.
The executive interest, other than as a shareholder, in the matters directors participate in a management bonus scheme, to be decided by the committee.
None of the executive designed to incentivise business performance.
directors attended a meeting on matters relating to his or her own remuneration.
The financial targets are based on annual growth in profits before tax, excluding exceptional items, which is Remuneration policy multiplied by a factor of 1.5 to arrive at the level of The aim of the Companys remuneration policy is to: bonus.
This bonus is paid in cash after the end of the financial year to which it relates.
The maximum bonus provide those packages required to attract, retain and attainable represents 50% of salary for the year.
motivate directors and senior executives of high quality.
align directors and senior executives long-term interests Annual profits before tax, excluding exceptional items, with those of shareholders.
in the year ended 29 July 2012, increased by 8%.
incentivise directors and senior executives to perform Accordingly, executive directors received 12% of their to a high level.
salary as a cash bonus based on profitability, plus 5% for performance against key service standards.
In fixing remuneration, we take account of the leisure industry and also the remuneration structure throughout The executive directors also receive bonuses in shares the organisation.
For example, the Company awarded under the Share Incentive Plan and the 2005 Deferred bonuses and shares for employees of 24.1 million in the Bonus Scheme, as described below.
year, 98.5% of which were made to employees below board level.
This amount is included in total wages and Pension provision salaries in note 4 to these financial statements.
The Company makes contributions to personal pension schemes on behalf of all staff who opt to participate in Overall reward levels are subject to the discretion of the these schemes, including executive directors and senior remuneration committee and depend partly on the executives.
It does not operate any defined benefit achievement of corporate performance targets and partly pension schemes.
on the performance of the individual.
The Company measures the performance of the executive directors in Share schemes respect of several main areas, including: Company employees at all levels, with at least 18 Annual growth in profits before tax months service are entitled to receive shares under the Annual growth in owners earnings cash profits Share Incentive Plan, while executive directors also per share receive bonuses in shares under the 2005 Deferred Standards of service and amenities in the pubs Bonus Scheme, as described below.
The number and quality of pub calls carried out by each executive director 52 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
