Shareholder information: Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and requires your 11.
Appointment of auditor immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the about what action you should take you are Company to hold office from the conclusion of the recommended to consult your financial adviser.
AGM to the conclusion of the next general meeting at If you have sold or transferred all of your ordinary which Annual Accounts are laid before the Company.
shares in John Menzies plc, you should forward this document, together with accompanying 12.
Remuneration of auditor documents, to the purchaser or transferee or To authorise the Directors to fix the auditors to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through remuneration.
whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Authority to allot shares That the Directors be and are hereby generally and Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting unconditionally authorised, pursuant to section 551 of AGM of John Menzies plc the Company will be held the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to exercise all in the Roxburghe Hotel, 38 Charlotte Square, Edinburgh powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company on Friday, 17 May 2013 at 2pm the Meeting to transact and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any the following business: security into, shares in the Company, such rights and shares together being relevant securities: Ordinary resolutions: To consider and, if thought fit, pass Resolutions 1-13, a otherwise than pursuant to paragraph b below, each of which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution: uptoan aggregate nominal amount of 5,054,080 such amount to be reduced by the aggregate 1.
Report and Accounts nominal amount of any equity securities as defined To receive the Directors Report and Annual by section 560 of the 2006 Act allotted under Accounts of the Company for the financial paragraph b below in excess of 5,054,080: and year ended 31 December 2012 and the Report of the Auditors thereon.
b comprising equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 10,108,161 such amount to 2.
Remuneration Report be reduced by the nominal amount of any relevant To approve the Report on Directors Remuneration for securities allotted under paragraph a above in the financial year ended 31 December 2012. connection with an offer by way of a rights issue to: i holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the 3. Dividend Company in proportion as nearly as may be To declare a final dividend of 17.85 pence per ordinary practicable to their respective holdings: and ii share for the financial year ended 31 December 2012. holders of equity securities in the capital of the Company as required by the rights of those securities 4-10.
Re-election of Directors or as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, 4.
To re-elect Ian Harley as a Director.
but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient 5.
To re-elect Dermot Jenkinson as a Director.
to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal or practical problems arising under 6.
To re-elect Octavia Morley as a Director.
the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue 7.
To re-elect Eric Born as a Director.
of shares being represented by depository receipts or any other matter: 8.
To re-elect Craig Smyth as a Director.
To re-elect David McIntosh as a Director.
To re-elect Iain Napier as a Director.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 100 And provided that unless previously renewed, varied b the allotment pursuant to the authority granted by or revoked this authority shall expire at the conclusion paragraph a of the Section 551 Resolution otherwise of the next AGM of the Company or, if earlier, on than pursuant to paragraph a of this resolution to 30 June 2014 save that the Company shall be entitled any person or persons of equity securities up to an to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such aggregate nominal amount of 758,112, representing authority which would or might require relevant securities approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors shall be of the Company as at 2 April 2013: entitled to allot relevant securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this And unless previously renewed, varied or revoked this resolution had not expired.
This authority is in substitution power shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM for and to the exclusion of all unexercised existing of the Company or, if earlier, on 30 June 2014 save authorities previously granted to the Directors under the that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or 2006 Act but without prejudice to any allotment of shares agreements before the expiry of such power which or grants of rights already made, offered or agreed to be would or might require equity securities to be allotted made pursuant to such authorities.
after such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or Special resolutions: agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not To consider, and if thought fit, pass Resolutions 14-17, expired.
This power is in substitution for and to the each of which will be proposed as a Special Resolution: exclusion of all unexercised existing powers previously granted to the Directors under sections 570 and 573 of 14.
Authority to disapply pre-emption rights the 2006 Act but without prejudice to any allotment of That, subject to the passing of Resolution 13 in the equity securities already made or agreed to be made Notice of AGM of the Company dated 5 April 2013 pursuant to such powers.
the Section 551 Resolution the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to section 570 and 15.
Purchase of own ordinary shares by Company section 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act That the Company be and is hereby authorised pursuant to exercise all powers of the Company to allot equity to section 701 of the 2006 Act to make market purchases securities within the meaning of sections 560 1 - 3 of within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the 2006 Act of the 2006 Act wholly for cash pursuant to the authority its own ordinary shares of 25p each, on such terms and conferred by the Section 551 Resolution and or by way in such manner as the Directors may from time to time ofa sale of treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the determine, provided that: 2006 Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to: a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 6,064,896 representing a the allotment of equity securities in connection with approximately 10% of the Companys issued an offer or issue of equity securities but, in the case ordinary share capital as at 2 April 2013: of an allotment pursuant to the authority granted under paragraph b of the Section 551 Resolution, such b the maximum price which may be paid for each such power shall be limited to the allotment of equity ordinary share under this authority shall be the higher securities in connection with a rights issue only to: of: i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the i the holders of ordinary shares in the capital of middle market quotations for any such ordinary share the Company in proportion as nearly as may be of the Company as derived from the London Stock practicable to their respective holdings: and ii the Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 business days holders of equity securities in the capital of the immediately prior to the date of conclusion of the Company as required by the rights of those securities contract for any such purchase: and ii the amount or as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, but stipulated by Article 5 1 of the EU Buy-back and subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as Stabilisation Regulation 2003 being the higher of the the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to price of the last independent trade and the highest deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, current independent bid for an ordinary share in the record dates, or legal or practical problems arising Company on the trading venues where the market under the laws of any overseas territory or the purchases by the Company pursuant to the authority requirements of any regulatory body or stock conferred by this Resolution will be carried out, and exchange or by virtue of shares being represented the minimum price which may be paid for any such by depository receipts or any other matter: and ordinary shares is 25p, in each case exclusive of the expenses of purchase if any payable by the Company: and John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 101 Shareholder information: Notice of Annual General Meeting continued c the authority hereby conferred shall expire unless c the authority hereby conferred shall expire unless previously revoked, varied or renewed at the previously revoked, varied or renewed at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or at conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or at the close of business on 30 June 2014, whichever is the close of business on 30 June 2014, whichever earlier, except in relation to the purchase of ordinary is earlier, except in relation to the purchase of 9% shares for which a contract was concluded before cumulative preference shares for which a contract the authority expired and which might or will be was concluded before the authority expired and executed wholly or partly after its expiration and the which might or will be executed wholly or partly Company may make such a purchase in pursuance of after its expiration and the Company may make such contract as if the authority hereby conferred had such a purchase in pursuance of such contract as not expired.
if the authority hereby conferred had not expired.
Purchase of own preference shares by Company 17.
Length of Notice of Meeting That the Company be and is hereby authorised pursuant That a general meeting of the Company, other than an to section 701 of the 2006 Act to make market purchases AGM, may be called on not less than 14 clear days within the meaning of section 693 4 of the 2006 Act notice.
of its own 9% cumulative preference shares of 1 each, on such terms and in such manner as the Directors may By order of the Board from time to time determine, provided that: J F A Geddes a the maximum number of 9% cumulative preference Company Secretary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 5 April 2013 1,394,587, representing 100% of the Companys issued 9% cumulative preference share capital as at 2 April 2013: b the maximum price which may be paid for each such 9% cumulative preference share under this authority shall be the higher of: i an amount equal to 110% of the average of the middle market quotations for any such 9% cumulative preference share of the Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately prior to the date of conclusion of the contract for any such purchase: and ii the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the EU Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 being the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for a 9% cumulative preference share in the Company on the trading venues where the market purchases by the Company pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution will be carried out, and the minimum price which may be paid for any such 9% cumulative preference shares is 1, in each case exclusive of the expenses of purchase if any payable by the Company: and John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 102 The Board considers it appropriate that Directors again Explanatory notes be granted authority to allot shares in the capital of The following information provides additional background the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of information to several of the Resolutions proposed: 10,108,161 representing the guideline limit of approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued Resolutions 4-10 Re-election of Directors ordinary share capital as at 2 April 2013.
Of this amount, Biographical details of the Directors to re-elected can 20,216,322 shares, representing one-third be found on pages 34 and 35 of the Annual Report of the Companys issued ordinary share capital can and Accounts for the year ended December 2012.
In only be allotted pursuant to a rights issue.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the Directors will retire at the The power will last until the conclusion of the next AGMand seek re-election except Paul Dollman and AGM of the Company or, if earlier, 30 June 2014.
IanHarrison who opted to stand down from the Board.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority, although they have confirmed that, In proposing the re-election of the Directors, the should thepower authorised in Resolution 13 part b Chairman has confirmed that, following formal be utilisedthen all Directors would stand for re-election performance evaluation described on page 39 of the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended atthe next AGM.
31 December 2012, each individual continues to As at 2 April 2013, the Company held 642,689 ordinary make an effective and valuable contribution to the shares in the capital of the Company as treasury shares.
Board and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Resolution 14 will, if passed, give the Directors power, Resolutions 13 and 14 Authority to allot shares pursuant to the authority to allot granted under Resolution and disapply pre-emption rights 13, to allot equity securities as defined in sections 560 The Association of British Insurers ABI guidelines 1 - 3 of the 2006 Act or sell treasury shares for cash issued in December 2008 state that ABI members will on a non-pre-emptive basis without first offering them permit, and treat as routine, resolutions seeking authority toexisting shareholders in proportion to their existing to allot shares representing up to two-thirds of the shareholdings in limited circumstances.
In light of the Companys issued share capital.
The guidelines provide ABIguidelines described in relation to Resolution 13 that the extra routine authority that is the authority to above, this authority will permit the Directors to allot allot shares representing the additional one-third of the equity securities: Companys issued share capital can only be used to allot shares pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
a in relation to a pre-emptive rights issue only, up to a maximum nominal amount of 10,108,161 At the AGM of the Company held on 18 May 2012, representing approximately two-thirds of the theDirectors followed these guidelines and were given Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding authority to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate treasury shares as at 2 April 2013: and nominal amount of 10,016,450, representing approximately two-thirds of the issued share capital of the Company asat 2 April 2012.
This authority is due to b in any other case up to a maximum nominal value of 758,112, representing approximately 5% of the expire at the end of this years AGM.
issued share capital of the Company as at 2 April 2013 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice otherwise than in connection with an offer to existing shareholders.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority and the authority, if granted, will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or, if earlier, on 30 June 2014.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 103 Shareholder information: Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Resolutions 15 and 16 Authority to buy back shares Resolution 17 Length of Notice of Meeting These special resolutions give the Company authority Before the introduction of the Companies Shareholders to make market purchases of its own ordinary and 9% Rights Regulations 2009 in August 2009, the minimum cumulative preference shares in the market as permitted notice period permitted by the 2006 Act for general by the 2006 Act.
The authorities set the minimum and meetings other than AGMs was 14 days.
One of the maximum prices and limit the number of shares that amendments made to the 2006 Act by the Regulations could be purchased to 6,064,896 ordinary shares was to increase the minimum notice period for general representing approximately 10% of the issued ordinary meetings of listed companies to 21 days, but with share capital as at 2 April 2013 and 1,394,587 9% the ability for companies to reduce this period back cumulative preference shares representing 100% of to 14days other than for AGMs provided that the issued 9% cumulative preference shares as at 2 conditions are met.
The first condition is that a 2 April 2013. company offers a facility for shareholders to vote by electronic means.
This condition is met if a company The authorities, if granted, will expire at the conclusion offers a facility, accessible to all shareholders, to of the next AGM of the Company, or, if earlier, appoint a proxy by means of a website.
The Directors have no present intention condition is that there is an annual resolution of of exercising the authority to purchase the Companys shareholders approving the reduction of the minimum 9% cumulative preference shares, but will keep the notice period from 21 days to 14 days.
The Directors matter under review, taking into account the financial have confirmed that they will only use the shorter resources of the Company, the Companys share price notice period in limited circumstances where the and future funding opportunities.
The authority will only proposal in question is time sensitive and the short be exercised if the Directors believe that to do so would notice would clearly be to the advantage of result in an increase in earnings per share and would be shareholders as a whole.
in the interests of shareholders generally.
The Board is therefore proposing Resolution 17 as a As at 2 April 2013, the Company holds 642,689 ordinary special resolution and for it to be effective until the shares in the capital of the Company as treasury shares.
Companys next AGM when it is intended to propose It may make purchases of its own ordinary shares, taking that the approval be renewed.
into account the financial resources of the Company, the Companys share price and future funding opportunities.
Recommendation The authority will only be exercised if the Directors The Directors consider all these resolutions to be in the believe that to do so would result in an increase in best interests of the Company and its shareholders as earnings per share and would be in the interests of a whole, consistent with the Directors duty to act in the shareholders generally.
Any purchases of ordinary shares way most likely to promote the success of the Company would be by means of market purchases through the for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole, and London Stock Exchange.
unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of them.
Listed companies purchasing their own shares are allowed to hold them in treasury as an alternative to cancelling them.
No dividends are paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights attach to treasury shares.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 104 9.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to Notes to the Notice of AGM 1.
Information about the Meeting is available from the the appointment of proxies in Notes 2, 3 and 4 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights Companys website: www.
described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by members of the Company.
As a member, you are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of your rights to attend, 10.
As at 2 April 2013, the Companys issued ordinary speak and vote at the Meeting.
A proxy need not be share capital comprised 61,291,656 ordinary shares a member of the Company.
You may appoint more of 25p each, and the Company held 642,689 of its than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to own ordinary shares of 25p each in Treasury.
Each exercise rights attached to different shares.
You may ordinary share carries the right to one vote at a not appoint more than one proxy to exercise the general meeting of the Company and, therefore, the rights attached to any one share.
total number of voting rights in the Company as at 2 April 2013 is 60,648,967.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
To be valid, your form of proxy and any power of attorney or other authority, 11.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or if any, under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of that power of attorney or authority should be proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting sent to Computershare Investor Services at The and any adjournment s thereof by utilising the Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ so procedures described in the CREST Manual.
as to arrive no later than 48 hours before the CREST personal members or other CREST commencement of the Meeting.
sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, 4.
It is possible for you to submit your proxy votes online.
Further information on this service can be should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the found on your proxy form, or if you receive appropriate action on their behalf.
communications from us electronically, voting information will be contained within your email 12.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of broadcast.
CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly 5.
If you appoint a proxy, this will not prevent you authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & attending the Meeting and voting in person if you Ireland Limiteds EUI specifications and must wish to do so.
contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The right to vote at the Meeting is determined by must be transmitted so as to be received by the reference to the Companys register of members as issuers agent ID 3RA50 so as to arrive no later than at the close of business on Wednesday 15 May 2013 48 hours before the commencement of the Meeting.
or, if the Meeting is adjourned, at 5:00pm on the day For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to two days prior to the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on that register after that time shall be be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the Shareholder information message by the disregarded in determining the rights of any member CREST Applications Host from which the issuers to attend and vote at the Meeting.
agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
A s a member, you have the right to put questions at the Meeting relating to the business being dealt with 13.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST at the Meeting.
sponsors or voting service providers should note that EUI does not make available special procedures in 8.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system person nominated under section 146 of the 2006 Act timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the may, under an agreement between them and the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to member by whom they were nominated, have a right take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Meeting.
If a Nominated Person member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST has no such proxy appointment right or does not sponsor or voting service provider s take s such wish to exercise it, they may, under any such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a agreement, have a right to give instructions to the message is transmitted by means of the CREST member as to the exercise of voting rights.
system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 105 Shareholder information: Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 14.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Documents Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out The following documents are available for inspection in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated on any day except Saturday, Sunday and Bank Holidays Securities Regulations 2001. from the date of sending this Notice of AGM up to and including the date of the Meeting during usual business 15.
Under section 338 of the 2006 Act, members may hours at the registered office of the Company and at the require the Company to give, to members of the offices of Maclay Murray & Spens LLP, One London Wall, Company entitled to receive this Notice of Meeting, London EC2Y 5AB.
On the date of the Meeting, they will notice of a resolution which may properly be moved be available for inspection at the venue of the Meeting and is intended to be moved at the Meeting.
Under from 1pm until the conclusion of the Meeting: section 338A of that Act, members may request the Company to include in the business to be dealt with a copies of the Directors service contracts with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed the Company: resolution which may properly be included in the business.
b the terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Meeting: or ii any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the 2006 Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the 2006 Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the 2006 Act to publish on a website.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 106
