Shareholder information: Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and requires your 11.
Appointment of auditor immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the about what action you should take you are Company to hold office from the conclusion of the recommended to consult your financial adviser.
AGM to the conclusion of the next general meeting at If you have sold or transferred all of your ordinary which Annual Accounts are laid before the Company.
shares in John Menzies plc, you should forward this document, together with accompanying 12.
Remuneration of auditor documents, to the purchaser or transferee or To authorise the Directors to fix the auditors to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through remuneration.
whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Authority to allot shares That the Directors be and are hereby generally and Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting unconditionally authorised, pursuant to section 551 of AGM of John Menzies plc the Company will be held the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to exercise all in the Roxburghe Hotel, 38 Charlotte Square, Edinburgh powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company on Friday, 17 May 2013 at 2pm the Meeting to transact and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any the following business: security into, shares in the Company, such rights and shares together being relevant securities: Ordinary resolutions: To consider and, if thought fit, pass Resolutions 1-13, a otherwise than pursuant to paragraph b below, each of which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution: uptoan aggregate nominal amount of 5,054,080 such amount to be reduced by the aggregate 1.
Report and Accounts nominal amount of any equity securities as defined To receive the Directors Report and Annual by section 560 of the 2006 Act allotted under Accounts of the Company for the financial paragraph b below in excess of 5,054,080: and year ended 31 December 2012 and the Report of the Auditors thereon.
b comprising equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 10,108,161 such amount to 2.
Remuneration Report be reduced by the nominal amount of any relevant To approve the Report on Directors Remuneration for securities allotted under paragraph a above in the financial year ended 31 December 2012. connection with an offer by way of a rights issue to: i holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the 3. Dividend Company in proportion as nearly as may be To declare a final dividend of 17.85 pence per ordinary practicable to their respective holdings: and ii share for the financial year ended 31 December 2012. holders of equity securities in the capital of the Company as required by the rights of those securities 4-10.
Re-election of Directors or as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, 4.
To re-elect Ian Harley as a Director.
but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient 5.
To re-elect Dermot Jenkinson as a Director.
to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal or practical problems arising under 6.
To re-elect Octavia Morley as a Director.
the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue 7.
To re-elect Eric Born as a Director.
of shares being represented by depository receipts or any other matter: 8.
To re-elect Craig Smyth as a Director.
To re-elect David McIntosh as a Director.
To re-elect Iain Napier as a Director.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 100
