Financial statements: Notes to the Accounts The consolidated accounts of the Group for the year Improvements to IFRS May 2012 effective date 1January 2013 ended 31 December 2012 were approved and authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors Expected effective date in EU.
IASB effective date 1January 2013. on 4 March 2013.
John Menzies plc is a limited company incorporated in Scotland and is listed on the London The above standards and interpretations will be adopted Stock Exchange.
in accordance with their effective dates and have not been adopted in these financial statements.
Accounting policies Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these A summary of the more significant accounting policies, standards and interpretations will have a material impact which have been consistently applied, is set out below.
on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application with the exception of IAS19 revised.
New Accounting Standards and Interpretations The following standards and interpretations have been Under IAS19R the interest cost on the defined benefit adopted in these accounts and have not had a material obligation, and the expected rate of return on plan impact on the Groups accounts in the period of initial assets, will be replaced with a net interest charge that application: is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability.
The impact on the results for IAS 1 Presentation of items in other comprehensive the year ended 31 December 2013 will be to increase net income effective date 1 July 2012 operating costs by 1.0m and to increase pension related finance charges by 1.3m.
In addition, amortisation IAS 12 Income Taxes Amendment Deferred Taxes: for benefits that do not vest immediately is eliminated Recovery of underlying assets effective date resulting in an increase to net operating costs of 1.0m.
1 January 2012 The deficit at 31 December 2012 would reduce by 5.6m.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments : Disclosures Amendment For these standards with a later effective date, the Transfers of Financial Assets effective date directors are in the process of assessing the likely impact 1 January 2012 and look to finalisation of the standards before formalising their view.
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued but are not effective As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 for 2012 and have not been early adopted: no income statement is presented by the Company.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised effective date Basis of consolidation 1January 2013 The consolidated accounts, which have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with IFRS 10, 11, 12 Transition Guidance Amendments EU Endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards effective date 1 January 2013 IFRS, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, incorporate IFRS 7 Financial Instruments : Disclosures Amendment the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries, joint Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities ventures and associates from the effective date of effective date 1 January 2013 acquisition or to the date of deemed disposal.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective date The consolidated accounts of the Group include the 1January 2013 assets, liabilities and results of the Company and subsidiary undertakings in which John Menzies plc IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective has a controlling interest, using accounts drawn up to date 1 January 2014 31December except where entities have non-coterminus year ends.
In such cases, the information is based on the IFRS 11 Joint Ventures effective date 1 January 2013 accounting period of these entities and is adjusted for material changes up to 31 December.
Accordingly, the IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities information consolidated is deemed to cover the same effective date 1 January 2014 period for all entities throughout the Group.
IAS 32 Financial instruments : Offsetting Financial Assets Restatement and Liabilities Amendments to IAS32 effective date During the year the provisional fair value attributed to the 1January 2014 2011 acquisition of Swissport Menzies was finalised.
The effect has been to increase the exceptional gain recorded IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2015 in 2011 on the assets exchanged in the acquisition by 4.2m to 8.2m, increase the amortisation of intangible IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements effective assets by 0.2m and to increase the exchange loss 1January 2014 recognised in other comprehensive income by 0.3m to 8.8m.
In the balance sheet the effect is to increase the IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures carrying value of intangible assets by 3.7m to 108.8m.
effective date 1 January 2014 See Notes 5 and 24.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 64 The company balance sheet reflects a reclassification of returns on assets during the year, including changes in 8.3m Treasury shares held at 31 December 2011 from actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the statement Trade and other receivables to Shareholders equity aligning of comprehensive income.
with the historic treatment in the Group balance sheet.
Pension costs are assessed in accordance with the Joint ventures and associates advice of qualified actuaries.
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and which is jointly With regard to defined contribution schemes, the income controlled by the Group and one or more other statement charge represents contributions made.
Pension financing costs are shown separately in the An associate is an undertaking, not being a subsidiary income statement.
or joint venture, over which the Group has significant influence and can participate in the financial and Taxation operating policy decisions of the entity.
Current tax is the amount of tax payable or recoverable in respect of the taxable profit or loss for the period.
The Groups share of the results of joint ventures and associates is included in the Group Income Statement Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in on temporary differences between the carrying amount joint ventures and associates are carried in the Group of an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its tax Balance Sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in base.
Deferred tax arising from the initial recognition of the Groups share of the net assets of the entity, less any an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business impairment in value.
The carrying values of investments combination, that at the time of the transaction affects in joint ventures and associates include acquired goodwill.
neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not recognised.
Deferred tax liabilities represent tax payable Revenue in future periods in respect of taxable temporary Distribution revenue is recognised on the weekly differences.
Deferred tax assets represent tax dispatched value of goods sold, excluding value-added recoverable in future periods in respect of deductible tax.
Product is sold to UK retailers on a sale or return temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax basis.
Revenue for goods supplied with a right of return losses and the carry forward of unused tax credits.
is stated net of the value of any returns.
Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates and tax Aviation cargo revenue is recognised at the point of laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at departure for exports and at the point that the goods are the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when ready for dispatch for imports.
Other ramp, passenger the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax and aviation-related services income is recognised at the liability is settled.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary time the service is provided in accordance with the terms differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint of the contract.
Revenue excludes value-added and sales ventures and associates, except where the timing of the taxes, charges collected on behalf of customers and reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled intercompany transactions.
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
A deferred tax asset is Property, plant and equipment recognised only to the extent that it is probable that Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, including future taxable profits will be available against which the acquisition expenses, less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at the following rates: Current and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement except if it relates to an item recognised Freehold and long leasehold properties over 50 years directly in equity or in other comprehensive income, Short leasehold properties over the remaining in which case it is recognised directly in equity or in the lease term Group Statement of Comprehensive Income respectively.
Plant and equipment over the estimated life of the asset between 3 and 20 years.
Intangible assets Goodwill Inventories Business combinations from 1 January 2010 are Inventories, being goods for resale and consumables, accounted using the acquisition method.
The cost of are stated at the lower of purchase cost and net an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the realisable value.
consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest Pensions in the acquiree.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed The operating and financing costs of pensions are and included in administrative expenses.
charged to the income statement in the period in which they arise and are recognised separately.
The costs of Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 26 December past service benefit enhancements, settlements and 2004 the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at curtailments are also recognised in the period in which the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested they arise.
The difference between actual and expected for impairment at that date.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 65 Financial statements: Notes to the Accounts continued Trade receivables 1.
Accounting policies continued Goodwill acquired is recognised as an asset and reviewed If there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original for impairment at least annually by assessing the terms of an invoice, a provision on the respective trade recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit to receivable is recognised.
In such an instance, the carrying which the goodwill relates.
When the recoverable value of the receivable is reduced, with the amount of the amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the loss recognised in the income statement.
carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Any impairment is recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise Goodwill arising on the acquisition of joint ventures cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an and associates is included within the carrying value original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts of the investment.
are shown within borrowings in current liabilities in the balance sheet.
Contracts The fair value attributed to contracts at the point of Foreign currencies acquisition is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows to be generated from that asset at the Foreign currency assets and liabilities of the Group are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital for the sheet date.
The trading results of overseas subsidiaries, Group.
This amount is included in intangible assets as joint ventures and associates are translated at the contracts and amortised over the estimated useful life average exchange rate ruling during the year, with the on a straight-line basis.
Separate values are not attributed exchange difference between average rates and the rates to internally-generated customer relationships.
ruling at the balance sheet date being taken to reserves.
Contract amortisation is business-stream dependent.
Any differences arising on the translation of the opening At Distribution, publisher distribution contracts capitalised net investment, including goodwill, in overseas are not amortised due to the very long-term nature of the subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, and of business in the UK.
These contracts are, however, tested applicable foreign currency loans, are dealt with as annually for impairment using similar criteria to the adjustments to reserves.
All other exchange differences goodwill test.
At Aviation and for non-publisher related are dealt with in the income statement.
contracts in Distribution, contracts are amortised on a straight-line basis over 10 years as this period is the Derivative financial instruments and minimum time-frame management considers when hedging activities assessing businesses for acquisition.
The Group uses forward contracts and cross-currency swaps as derivatives to hedge the risk arising from the Computer software retranslation of foreign currency denominated items.
Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programs are recognised as an The Group has derivatives which are designated as expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly attributable with the production of identifiable and unique software hedges of overseas net investments in foreign entities net investment hedges and derivatives which are products controlled by the Group, and that will probably designated as hedges of the exchange risk arising from generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one the retranslation of highly probable forecast revenue year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs denominated in non-local currency of some of our include the costs of software development employees.
overseas operations cash flow hedges.
Costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives, usually three to five years.
In all cases, the derivative contracts entered into by the Group have been highly effective during the reporting Leases period, and are expected to continue to be highly Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the effective until they expire.
As a result, all derivatives terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and have been recorded using hedge accounting, which rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are is explained below.
Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised All derivatives are measured at fair value, which is calculated as the present value of all future cash flows in the balance sheet at their fair value or, if lower, at from the derivative discounted at prevailing market rates.
the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The Changes in the fair value of the effective portion of net corresponding liability to the lessor is recorded in the investment hedges are recorded in equity, and are only balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
The lease recycled to the income statement on disposal of the payments are apportioned between finance charges overseas net investment.
charged to the income statement and a reduction of the lease obligations.
Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over applicable lease periods.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 66 Changes in the fair value of the effective portion of Intangible assets cash flow hedges are recorded in equity until such time On the acquisition of a business it is necessary to as the forecast transaction occurs, at which time they attribute fair values to any intangible assets acquired are recycled to the income statement.
If, however, the provided they meet the criteria to be recognised.
The occurrence of the transaction results in a non-financial fair values of these intangible assets are dependent on asset or liability, then amounts recycled from equity estimates of attributable future revenues, margins and would be included in the cost of the non-financial asset cashflows, as well as appropriate discount rates.
If the forecast transaction remains probable addition, the allocation of useful lives to acquired but ceases to be highly probable then, from that point, intangible assets requires the application of judgement changes in fair value would be recorded in the income based on available information and management statement within finance costs.
Similarly, if the forecast expectations at the time of recognition.
transaction ceases to be probable then the entire fair value recorded in equity and future changes in fair value Impairment would be posted to the income statement within IFRS requires companies to carry out impairment testing finance costs.
on any assets that show indications of impairment and annually on goodwill and intangibles that are not subject Provisions to amortisation.
This testing involves exercising Provisions are recognised when the Group has a management judgement about future cash flows and present obligation legal or constructive as a result of other events which are, by their nature, uncertain.
a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle Retirement benefits the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of The assumptions underlying the calculation of retirement the amount of the obligation.
benefits are important and based on independent advice.
Changes in these assumptions could have a material Share capital impact on the measurement of the Groups retirement Ordinary shares are classed as equity.
Company purchases its own shares the consideration paid including any directly attributable incremental Income taxes costs, is deducted from the equity attributable to the The Group is subject to income tax in numerous Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, jurisdictions and significant judgement is required in reissued or disposed of.
determining the provision for tax.
There are transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination Share-based payments is uncertain.
The Group recognises provisions for tax Equity-settled share-based payments are measured based on estimates of the taxes that are likely to become at fair value at the date of grant and recognised as an due.
Where the final tax outcome is different from the expense over the vesting period.
The amount recognised amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of impact the current income tax and deferred tax provisions share options that vest unless the options do not vest as in the period in which such determination is made.
a result of a failure to satisfy market conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of a relevant pricing model.
Transactions which may give rise to exceptional items include restructurings of business activities in terms Use of estimates and judgements of rationalisation costs and onerous lease provisions The preparation of the consolidated accounts requires and gains or losses on the disposal of businesses.
management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting Dividend distributions policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, Final ordinary dividends are recognised as liabilities in income and expenses.
These estimates will, by the accounts in the period in which the dividends are definition, seldom equal the related actual results approved by the Companys shareholders.
particularly so given the prevailing difficult economic conditions and the level of uncertainty regarding their Financial risk factors duration and severity.
The Group is exposed to financial risks: liquidity risk, interest rate fluctuations, foreign exchange exposures Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on and credit risk.
These are more fully discussed in the an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are Group Financial Review on pages 20 to 25. recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The most important estimates and judgements are set out below.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 67
