John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2012 98 Notes to the Company financial statements for the year to 31 December 2012 Accounting policies The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom.
A summary of the principal accounting policies which have been consistently applied, is set out below.
Reporting currency The Companys transactions are primarily US dollar denominated and the principal functional currency is the US dollar.
The following sterling to US dollar exchange rates have been used in the preparation of these accounts: 2012 2011 Average rate 1 $ 1.5845 1.6041 Closing rate 1 $ 1.6255 1.5541 Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are included in the balance sheet of the Company at cost less any provision for impairment.
Impairment The Company performs impairment reviews in respect of xed asset investments whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised when the recoverable amount of an asset, which is the higher of the assets net realisable value and its value in use, is less than its carrying amount.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction or, where forward contracts have been arranged, at the contractual rates.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet dates or at a contractual rate if applicable and any exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
The directors consider it appropriate to record sterling-denominated equity share capital in the accounts of John Wood Group PLC at the exchange rate ruling on the date it was raised.
Financial instruments The accounting policy for financial instruments is consistent with the Group accounting policy as presented in the notes to the Group financial statements with the exception of the policy on net investment hedges which does not apply to the Company.
The Companys financial risk management policy is consistent with the Groups financial risk management policy outlined in note 17 to the Group financial statements.
Use of estimates The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Employee share trusts The Company is deemed to have control of the assets, liabilities, income and costs of its employee share trusts.
They have therefore been included in the financial statements of the Company.
Under UITF 38 the cost of shares held by the employee share trusts is deducted from shareholders funds.
