Our business Operational review Governance Financial statements 57 Notes to the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2012 Accounting policies continued Foreign currencies Income statements of entities whose functional currency is not the US dollar are translated into US dollars at average rates of exchange for the period and assets and liabilities are translated into US dollars at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation of net assets in such entities held at the beginning of the year, together with those differences resulting from the restatement of profits and losses from average to year end rates, are taken to the currency translation reserve.
In each individual entity, transactions in overseas currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction.
Where more than one exchange rate is available, the appropriate rate at which assets can be readily realised and liabilities can be extinguished is used.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The directors consider it appropriate to record sterling denominated equity share capital in the accounts of John Wood Group PLC at the exchange rate ruling on the date it was raised.
Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the Groups activities.
Revenue is recognised only when it is probable that the economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are rendered, including where they are based on contractual rates per man hour in respect of multi-year service contracts.
Incentive performance revenue is recognised upon completion of agreed objectives.
Revenue from product sales is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, which is normally upon delivery of products and customer acceptance, if any.
Revenue is stated net of sales taxes such as VAT and discounts.
Revenue on lump sum contracts for services, construction contracts and xed-price long-term service agreements is recognised according to the stage of completion reached in the contract by measuring the proportion of costs incurred for work performed to total estimated costs.
An estimate of the profit attributable to work completed is recognised, on a basis that the directors consider to be prudent, once the outcome of the contract can be estimated reliably, which is when a contract is not less than 20% complete.
Expected losses are recognised in full as soon as losses are probable.
The net amount of costs incurred to date plus recognised profits less the sum of recognised losses and progress billings is disclosed as trade receivables trade payables.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those significant items which are separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Transactions which may give rise to exceptional items include gains and losses on divestment of businesses, write downs or impairments of assets including goodwill, restructuring costs or provisions, litigation settlements, acquisition costs and one-off gains and losses arising from currency devaluations.
Finance expense income Interest income and expense is recorded in the income statement in the period to which it relates.
Arrangement fees in respect of the Groups borrowing facilities are amortised over the period to which the facility relates.
Interest relating to the discounting of deferred and contingent consideration liabilities is included in finance expense.
Dividends Dividends to the Groups shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Goodwill The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for acquisitions.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Acquisition costs are expensed in the income statement.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Intangible assets are recognised if it is probable that there will be future economic benets attributable to the asset, the cost of the asset can be measured reliably, the asset is separately identiable and there is control over the use of the asset.
Where the Group acquires a business, intangible assets on acquisition such as customer contracts are identied and evaluated to determine the carrying value on the acquisition balance sheet.
Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Software and development costs 3 5 years Intangible assets on acquisition 3 10 years Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment PP&E is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
No depreciation is charged with respect to freehold land and assets in the course of construction.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method over the following estimated useful lives of the assets: Freehold and long leasehold buildings 25 50 years Short leasehold buildings period of lease Plant and equipment 3 10 years When estimating the useful life of an asset group, the principal factors the Group takes into account are the durability of the assets, the intensity at which the assets are expected to be used and the expected rate of technological developments.
Asset lives and residual values are assessed at each balance sheet date.
