John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2012 58 Notes to the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2012 Accounting policies continued Impairment The Group performs impairment reviews in respect of PP&E and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
In addition, the Group carries out annual impairment reviews in respect of goodwill.
An impairment loss is recognised when the recoverable amount of an asset, which is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, is less than its carrying amount.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the appropriate cash generating unit CGU.
The CGUs are aligned to the structure the Group uses to manage its business.
Cash ows are discounted in determining the value in use.
Inventories Inventories, which include materials, work in progress and nished goods and goods for resale, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Service based companies inventories consist of spare parts and other consumables.
Serialised parts are costed using the specic identication method and other materials are generally costed using the first in, first out method.
Product-based companies determine cost by weighted average cost methods using standard costing to gather material, labour and overhead costs.
These costs are adjusted, where appropriate, to correlate closely the standard costs to the actual costs incurred based on variance analysis.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and estimated selling expenses.
Allowance is made for obsolete and slow-moving items, based upon annual usage.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and other short-term bank deposits with maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings in current liabilities.
Where the Group uses pooling arrangements with a right of set-off, overdrafts and cash are netted and included in the appropriate category depending on the net position of the pool.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The provision is determined by reference to previous experience of recoverability for receivables in each market in which the Group operates.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Deferred and contingent consideration Where it is probable that deferred or contingent consideration is payable on the acquisition of a business based on an earn-out arrangement, an estimate of the amount payable is made at the date of acquisition and reviewed regularly thereafter, with any change in the estimated liability being reected in the income statement.
Changes in the estimated liability in respect of acquisitions completed before 31 December 2009 are reected in goodwill.
Where deferred consideration is payable after more than one year the estimated liability is discounted using an appropriate rate of interest.
Taxation The tax charge represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from the profit reported in the income statement due to items that are not taxable or deductible in any period and also due to items that are taxable or deductible in a different period.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the full liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
The principal temporary differences arise from depreciation on PP&E, tax losses carried forward and, in relation to acquisitions, the difference between the fair values of the net assets acquired and their tax base.
Tax rates enacted, or substantially enacted, at the balance sheet date are used to determine deferred tax.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
