John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2012 56 Notes to the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2012 General information John Wood Group PLC, its subsidiaries and joint ventures, provide services to the oil and gas and power generation industries worldwide.
Details of the Groups activities during the year are detailed in the Operational Review.
John Wood Group PLC is a public limited company, incorporated and domiciled in Scotland and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC interpretations adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement.
significant accounting policies The Groups significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements are the result of the consolidation of the financial statements of the Groups subsidiary undertakings from the date of acquisition or up until the date of divestment as appropriate.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies and generally accompanies a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The Groups interests in joint ventures are accounted for using proportional consolidation.
Under this method the Group includes its share of each joint ventures income, expenses, assets, liabilities and cash ows on a line by line basis in the consolidated financial statements.
Transactions between Group subsidiaries are eliminated and transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint venture.
All Group companies apply the Groups accounting policies and prepare financial statements to 31 December.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the year.
These estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions and actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are addressed below.
a Impairment of goodwill The Group carries out impairment reviews whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable.
In addition, the Group carries out an annual impairment review.
An impairment loss is recognised when the recoverable amount of goodwill is less than the carrying amount.
The impairment tests are carried out by CGU Cash Generating Unit and reect the latest Group budgets.
The budgets are based on various assumptions relating to the Groups businesses including assumptions relating to oil prices, resource utilisation, foreign exchange rates, contract awards and contract margins.
The outlook for the Group is discussed in the CEOs Q&A section of the Annual Report.
Pre-tax discount rates of between 11% and 13% have been used to discount the CGU cash ows and a sensitivity analysis has also been performed see note 8. b Revenue recognition Revenue on lump sum contracts for services, construction contracts and xed price long-term service agreements is recognised according to the stage of completion reached in the contract by measuring the proportion of costs incurred for work performed to total estimated costs.
Estimating the costs to completion and therefore the total contract costs is a key judgement in respect of the revenue recognition on these contracts.
c Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities in the period in which such determination is made.
d Retirement benefit liabilities The value of the Groups retirement benefit liabilities is determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
Changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying value of the liability.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate to be used in the actuarial valuation at the end of each financial year following consultation with the retirement benefit scheme actuary.
In determining the rate used, consideration is given to the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds in the currency in which the benets will be paid and that have terms to maturity similar to those of the related retirement benefit obligation.
See note 29 for further details.
Functional currency The Groups earnings stream is primarily US dollars and the principal functional currency is the US dollar, being the most representative currency of the Group.
The Groups financial statements are therefore prepared in US dollars.
The following exchange rates have been used in the preparation of these accounts: 2012 2011 Average rate 1 $ 1.5845 1.6041 Closing rate 1 $ 1.6255 1.5541
