173 Verification and Assurance Non-Financial Data Verification Assurance The board reviews corporate social Johnson Matthey commissioned Corporate responsibility issues as part of its risk Citizenship to provide external assurance management process.
The board believes and commentary on the companys that the measures taken to review the sustainability reporting, comprising the non-financial information provide a suitable non-financial aspects of this years annual level of confidence.
report and related content on the companys Certain human resources data forms website.
Johnson Matthey has chosen to part of Johnson Mattheys accounts which use the AA1000 assurance standard, are subject to external audit.
Other human AA1000AS 2008, as the reference standard resources data, community investment for this years assurance.
data and information relating to charitable Corporate Citizenship has evaluated donations is reviewed and verified by the nature and extent of adherence to the internal experts.
AA1000AS principles of inclusivity, materiality Health and safety data is reviewed by and responsiveness, as well as the quality group health and safety experts and as part of Johnson Mattheys sustainability of the group environment, health and safety performance reporting.
The criteria used to EHS audit programme.
Environmental data assure the sustainability performance data is reviewed by group environmental experts were the GRI G3 Principles for Defining and as part of the group EHS audit Report Quality and the Greenhouse Gas programme.
Protocol Corporate Accounting and All data is reviewed by internal Reporting Standard Revised Edition for sustainability experts and at appropriate greenhouse gas reporting.
levels of management up to and including Based on the work undertaken, the Chief Executives Committee.
Corporate Citizenship has concluded that Johnson Matthey utilises external Johnson Mattheys sustainability reporting, specialists on specific sustainability issues.
as outlined above, reflects the principles of Over the past year this has included external AA1000 2008 : inclusivity, materiality and audits or reviews of people management responsiveness.
A full version of Corporate systems, health and safety OHSAS 18001 Citizenships AA1000 Assurance Statement, and environmental management systems which includes opinions on Johnson ISO 14001.
Mattheys adherence to each AA1000AS principle, as well as detailed assurance commentary, is available online at www.
Corporate Citizenship London 31st May 2012 www.
