167 Notes on the Accounts for the year ended 31st March 2012 41 Key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Provisions and contingent liabilities As described in note 28 and the accounting policies, the group and parent company measure provisions and contingent liabilities at managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligations at the balance sheet date.
Taxation The tax payable on profits is determined based on tax laws and regulations that apply in each of the numerous jurisdictions in which the group operates.
Where the precise impact of these laws and regulations is unclear then reasonable estimates may be used to determine the tax charge included in the accounts.
If the tax eventually payable or reclaimable differs from the amounts originally estimated then the difference will be charged or credited in the accounts for the year in which it is determined.
Refining process and stock takes The groups and parent companys refining and fabrication businesses process significant quantities of precious metal and, similar to many industrial activities, losses may arise during processing.
The extent of such losses depends on many factors, including the nature of material being refined, the specific refining processes applied and the processes efficiency.
Judgment is therefore required in estimating the amount of such losses when setting process loss provisions.
In addition stock takes, particularly at the refining businesses, involve estimation of volumes in the refining system and the subsequent assaying of material to assess the precious metal content.
In addition, the results of assaying and therefore the stock take itself are only available some time after the date of the stock take.
In setting process loss provisions and assessing the stock take results management takes account of past experience, ability to extract precious metals from the refining process and other factors when estimating losses and gains.
42 Principal subsidiaries The groups principal subsidiaries at 31st March 2012 are set out below.
Those held directly by the parent company are marked with an asterisk.
All the companies are wholly owned unless otherwise stated.
All the subsidiaries are involved in the principal activities of the group.
A full list of the groups subsidiaries will be attached to the parent companys annual return to be filed with the Registrar of Companies.
Country of Country of incorporation incorporation Europe Asia S. A. Johnson Matthey N. V. Belgium Johnson Matthey Shanghai Catalysts Co. Ltd China Avocado Research Chemicals Limited England Johnson Matthey Shanghai Chemicals Limited China Davy Process Technology Limited England Johnson Matthey Pacific Limited Hong Kong Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells Limited 82.5% England Johnson Matthey India Private Limited India Tracerco Limited England Johnson Matthey Chemicals India Private Limited India Johnson Matthey SAS France Johnson Matthey Japan, Inc. USA Alfa Aesar GmbH & Co KG Germany Johnson Matthey Sdn.
92% Malaysia Johnson Matthey Catalysts Germany GmbH Germany Johnson Matthey Catalysts Korea Limited South Korea Johnson Matthey GmbH Germany Johnson Matthey DOOEL Skopje Macedonia Johnson Matthey BV Netherlands Macfarlan Smith Limited Scotland Johnson Matthey AB Sweden Africa Johnson Matthey & Brandenberger AG Switzerland Johnson Matthey Proprietary Limited South Africa Australasia Johnson Matthey Aust Ltd Australia North America South America The Argent Insurance Co. Limited Bermuda Johnson Matthey Argentina S. A. Argentina Johnson Matthey Limited Canada Johnson Matthey fide Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. Mexico Johnson Matthey Inc. USA Johnson Matthey Catalog Company Inc. USA Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells, Inc. 82.5% USA Johnson Matthey Pharmaceutical Materials, Inc. USA Intercat, Inc. USA 168 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Other Information Shareholdings, summaries, the glossary and index
