127 Accounting Policies for the year ended 31st March 2012 The groups and parent companys significant accounting policies, together with the judgments made by management in applying those policies which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the accounts, are: Basis of accounting and preparation The accounts are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC or the Standing Interpretations Committee SIC as adopted by the European Union.
For Johnson Matthey, there are no differences between IFRS as adopted by the European Union and full IFRS as published by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and so the accounts comply with IFRS.
The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value as explained below.
The consolidated accounts for 31st March 2011 have been restated for measurement period adjustments to the fair values of the Intercat, Inc. acquisition note 39.
Also, cost of sales and distribution costs for the year ended 31st March 2011 have been represented by 9.0 million following a reclassification of certain employee costs out of distribution costs in one of the groups businesses to better reflect the nature of the costs.
The parent company has not presented its own income statement, statement of total comprehensive income and related notes as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of the parent company and all its subsidiaries, including the employee share ownership trust.
Entities over which the group has the ability to exercise control are accounted for as subsidiaries.
Entities that are not subsidiaries or joint ventures but where the group has significant influence i. e. the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions are accounted for as associates.
The results of businesses acquired or disposed of in the year are consolidated from or up to the effective date of acquisition or disposal respectively.
The net assets of businesses acquired are incorporated in the consolidated accounts at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Transactions and balances between group companies are eliminated.
No profit is taken on transactions between group companies.
Foreign currencies Foreign currency transactions are recorded in the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary or branch at the exchange rate at the date of transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are retranslated into the relevant functional currency at the exchange rate at the balance sheet date.
Income statements and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries and branches are translated into sterling at the average rates for the year.
Balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries and branches, including any fair value adjustments and including related goodwill, are translated into sterling at the exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net investment in overseas subsidiaries and branches, less exchange differences arising on related foreign currency financial instruments which hedge the groups net investment in these operations, are taken to a separate component of equity.
The group has taken advantage of the exemption allowed in IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Reporting Standards to deem the cumulative translation difference for all overseas subsidiaries and branches to be zero at 1st April 2004.
Other exchange differences are taken to operating profit.
Revenue Revenue comprises all sales of goods and rendering of services at the fair value of consideration received or receivable after the deduction of any trade discounts and excluding sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when it can be measured reliably and the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer.
With the sale of goods, this occurs when the goods are despatched or made available to the customer, except for the sale of consignment products located at customers premises where revenue is recognised on notification that the product has been used.
With the rendering of services, revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion as measured by the proportion that costs incurred to date bear to the estimated total costs.
With royalties and licence income, revenue is recognised in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreement.
Long term contracts Where the outcome of a long term contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion.
This is measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred to date bear to the estimated total contract costs.
Where the outcome of a long term contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that the total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Finance costs and finance income Finance costs that are directly attributable to the construction of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use and for which construction was commenced after 1st April 2007 are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
Other finance costs and finance income are recognised in the income statement in the year incurred.
