Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Year ended 31 December 2012 1.
Corporate information In December 2012 the Group signed a five year pre-export finance Kazakhmys PLC the Company is a public limited company facility for $1.0 billion to provide additional liquidity during the period incorporated in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern of the development of the major development projects at Bozshakol Ireland.
The Companys registered address is 6th Floor, Cardinal and Aktogay and for general corporate purposes.
This facility was Place, 100 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL, United Kingdom.
The undrawn at 31 December 2012 and has an availability period of 12 Group comprises the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries.
When drawn, the principal repayments will amortise over a three year period commencing in January 2015 until final maturity in The Group operates in the natural resources industry.
In addition, the Group has $300 million of revolving operations are primarily conducted through the Companys principal credit facilities available for standby liquidity and general corporate division, Kazakhmys Mining, whose major business is the mining and purposes.
These facilities have remained undrawn since inception.
processing of copper ore into copper cathodes and copper rods, and Therefore, the Group has future funding and additional liquidity of the refining and sale of precious metals and other by-products of its $1.3 billion available in the short to medium term, in addition to the copper mining process.
project specific funding for Aktogay of $1.5 billion which is not The Group operates in three divisions within the natural resources yet drawn.
sector, the principal activities of which were as follows during the The Directors have considered the Groups financial position, year ended 31 December 2012: the available borrowing facilities, the planned capital expenditure Primary country programme and the outlook for the Groups products and major Operating division Principal activity of operations projects, and believe there is sufficient funding available to meet Kazakhmys Mining Mining and processing Kazakhstan the Groups anticipated cash flow requirements.
copper and other metals MKM Copper processing Germany After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in Kazakhmys Power Power generation Kazakhstan operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they An entity within Kazakhmys Power, the Maikuben West coal mine continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing for the period until 17 May 2011, the date of its disposal, MKM for the consolidated financial statements.
the 12 month periods ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December b Basis of accounting 2011 and Kazakhmys Petroleum for the period until 23 December The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a 2011, the date of its disposal are included as discontinued operations historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments within the consolidated financial statements see note 37. which have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial The legal names of the constituent companies within the above statements are presented in US dollars $ and all financial divisions are shown in note 39 n on page 154. information has been rounded to the nearest million dollars $ million except when otherwise indicated.
Basis of preparation The financial statements set out on pages 92 to 154 have been c Basis of consolidation prepared using consistent accounting policies.
The Company has The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial taken the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act position as at 31 December 2012 and the Groups financial 2006 and has not published the Companys income statement performance for the year ended 31 December 2012. and related notes.
Subsidiaries are those enterprises controlled by the Group.
Control a Going concern exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as to impact its future growth and operating performance are set out in obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the Operating Review on pages 28 to 41.
The financial performance the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to and position of the Group, its cash flows and available debt facilities be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out are described in the Financial Review on pages 78 to 88.
When the Group ceases to have control, any retained note 33 commencing on page 134 sets out the Groups objectives, interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with the change policies and processes for managing its capital structure, liquidity in carrying amount recognised in the income statement.
The fair position and financial risks arising from exposures to commodity value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently prices, interest rates, foreign exchange and counterparties.
accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously recognised in The Group generated Free Cash Flow of $85 million for the year, other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted and at 31 December 2012, following expenditure on the major for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets projects, the Groups net debt was $707 million with total undrawn or liabilities.
This treatment may mean that amounts previously committed facilities of $3.0 billion.
During 2012, the Group recognised in other comprehensive income are recycled through continued to draw down under its $2.7 billion borrowing facility for the income statement.
the funding of the Groups major development project at Bozshakol and the gold copper project at Bozymchak such that of this facility, The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same $2.5 billion was drawn as at 31 December 2012.
In December 2012, reporting year as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
the Group repaid the outstanding balance under the $2.1 billion preAll intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised export finance facility which was due to be fully repaid by February profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated 2013.
The maturity profile of the Groups outstanding debt is long in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised dated with the total drawn balance of $2.5 billion repayable in gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there maturities extending out for 15 years.
is no evidence of impairment.
com 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 2.
Basis of preparation continued IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, issued in Non-controlling interests primarily represent the interests in May 2011, is a new standard that establishes the disclosure Kazakhmys LLC not held by the Company.
The Company treats requirements for all entities that a Group has an interest in, transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with including subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates, special equity owners of the Company.
For purchases from non-controlling purpose vehicles and other off-balance sheet vehicles.
The interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the standard has been endorsed by the EU and is effective for relevant share of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary the accounting period beginning on 1 January 2014.
The Group acquired is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to nonis yet to assess IFRS 12s full impact on its financial position controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
or performance: IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, issued in May 2011 and Refer to note 39 n for a list of the Companys significant subsidiaries.
endorsed by the EU in December 2012, is a new standard that d Statement of compliance aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity of fair value The consolidated financial statements of the Company and all its measurement techniques adopted in financial statements.
As the subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued requirements, which are largely aligned between IFRSs, do not by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting how it should be applied where its use is already required or Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the IASB, as adopted by the permitted by other standards within IFRSs, the adoption of the European Union EU, and in accordance with the provisions of the standard is not expected to have a material impact on the financial Companies Act 2006. position or performance of the Group.
The effective date for application in the EU has not yet been set: e Adoption of standards and interpretations None of the new standards and interpretations which are applicable IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised, issued in June 2011 and for the first time for the year ended 31 December 2012 issued by endorsed by the EU in June 2012, removes the ability to defer the IASB and which are relevant to the Group has been endorsed recognition of actuarial gains and losses the corridor approach by the EU.
Consequently, the Group has not adopted any of these for defined benefit plans and in some instances may require the standards and interpretations.
recognition of termination benefits earlier than under the previous standard.
The effective date for application in the EU has not yet The Group has not early adopted any standards, interpretations been set.
The Group is yet to assess the full impact of IAS 19 or amendments that were issued but are not yet effective.
Revised on its financial position or performance: f New standards and interpretations not yet adopted IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Group has Mine issued in October 2011 and endorsed by the EU in not applied the following relevant standards and interpretations.
This interpretation applies to the treatment of Groups expectation on when these standards and interpretations waste removal stripping costs incurred in surface mining activity will be adopted is dependent on the date these are effective for during the production phase of a mine.
The effective date for application in the EU: application in the EU has not yet been set.
The Group is yet to assess IFRIC 20s full impact on its financial position or IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IASB effective 1 January 2015, performance: and however, not yet endorsed by the EU.
Based on the nature of Improvements to IFRSs.
There are a number of amendments to the Groups financial assets, the adoption of the standard is not certain standards following the 2011 annual improvements project expected to have a material impact on the financial position which have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The impact of any or performance of the Group: consequential changes to the consolidated financial statements is IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, issued in May 2011, not likely to be significant.
replaces the consolidation requirements in SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate These standards and interpretations will be adopted by the Group Financial Statements.
This standard builds on existing principles on the date that these are effective for application by the EU.
The by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor full assessment of the impact of the adoption of these standards in whether an entity should be included within the consolidated and interpretations in future periods has not been completed and financial statements of the parent company.
The standard provides consequently the potential changes to the reported income or net additional guidance to assist in the determination of control where assets of the Group in the period of initial application and the this is difficult to assess.
The standard has been endorsed by the presentation of these in the consolidated financial statements EU and is effective for the accounting period beginning on 1 has yet to be determined.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 10s full impact g Change in accounting policies on its financial position or performance: There have been no changes to accounting policies during the year.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, issued in May 2011, replaces IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures.
The standard establishes h Comparative information accounting principles based on the rights and obligations of Where a change in the presentation format of the consolidated the joint arrangement rather than its legal form.
The standard financial statements has been made during the year, comparative introduces two types of joint arrangement joint operations and figures have been restated accordingly.
joint ventures and eliminates proportionate consolidation for any form of joint arrangement.
The standard has been endorsed by the EU and is effective for the accounting period beginning on 1 January 2014.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 11s full impact on its financial position or performance: 98 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Equity accounting of associate At 31 December 2012, the Group has reclassified non-current VAT At 31 December 2012, the Group owned 26.0% of ENRC PLC, receivables and non-current advances for the purchase of property, an internationally diversified mining company listed on the London plant and equipment from current assets and property, plant and Stock Exchange.
equipment, respectively, to other non-current assets see note 20.
The comparative information at 31 December 2011 has been The investment has been treated as an associate and accounted for reclassified accordingly.
This change has not had an impact on the under the equity method in accordance with IAS 28 Investments in Groups net assets or total assets for both periods presented in the Associates as the Directors believe that the Group exerts significant consolidated financial statements.
IAS 28 states that there is a rebuttable presumption that significant influence exists where an investor During 2012, EBITDA excluding special items, a key performance holds more than 20% of the voting power of the investee.
Although indicator of the Group, has been redefined.
The Group considers Kazakhmys does not have representation on the board of ENRC, the EBITDA to be a proxy for cash earnings from current trading Directors believe that the Group has the ability to exercise significant performance.
Consequently, the actuarial remeasurement charge influence by virtue of its substantial shareholding, whereby the Group recognised in the income statement in respect of the Groups owns in excess of 25% of the issued share capital of ENRC and is the disability benefits obligation has been excluded from EBITDA and single largest shareholder.
instead, the actual disability benefits payments disbursed during the year have been deducted in arriving at EBITDA.
A change in This interest confers the Group with certain additional rights and legislation in 2011 significantly increased the level of payments influence under the Companies Act 2006 CA06 which allow the the Group is required to make to disabled current and former Group to block special resolutions proposed by ENRC at general employees, and consequently the corresponding provision for the meetings.
Consequentially, through the provisions of the CA06, the disability benefits obligation also increased.
As the disability benefits Group is able to participate in policy making processes of ENRC, obligation is remeasured on an ongoing basis and is subject to including participation in rights issues or setting the distribution potential volatility arising from changes to actuarial assumptions, policy, which form part of ENRCs capital management strategy.
including expectations of future payment levels and the discount rate The Directors are of the view that the Group has influence over the applied, the actuarial remeasurement charge in any particular period acquisition strategy of ENRC by having the ability to block related can often be unrepresentative of the cash payable in respect of that party transactions which ENRC has a history of making, where these period.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, the impact of this transactions are over and above the fide-minimis exemption in the change is considered insignificant in the context of EBITDA and the Listing Rules.
consolidated financial statements as a whole, and therefore 2011 has not been restated.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, the Furthermore, the frequency and nature of meetings between the actuarial remeasurement charge of $190 million has been excluded two companies have changed substantially since the Group increased from EBITDA and cash disbursements of $41 million have been its shareholding above 25%, with matters such as acquisition strategy deducted in arriving at EBITDA, such that a net amount relating and capital management being discussed.
to the non-cash component of the disability benefits obligation The Directors therefore believe that it remains appropriate for the of $149 million has been excluded from EBITDA.
Group to equity account for its interest in ENRC in accordance with i Significant accounting judgements and key sources IAS 28. of estimation uncertainty Assets held for sale and discontinued operations In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are During 2009 the Directors decided to dispose of MKM given the described in note 3, the Directors are required to make judgements, Groups strategy is to focus on natural resource opportunities in the estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and Central Asian region.
The business was classified as an asset held for liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Judgements sale at 31 December 2009, and correspondingly as a discontinued are based on the Directors best knowledge of the relevant facts operation in the consolidated income statement for the 2009 and circumstances having regard to prior experience, but actual financial year.
This classification was made as the Group believed results may differ from the amounts included in the consolidated that a sale was highly probable to take place within 12 months from financial statements.
the date the business was first classified as held-for-sale.
The sale Estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical of MKM has not completed within the envisaged 12 month period, experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
as negotiations with potential acquirers have taken longer than was Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and originally anticipated, principally due to challenges faced by potential underlying assumptions applied are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
interested parties in raising the finance necessary to complete the Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in transaction.
The failure of the potential acquirers to secure the level which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, of funding required to meet MKMs working capital requirements is a or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision factor that was neither anticipated nor within managements control.
affects both current and future periods.
In June 2012, management appointed an investment bank to i Critical judgements in applying the Groups significant conduct a structured tender process for the sale of the MKM accounting policies business.
The sales process managed by the investment bank is being The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving run in conjunction with ongoing discussions held by management with estimations which are dealt with separately below, which the potential suitors who have expressed an interest in acquiring MKM, Directors believe are likely to have the most significant effect on some of whom have undertaken due diligence on the business.
At the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
31 December 2012, the Groups strategic objective of disposing of MKM remains the same and the initial offers presented by the interested parties are at prices consistent with previous expectations, with committed financed offers expected in the first half of 2013. www.
com 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 2.
Basis of preparation continued ii Key sources of estimation uncertainty Based on these facts, the Directors consider that MKM continues to The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale at the balance sheet of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a date, including, in particular, that a disposal is considered to be highly significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying probable within the next 12 months.
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Determination of excess profits taxation Following the introduction of new tax legislation on 1 January 2009, Impairment of assets the Directors interpreted the legislation and the terms of the Groups The Directors review the carrying value of the Groups assets to subsoil licences and believed that excess profits tax was not applicable determine whether there are any indicators of impairment such to the Groups operations after this date.
This view was supported by that the carrying values of the assets may not be recoverable.
discussions and correspondence with the Governmental authorities.
The assessment of whether an indicator of impairment has arisen The Directors believe that the Groups judgements in the past and at can require considerable judgement taking account of future the time were reasonable and were in compliance with Kazakhstan operational and financial plans, commodity prices, sales demand tax legislation, however accepted the risk that the tax authorities and the competitive environment.
Where such indicators exist, the might have a different interpretation of the tax legislation at the carrying value of the assets of a cash generating unit is compared time of a future tax audit.
with the recoverable amount of those assets, that is, the higher of net realisable value and value in use, which is determined on the basis During 2010 and 2011, Kazakhmys LLC pursued through the courts of discounted future cash flows.
This involves management estimates in Kazakhstan confirmation of Kazakhmys LLCs status as an excess on commodity prices, market demand and supply, economic and profits taxation payer in the periods up to and including 2008.
In regulatory climates, long-term mine plans and other factors.
Any October 2011, the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan ruled in favour subsequent changes to cash flows due to changes in the above of Kazakhmys LLC, such that Kazakhmys LLC should not have been mentioned factors could impact the carrying value of the assets.
an excess profits tax payer in the periods up to and including 2008.
Following this ruling as well as the results of two previous tax audits At 31 December 2012, the carrying value of the Groups equity for the years 2003 to 2008, where the tax authorities confirmed investment in ENRC of $4,250 million exceeded the market value of Kazakhmys LLCs methodology in calculating its excess profits $1,546 million by an amount that the Directors deemed as significant taxation liabilities by making no further claims, the Group released as envisaged by IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and the excess profits tax provision of $49 million including fines and measurement.
Whilst the market value of the Groups investment penalties that was recognised in earlier years as at 31 December in ENRC was below its carrying value at 31 December 2011 and 2011.
The provision was previously recognised due to uncertainties 30 June 2012, the impairment reviews performed at those dates over the judgements that were made in respect of Kazakhmys LLCs did not result in any impairment charges being recognised.
However, methodology of computing excess profits tax in periods up to and since the impairment review performed at 30 June 2012, the price including 2008. expectations and outlook for ENRCs key products has weakened, ENRC has announced a revised capital expenditure programme In 2012, following the Supreme Courts ruling, Kazakhmys LLC and, in addition, ENRCs gearing levels have increased significantly.
lodged a claim with the Ministry of Finance to seek reimbursement As a result, taking these developments into account, the impairment of past EPT payments amounting to $108 million for the periods up review performed in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets, to and including 2008.
In the second half of 2012, the Ministry of concluded that an impairment charge of $2,223 million should be Finance partially accepted Kazakhmys LLCs position and $60 million recognised at 31 December 2012. has been set-off against the income tax and mineral extraction tax liabilities for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The remaining In determining the value-in-use of the ENRC investment, the $48 million has been challenged by the tax authorities who believe Directors made assumptions of the future cash flows to be that this amount relates to periods beyond the Kazakhstan statute generated by ENRC using assumptions derived from publicly of limitations.
Kazakhmys LLC has taken legal action against the tax available information on ENRCs production volumes and capital authorities for the refund of these amounts.
In addition, Kazakhmys expenditure, inflation, exchange rates and commodity price forecasts.
LLC believes that the applicable sections of the legislation dealing with The calculation of the value-in-use generated a range of outcomes as the statute of limitations relates to valid tax payments and as these the calculation is particularly sensitive to changes in commodity prices, past EPT payments have already been ruled as invalid as a result of operating cost inflation, capital expenditure and the discount rate the Supreme Court ruling, their refund is therefore not restricted used.
In addition, the valuation of certain of ENRCs development by the statute of limitations.
assets involved a high degree of judgement given their relatively early stage in the project lifecycle.
Any changes to the assumptions The reimbursement of $60 million has reduced the income tax and adopted in the calculation of the value-in-use, individually or in mineral extraction tax liabilities for the year ended 31 December aggregate, would result in a different value-in-use being determined.
2012, and has been recognised as a refund of past EPT in the Accordingly, in determining a valuation point within the range of consolidated income statement as a special item.
However, outcomes determined by the calculation of the value-in-use, the notwithstanding the previous ruling of the Supreme Court and Directors have also considered ENRCs market valuation over the merits of Kazakhmys LLCs case against the Ministry of Finance, several historical periods and the results of recent valuations in light of the ongoing legal actions being taken by Kazakhmys LLC performed by equity analysts.
against the tax authorities, the Directors believe that sufficient uncertainty still remains over the recoverability of the remaining $48 million such that an asset for this amount has not been recognised in the consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2012.
100 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Employee benefits In addition during the year ended 31 December 2012, Kazakhmys The expected costs of providing long-term employment benefits Mining recognised a $162 million impairment charge in respect of the under defined benefit arrangements relating to employee service Bozymchak project in Kyrgyzstan.
In determining the value-in-use of during the period are determined based on financial and actuarial the Bozymchak project, the Directors made estimates of the future assumptions.
Assumptions in respect of the expected costs are set cash flows to be generated by this project with the key variables being in consultation with an independent actuary.
copper and gold price assumptions, capital expenditure to complete the project and its commissioning date for commercial production.
During 2011, new legislation was enacted in Kazakhstan which increased the amounts payable for death and disability benefits.
For the years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, Under the new legislation, which applies retrospectively, the benefits the impairment charges in respect of businesses classified as payable are calculated on the basis of average salaries of employees discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements, currently in service.
Prior to the change in the legislation, benefits were MKM $17 million 2011: $9 million and in 2011, $444 million payable were calculated on the basis of historic salaries that were for Kazakhmys Petroleum, each of which were written down to their increased annually by the official inflation rate prevailing in recoverable amounts, represented by the fair value less costs to sell Kazakhstan.
As a result of this new legislation, future salary increases of each asset.
within the business have to be estimated.
Other key assumptions Determination of ore reserves and useful lives of property, plant include the selection of discount and mortality rates.
The discount and equipment rate used has been determined by reference to the US 10 year Reserves are estimates of the amount of product that can be treasury bond rate adjusted for inflation and the appropriate country economically and legally extracted from the Groups mining risk factor.
The US 10 year treasury bond rate approximates to the properties.
In order to estimate reserves, assumptions are required average maturity profile of the Groups benefit obligations.
Mortality about a range of geological, technical and economic factors, including rates are based on the official mortality table of Kazakhstan published quantities, grades, production techniques, recovery rates, production by the Government.
costs, transport costs, commodity demand, commodity prices and exchange rates.
While the Directors believe the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would impact the employee benefit The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based obligation recognised on the balance sheet and hence the financial on information compiled by competent persons as defined in performance of the Group.
accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2012 Provision for environmental pollution charges EPC the JORC code.
A review of the Groups reserves and resources is The tax audit conducted for the years 2006 to 2008 within undertaken on an annual basis by an independent competent person.
Kazakhmys LLC, identified a potential exposure related to EPC resulting from a difference in interpretation on the applicability of In assessing the life of a mine for accounting purposes, mineral stabilised rates relating to EPC and similar legislative matters.
Despite reserves are only taken into account where there is a high degree Kazakhmys LLC having challenged the basis of certain of the claims of confidence of economic extraction proven and probable mineral levied by the tax authorities, the Directors assessed the position of reserves.
Since the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves Kazakhmys LLC as at 31 December 2011 and recognised a provision change from period to period, and as additional geological data is of $38 million including fines and penalties reflecting the probability generated during the course of operations, estimates of reserves that a settlement would be negotiated with the tax authorities may change from period to period.
Changes in reported reserves following agreement being reached on the interpretation of the may affect the Groups financial results and financial position in a relevant legislation.
number of ways, including the following: In May 2012, the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan ruled in favour of asset carrying values may be affected due to changes in estimated Kazakhmys LLC in its appeal over certain of the claims levied by the future cash flows: tax authorities.
The Supreme Courts ruling confirmed the basis used depreciation, depletion and amortisation charged in the income by Kazakhmys LLC in calculating certain of its EPC liabilities for the statement may change where such charges are determined by the periods under audit.
Consequently, the Directors believe that the unit of production basis, or where the useful economic lives of likelihood of further liabilities or exposures existing in respect of assets change: EPC for the periods 2006 to 2008 is remote and the provision of $38 million, including fines and penalties, relating to the possible decommissioning, site restoration and environmental provisions settlement of some of the additional liabilities calculated by the may change where changes in estimated reserves affect tax authorities has been released as at 31 December 2012. expectations about the timing or cost of these activities: and the carrying value of deferred tax assets may change due to Income taxes changes in estimates of the likely recovery of tax benefits.
In determining the level of accruals and provisions to be recognised in respect of any potential exposures for various tax liabilities, the There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore Directors make estimates in relation to the level of taxes payable, reserves, and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation particularly in relation to transfer pricing, non-deductible items and may change significantly when new information becomes available.
The tax obligations may then be audited by Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, the tax authorities at a future date which may also impact the level of production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status accruals and provisions recognised.
of reserves and may, ultimately, result in reserves being revised.
For property, plant and equipment depreciated on a straight line basis over its useful economic life, the appropriateness of the assets useful economic life is reviewed at least annually and any changes could affect prospective depreciation rates and asset carrying values.
com 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair value attributable to The following significant accounting policies have been applied in the Groups share of the identifiable net assets, the difference is the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
These treated as purchased goodwill.
accounting policies have been consistently applied across the Group.
If the fair value attributable to the Groups share of the identifiable a Foreign currency translation net assets exceeds the fair value of the consideration, the Group The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined reassesses whether it has correctly identified and measured the as the currency of the primary economic environment in which assets acquired and liabilities assumed and recognises any additional it operates.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional assets or liabilities that are identified in that review.
If that excess currency are initially recorded at the functional currency rate remains after reassessment, the Group recognises the resulting ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities gain in the income statement on the acquisition date.
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of When a subsidiary is acquired in a number of stages, the acquisition exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange gains and losses date carrying value of the acquirers previously held equity interest on settlement of foreign currency transactions translated at the in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date rate prevailing at the date of the transactions, or the translation through the income statement.
of monetary assets and liabilities at period end exchange rates, are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases of denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost interests in associates and joint ventures.
Any goodwill arising on such are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange purchases is included within the carrying amount of the investment rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
in the associate, but not thereafter amortised.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the associates identifiable The functional currency of the Company, the Groups financing and assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of the holding companies and Kazakhmys Sales Limited is the US dollar $ investment is included in the income statement in the period as the majority of the operating activities are conducted in US dollars.
The functional currency of production and exploration entities within Kazakhmys Mining and Kazakhmys Power is the Kazakhstan tenge c Intangible assets KZT, the Bozymchak project is the Kyrgyz som KGS and of MKM i Mineral licences and other intangible assets is the Euro.
On consolidation, income statements of subsidiaries Mineral licences and other intangible assets, which are acquired by are translated into US dollars, at average rates of exchange.
Balance the Group and which have finite useful lives, are stated at cost which sheet items are translated into US dollars at period end exchange comprises purchase price plus any directly attributable costs of rates.
Exchange differences on the retranslation are taken to a preparing the asset for intended use less accumulated amortisation separate component of equity.
All other exchange differences and impairment losses.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a are charged or credited to the income statement in the year in business combination is their fair value which can be measured which they arise.
The following foreign exchange rates against the reliably as at the date of acquisition.
US dollar have been used in the preparation of the consolidated ii Amortisation financial statements: Intangible assets primarily comprise mineral licence acquisition costs, 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 which are amortised on a unit of production basis.
Amortisation for Spot Average Spot Average other intangible assets, which have expected useful lives of three to Kazakhstan tenge 150.74 149.11 148.40 146.62 ten years, is computed under the straight-line method over the Euro 0.76 0.78 0.77 0.72 estimated useful lives of the assets.
UK pounds sterling 0.62 0.63 0.65 0.62 d Property, plant and equipment b Business combinations i Initial measurement The Group applies the purchase method to account for business Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated combinations.
On the acquisition of a subsidiary, the purchase depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of an item of property, consideration is allocated to the identifiable assets, liabilities and plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and any costs contingent liabilities identifiable net assets on the basis of fair values directly attributable to bringing it into working condition for its at the date of acquisition.
Those mining rights, mineral reserves and intended use.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the resources that are able to be reliably valued are recognised in the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Other potential reserves, of production overheads.
resources and mineral rights, for which in the Directors opinion values cannot be reliably determined, are not recognised.
The consideration transferred cost of acquisition is the aggregate of: a the fair values at the date of exchange, of assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group: and b the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred in the income statement.
102 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements ii Depreciation iii Mine stripping costs The cost of each item of property, plant and equipment is Mine stripping costs incurred in order to access the mineraldepreciated over its useful life.
Each items estimated useful life has bearing ore deposits are deferred prior to the commencement due regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present of production.
Such costs are amortised over the remaining life assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine of the mine using a unit of production method.
property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful The cost of removal of the waste material during a mines production lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, plant and phase is deferred if the stripping activity permits an increase in the equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Depreciation output of the mine in future periods through providing access to is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the additional sources of reserves that will be produced in future estimated useful life of the individual asset or on a unit of production periods.
Capitalised stripping costs are amortised in a systematic basis depending on the type of asset.
The unit of production method manner over the reserves that directly benefit from the specific is the ratio of commodity production in the period to the estimated stripping activity.
quantities of commercial reserves over the life of the mine using proven and probable mineral reserves as determined by the JORC iv Exploration and evaluation costs code on an annual basis based on the estimated economically Exploration and evaluation expenditure for each area of interest recoverable reserves to which they relate.
Changes in estimates, once the legal right to explore has been acquired, other than that which affect unit of production calculations, are accounted for acquired through a purchase transaction, is carried forward as an prospectively.
asset, within mining assets, provided that one of the following conditions is met: Depreciation commences on the date the assets are used within the business.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
such costs are expected to be recouped through successful exploration and development of the area of interest or, The expected useful lives are as follows: alternatively, by its sale: and Buildings 15-40 years exploration and evaluation activities in the area of interest have Plant and equipment 4-25 years not yet reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment Other 3-15 years of the existence or otherwise of economically recoverable reserves, and active and significant operations in relation to iii Construction in progress the area are continuing.
Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate Exploration expenditure which fails to meet at least one of the component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, conditions outlined above is written off.
Administrative and general the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
expenses relating to exploration and evaluation activities are Construction in progress is not depreciated.
iv Repairs and maintenance Identifiable exploration and evaluation assets acquired in a purchase Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, transaction are recognised as assets at their cost, or fair value if plant and equipment that is accounted for separately, is capitalised purchased as part of a business combination.
Exploration assets are with the carrying amount of the replaced component being written reassessed on a regular basis and these costs are carried forward off.
Repairs and maintenance expenditure is capitalised if additional provided that at least one of the conditions outlined above is met.
future economic benefits will arise from the expenditure.
All other Exploration and evaluation assets attributable to producing interests repairs and maintenance expenditure is recognised in the income are amortised over the remaining life of the mine on a unit of statement as incurred.
v Leased assets f Impairment Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of The carrying values of mining assets, capitalised exploration and ownership are retained by the lessor and not transferred to the evaluation expenditure and property, plant and equipment are Group are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under assessed for impairment when indicators of such impairment exist.
operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straightIf any indication of impairment exists, an estimate of the assets line basis over the period of the lease.
e Mining assets If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, i Mineral properties the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the Costs of acquiring mineral properties are capitalised on the balance income statement so as to reduce the carrying amount to its sheet in the year in which they are incurred.
Costs associated with a recoverable amount.
start-up period for significant developments are capitalised during the commissioning period development expenditure where the asset Impairment losses related to continuing operations are recognised is incapable of operating at normal levels without a commissioning in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with period.
Mineral properties are amortised over the remaining life the function of the impaired asset.
of the mine using a unit of production method.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there ii Mine development costs is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may Mine development costs are incurred to obtain access to proved no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, reserves or mineral-bearing ore deposits and to provide facilities the Group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
for extracting, lifting and storing minerals.
Such costs are, upon commencement of production, amortised over the remaining life of the mine using a unit of production method.
com 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued The carrying values of joint ventures and associates are reviewed on i Calculation of recoverable amount a regular basis and if an impairment in value has occurred, it is written The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their value in use off in the period in which those circumstances are identified.
An and fair value less costs to sell.
In assessing value in use, the estimated impairment indicator is deemed to exist where the carrying value future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax of a listed investment exceeds its market value by an amount that discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time is significant or for a prolonged period of time, as envisaged by IAS value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
This is determined 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
Should for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows an impairment indicator exist, an estimate of the investments that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of recoverable amount is calculated in accordance with IAS 36 assets.
If this is the case, the recoverable amount is determined for Impairment of assets.
If the carrying amount of the investment the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The Groups exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is impaired and an cash-generating units are the smallest identifiable groups of assets that impairment loss is charged to the income statement so as to generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows reduce the carrying amount to its recoverable amount.
from other assets or groups of assets.
The Group discontinues its use of the equity method from the date ii Reversals of impairment on which it ceases to have joint control or exert significant influence, A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there and from that date, accounts for the investment in accordance with has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets IAS 39 with its initial cost being the carrying amount of the joint recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
venture or associate at that date, provided the investment does If this is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to not then qualify as a subsidiary.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the h Inventories extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or Cost includes all costs incurred in the normal course of business in amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised for the asset bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Such reversals are recognised in the income statement.
determined on the following bases: Impairment losses recognised in relation to goodwill are not reversed for subsequent increases in its recoverable amount.
raw materials and consumables are valued at cost on a first-in, firstout FIFO basis: and g Equity accounted investments work in progress and finished goods are valued at the cost of A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds a long-term production, including the appropriate proportion of depreciation, interest and shares joint control over strategic, financial and operating labour and overheads based on normal operating capacity.
The decisions with one or more other venturers under a contractual cost of work in progress and finished goods is based on the arrangement.
Entities in which the Group has the ability to exercise significant Net realisable value represents estimated selling price in the ordinary influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to are associates.
There is a rebuttable presumption of the ability completion and disposal.
to exercise significant influence when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
i Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables do not generally carry any interest The Group accounts for investments in joint ventures and associates and are normally stated at their nominal value less any impairment.
using the equity method except when such investments are classified Impairment losses on trade receivables are recognised within an as held for sale.
allowance account unless the Group considers that no recovery of Under the equity method of accounting, the investment in the joint the amount is possible, in which case the carrying value of the asset venture and associate is recognised on the balance sheet on the date is reduced directly.
of acquisition at cost, representing the fair value of the purchase j Cash and cash equivalents consideration and therefore including any goodwill on acquisition.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, The Groups income statement reflects the share of a joint ventures short-term deposits held on call or with maturities less than three and associates results after tax and the Groups statement of months at inception and highly liquid investments that are readily comprehensive income includes any amounts recognised by the joint convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to venture and associate outside of the income statement.
The carrying insignificant risk of changes in value, and bank overdrafts.
amount of the investment is adjusted by the Groups share of the k Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations cumulative post-acquisition profit or loss net of any impairment Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale losses and dividends receivable from the joint venture and associate.
if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction Where there has been a change recognised directly in the equity rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as of the joint venture and associate, the Group recognises its share met only when the sale is highly probable and the assets or disposal of such changes in equity.
Adjustments are made in the consolidated groups are available for immediate sale in their present condition.
financial statements to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains The Group must be committed to the sale which should be expected and losses on transactions between the Group and the joint venture to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year of the and associate.
104 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale are carried at line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate the lower of the carrying amount prior to being classified as held for of shares that will eventually vest.
sale, and the fair value less costs to sell.
A non-current asset is not The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed depreciated while classified as held for sale.
A non-current asset held at each balance sheet date up to the vesting date at which point the for sale is presented separately in the balance sheet.
The assets and estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual outcome of awards which liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale are presented have vested.
No adjustment is made to the fair value after the separately as one line in the assets and liabilities sections on the face vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
n Own shares An asset or business is considered to be a discontinued operation Own equity instruments which are re-acquired either by the if it has been sold or is classified as held for sale and is part of a Employee Benefits Trust for the purposes of the Groups employee single coordinated plan to dispose of either a separate major line share-based payment plans or by the Company as part of any share of business or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to sale.
buy-back programmes are recognised at cost and deducted from Once an operation has been identified as discontinued, its net profit equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on is presented separately from continuing operations.
Comparative the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity information is reclassified so that the net profit of the prior period instruments.
Any difference between the carrying amount and the is also presented separately.
consideration paid to acquire such equity instruments is recognised l Borrowings within equity.
Borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the o Trust activities consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
Assets held in trust or in a fiduciary capacity are not treated as assets After initial recognition, borrowings are subsequently measured of the Group and, accordingly, are not included in the consolidated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Transactions entered into with these trust m Employee benefits activities are expensed in the consolidated financial statements.
i Long-term employee benefits p Social responsibility costs The Groups entities located in Kazakhstan remit contributions The Group is obliged to contribute towards social programmes to defined contribution pension plans on behalf of its employees.
for the benefit of the local community at large.
The Groups Contributions to be paid by the Group are withheld from employees contributions towards these programmes are expensed to the salaries and are recognised as part of the salary expense in the income statement at the point when the Group is committed income statement as incurred.
The Groups unfunded defined benefit plans, including the death q Provisions and disability plans for current and former employees, are accounted Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation for in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits, such that the plan legal or constructive as a result of a past event, and it is probable liabilities are measured by actuarial valuations using the projected unit that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation credit method.
and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount.
If the effect of The future benefit that employees have earned is discounted to the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by determine the present value.
The discount rate is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reference to the US treasury bond rate adjusted for country specific reflects current market assessments of the time value of money inflation and risk.
The treasury bond used approximates to the and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where average maturity profile of the Groups benefit obligations.
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage The calculation is performed by a qualified independent actuary.
of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Actuarial gains and losses, which can arise from differences between i Site restoration costs expected and actual outcomes or changes in actuarial assumptions, Site restoration provisions are made in respect of the estimated are recognised depending on the nature of the post-employment future costs of closure and restoration, and for environmental benefit.
In respect of the death and disability benefit plans, these rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the income of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation statement.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses falling of disturbed areas in the accounting period when the related outside a corridor of the greater of 10% of the benefit obligation, environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted amortised over the expected average future working lifetime of where material and the unwinding of the discount is included in employees in the arrangements for all other long-term defined finance costs.
Over time, the discounted provision is increased for benefit plans.
The expense in relation to these long-term employee the change in present value based on the discount rates that reflect benefits is charged to the income statement so as to match the cost current market assessments and the risks specific to the liability.
of providing these benefits to the period of service of the employees.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future benefit and depreciated ii Share-based payments over the remaining life of the mine to which it relates using a unit Certain employees of the Group receive part of their remuneration of production method.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations.
employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over Any change in restoration costs or assumptions will be recognised as shares equity settled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled additions or charges to the corresponding asset and provision when transactions with employees is measured at fair value at the date at they occur.
For permanently closed sites, changes to estimated costs which they are granted.
The fair value of share awards with marketare recognised immediately in the income statement.
related vesting conditions is determined using the Monte Carlo method and the fair value at the grant date is expensed on a straightwww.
com 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued and deducted from the total capitalised borrowing cost.
Where the ii Payments for licences funds used to finance a project form part of general borrowings, In accordance with the terms of subsoil use contracts, provision is the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted average of made for future licence payments when the Group has a present rates applicable to relevant general borrowings of the Group during obligation to repay the costs of geological information provided the year.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income for licensed deposits.
The amount payable is discounted to its statement in the period in which they are incurred using the effective present value.
iii Other Borrowing costs that represent avoidable costs not related to Other provisions are accounted for when the Group has a legal the financing arrangements of the development projects and are or constructive obligation for which it is probable there will be therefore not directly attributable to the construction of these an outflow of resources and for which the amount can be respective assets are expensed in the period as incurred.
borrowing costs generally arise where the funds are drawn down under the Groups financing facilities, whether specific or general, r Revenue which are in excess of the near term cash flow requirements of the Revenue represents the value of goods and services supplied to third development projects for which the financing is intended, and the parties during the year.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of funds are drawn down ahead of any contractual obligation to do so.
consideration receivable, and excludes any applicable sales tax.
Mineral extraction tax is included within cost of sales.
v Income tax Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income All revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case it reliably measured.
Revenue associated with the sale of goods is is recognised in equity.
Excess profits tax is treated as income tax and recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and forms part of the income tax expense.
rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title and any insurance risk has passed to the customer and the goods Current tax expense is the expected tax payable on the taxable have been delivered in accordance with the contractual delivery income for the year and any adjustment to tax payable in respect terms or when any services have been provided.
Almost all sales agreements for copper cathodes, copper rods and Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, copper and zinc concentrate are provisionally priced, i. e. the selling providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts price is subject to final adjustment at the end of a quotation period, of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the typically the average price either for the month or the month amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary following delivery to the customer, based on the LME market price differences are not provided for: for the relevant quotation period stipulated in the contract.
Such a those arising on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in provisional sale contains an embedded derivative which is required a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time to be separated from the host contract.
The host contract is the sale of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable of a commodity at the provisional invoice price, and the embedded profit: and derivative is the forward contract for which the provisional sale is investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the subsequently adjusted.
At each reporting date, the provisionally temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the priced metal sales are marked-to-market using forward prices, with temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
adjustments both gains and losses being recorded in revenue in the income statement and in trade receivables or trade payables in the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that balance sheet.
are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been s Finance income enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested and foreign exchange gains.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is calculated in accordance with the effective interest rate method.
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the t Finance costs extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings which will be realised.
are not capitalised under the borrowing costs policy see 3 u below, the unwinding of interest cost on provisions and foreign Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable exchange losses.
right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the u Borrowing costs same taxation authority.
Borrowing costs directly relating to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying capital project under construction are w Dividends capitalised and added to the project cost during construction until Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are such time as the assets are considered substantially ready for their approved by shareholders.
Dividends receivable are recognised when intended use i. e. when they are capable of commercial production.
the Groups right to receive payment is established.
Where funds are borrowed specifically to finance a project, the x Financial instruments amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs incurred.
The Group recognises financial assets and liabilities on its balance Where surplus funds are available for a short term from money sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of borrowed specifically to finance a project, the income generated the instrument.
from the temporary investment of such amounts is also capitalised 106 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements i Financial assets The Groups financial liabilities include trade and other payables, bank Initial recognition and measurement overdrafts, loans and borrowings, financial guarantee contracts and Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as financial derivative financial instruments.
assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, The Groups most significant financial liabilities, within the scope held-to-maturity investments, available-for-sale financial assets, or as of IAS 39, are classified as loans and borrowings.
derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of its financial Subsequent measurement assets at initial recognition.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate EIR method after When financial assets are initially recognised, they are measured initial recognition.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income at fair value being the consideration given or received plus directly statement when the liabilities are derecognised, as well as through attributable transaction costs.
Any gain or loss at initial recognition the EIR amortisation process.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking is recognised in the income statement.
into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or The Groups financial assets include cash and short-term deposits, costs that are an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR amortisation is trade and other receivables, loans and other receivables, quoted included in finance costs in the income statement.
and unquoted investments and derivative financial instruments.
Derecognition A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the The Groups most significant financial assets, within the scope of liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
When an existing IAS 39, are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are payments that are not quoted in an active market.
These are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated typically loans and receivables created by the Group in providing as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a money to a debtor.
new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts Subsequent measurement is recognised in the income statement.
After initial measurement, loans and receivables are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method iii Derivative financial instruments EIR.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount Where the Group enters into derivative contracts that are not or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part hedging instruments in hedge relationships as defined by IAS 39, of the EIR.
The EIR amortisation is included in finance income in the these are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with changes income statement.
Allowance for impairment is estimated on a casein fair value recognised in finance income or finance costs in the by-case basis.
Derecognition Derivatives embedded in host contracts are accounted for as A financial asset is derecognised when the Group loses control over separate derivatives and recorded at fair value if their economic the contractual rights that comprise that asset.
This occurs when the characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host rights are realised, expire or are surrendered.
These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
Impairment of financial assets Reassessment only occurs if there is a change in the terms of the The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is any contract that significantly modifies the cash flows that would have objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is been expected.
A financial asset or group of financial assets is deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment iv Offsetting of financial instruments as a result of one or more events that has occurred after the initial Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount recognition of the asset an incurred loss event and that loss event reported in the balance sheet when there is an enforceable legal has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
ii Financial liabilities Initial recognition and measurement v Fair value of financial instruments Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as financial The fair value of financial instruments that are traded in active liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, or markets at each reporting date is determined by reference to quoted as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, market prices, without any deduction for transaction costs.
The Group determines the classification of its financial financial instruments not traded in an active market, the fair value is liabilities at initial recognition.
determined using appropriate valuation techniques.
Such techniques All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and in may include using recent arms length market transactions, reference the case of loans and borrowings, plus directly attributable to the current fair value of another instrument that is substantially transaction costs.
the same, discounted cash flow analysis or other valuation models.
An analysis of fair values of financial instruments and further details as to how they are measured is provided in note 33. www.
com 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 4.
Segment information Information provided to the Groups Board of Directors for the purposes of resource allocation and the assessment of segmental performance is prepared in accordance with the management and operational structure of the Group.
For management and operational purposes, the Group is organised into three separate business units 2011: four, as shown below, according to the nature of their operations, end-products and services rendered.
Each of these business units represents an operating segment in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating segments.
The operating segments of the Group are: Kazakhmys Mining The Kazakhmys Mining business is managed as one operating segment and comprises all entities and functions within the Group responsible for the exploration, evaluation, development, mining and processing of the Groups mineral resources and sale of the Groups metal products.
The segment consists of: the Groups main operating entity, Kazakhmys LLC, whose principal activity is the mining and processing of copper and other metals which are produced as by-products: the Groups smelting operations, Kazakhmys Smelting LLC, whose principal activity is the refining of copper and other metals which are produced as by-products by Kazakhmys LLC: the Groups UK trading function, Kazakhmys Sales Limited, which is responsible for the purchase of exported products from Kazakhmys LLC and subsequently applies an appropriate mark-up prior to onward sale to third parties.
The UK entity is a sales function on behalf of the Kazakhmys Mining business and consequently the assets and liabilities related to those trading operations, i. e. trade payables and trade receivables, are included within the Kazakhmys Mining operating segment: the Groups exploration companies which provide services for greenfield drilling on new projects and deposits, brownfield drilling on expansion projects and deposits at existing mines, and exploration work for potential new projects and deposits for the Mining segment: the Groups project companies, whose responsibility is the development of metal production related assets on behalf of the Mining segment including the evaluation and development of the Groups major mining projects: and the Groups technical and ancillary services which provide technical, logistics and other services principally to the Mining segment and which are managed as an extension of the Mining segment.
The financial and operating information used by the Board of Directors for the purpose of resource allocation of all these separate functions and entities is included within the Mining segment.
MKM MKM operates in Germany, where it manufactures copper and copper alloy semi-finished products.
MKM faces different risks to the Groups other businesses, and produces different products.
It is therefore shown as a separate operating segment.
As stated in note 37 a, the Directors have decided to dispose of MKM.
As a result, at 31 December 2012 and 2011, MKM has been classified as a disposal group held for sale and as a discontinued operation.
Kazakhmys Power Kazakhmys Power operates in Kazakhstan, and consists of the Groups three captive power stations, the Ekibastuz GRES-1 coal-fired power station joint venture and the Maikuben West coal mine up to the period ended 17 May 2011.
The principal activity of the Kazakhmys Power operating segment is the sale of electricity and coal to external customers and internally to the Kazakhmys Mining segment.
The captive power stations and the Groups 50% interest in the Ekibastuz GRES-1 coal-fired power station are managed by the same management team and produce discrete financial and operating information that is used by the Board of Directors for operational and resource allocation decisions.
Kazakhmys Petroleum As stated in note 37 b, the Group disposed of Kazakhmys Petroleum in December 2011, and as a result, it has been classified as a discontinued operation for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Managing and measuring operating segments The key performance measure of the operating segments is EBITDA excluding special items.
EBITDA excluding special items is defined as profit before interest, taxation, depreciation, depletion, amortisation, the non-cash component of the disability benefits obligation and mineral extraction tax, as adjusted for special items.
Special items are those items which are non-recurring or variable in nature and which do not impact the underlying trading performance of the business note 5.
During 2012, EBITDA excluding special items has been re-defined to exclude the impact of the non-cash component of the disability benefits obligation.
Consequently, the actuarial remeasurement charge recognised in the income statement in respect of the Groups disability benefits obligation has been excluded from EBITDA and instead, the actual disability benefits payments disbursed during the year have been deducted in arriving at EBITDA.
The change in definition of EBITDA excluding special items is considered to more fairly represent EBITDA, a key performance indicator, which is a proxy for cash earnings from current trading performance.
The Groups Treasury department monitors finance income and finance costs at the Group level on a net basis rather than on a gross basis at an operating segment level.
Inter-segment sales include power sales from Kazakhmys Power to Kazakhmys Mining from the Groups captive power stations, and coal sales from Kazakhmys Mining to Kazakhmys Power from the Borly coal mines.
Segmental information is also provided in respect of revenues, by destination and by product.
Segmental information relating to employees is provided in note 8.
108 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements a Operating segments i Income statement information Year ended 31 December 2012 Continuing operations Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate Income Joint Discontinued 1,2 2 3 $ million Mining MKM Power Services Total statement venture operations Revenues Segment sales 3,362 1,466 459 5,287 Inter-segment sales 77 101 178 Sales to external customers 3,285 1,466 358 5,109 3,353 290 1,466 Gross profit 1,316 107 191 1,614 1,330 177 107 Operating costs 806 58 39 55 958 878 22 58 Impairment losses 202 18 220 202 18 4 Share of profits from joint venture 126 126 5,6 Loss on disposal of subsidiary 8 13 21 8 13 Segmental operating profit loss 300 31 152 68 415 368 29 18 4 Share of losses from associate 2,481 2,481 Net finance costs income 93 91 3 5 Income tax expense 111 86 32 7 Loss profit for the year 2,270 2,290 20 Year ended 31 December 2011 Continuing operations Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate Income Joint Discontinued 1,2 2 3 $ million Mining MKM Power Petroleum Services Total statement venture operations Revenues Segment sales 3,548 1,665 426 5,639 Inter-segment sales 49 104 153 Sales to external customers 3,499 1,665 322 5,486 3,563 233 1,690 Gross profit 1,929 86 178 2,193 1,944 142 107 Operating costs 738 60 46 1 55 900 810 16 74 Impairment losses 9 9 444 462 9 453 Share of profits from 4 joint venture 100 100 Loss on disposal 3 of subsidiary 20 24 44 44 Segmental operating profit loss 1,182 17 112 469 55 787 1,225 26 464 Share of profits 4 from associate 466 466 Net finance costs 79 68 11 Income tax expense credit 244 221 26 3 Profit loss for the year 930 1,402 472 1 Kazakhmys Power includes the results of the Groups captive power stations and 50% of the results of Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP as an equity accounted joint venture.
In the year ended 31 December 2011, the segment also included the results of the Maikuben West coal mine for the period ended 17 May 2011 which was included within discontinued operations see note 37 c. 2 For segment reporting, the Group includes its 50% share of the income statement line items that relate to Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP on a line-by-line basis, whereas in the Groups income statement, the financial results of Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP are included within share of profits from joint venture.
Note 18 provides further detail on the financial results of the joint venture.
3 In the year ended 31 December 2012, MKM is included within discontinued operations as well as the impact of the reduced completion adjustment relating to the disposal of Kazakhmys Petroleum see note 36 b.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, discontinued operations consisted of MKM for the full year, the Maikuben West coal mine included within Kazakhmys Power for the period up to its disposal on 17 May 2011 and Kazakhmys Petroleum for the period ended 23 December 2011, the date it was sold see note 37.
4 Share of results is net of tax.
5 In early 2012, the Group disposed of its captive insurance company in Kazakhstan, included within Kazakhmys Mining, for proceeds of $3 million which resulted in the recognition of a loss of $8 million on disposal see note 36 a.
6 In the year ended 31 December 2012, negotiations over the completion adjustment in respect of Kazakhmys Petroleum were concluded.
As a result of these negotiations, the completion adjustment has been revised downwards resulting in the reduction of the consideration receivable by $13 million see note 36 b. www.
com 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 4.
Segment information continued ii Earnings before interest, tax, the non-cash component of the disability benefits obligation, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA excluding special items Year ended 31 December 2012 Continuing operations Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate Income Joint Discontinued 1,2 2 3 $ million Mining MKM Power Services Total statement venture operations Operating profit loss per 2 income statement 300 31 123 68 386 242 126 18 Interest and taxation of joint venture 29 29 29 2 Segmental operating profit loss 300 31 152 68 415 242 155 18 Add: depreciation, depletion and amortisation 251 56 3 310 276 34 Add: non-cash component of the disability 4 benefits obligation 149 149 149 5 Add: mineral extraction tax 260 260 260 Segmental EBITDA 960 31 208 65 1,134 927 189 18 Special items note 5: Add: impairment charges 192 17 209 192 17 Add: loss on disposal of subsidiaries 8 13 21 8 13 Segmental EBITDA excluding special items 1,160 48 208 52 1,364 1,127 189 48 6 Share of EBITDA of associate 548 548 548 Group EBITDA excluding special items 1,160 48 208 496 1,912 1,675 189 48 Year ended 31 December 2011 Continuing operations Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate Income Joint Discontinued 1,2 2 3 $ million Mining MKM Power Petroleum Services Total statement venture operations Operating profit loss per 2 income statement 1,182 17 106 445 55 805 1,125 100 420 Interest and taxation of joint venture 26 26 26 Segmental operating 2 profit loss 1,182 17 132 445 55 831 1,125 126 420 Add: depreciation, depletion and amortisation 215 44 5 264 236 28 5 Add: mineral extraction tax 280 280 280 Segmental EBITDA 1,677 17 176 445 50 1,375 1,641 154 420 Special items note 5: Add: additional disability benefits obligation charge 146 146 146 Add: impairment reversals charges 15 9 444 438 15 453 Segmental EBITDA excluding special items 1,808 26 176 1 50 1,959 1,772 154 33 6 Share of EBITDA of associate 966 966 966 Group EBITDA excluding special items 1,808 26 176 1 916 2,925 2,738 154 33 1 Kazakhmys Power includes the results of the Groups captive power stations and 50% of the results of Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP as an equity accounted joint venture.
In the year ended 31 December 2011, the segment also included the results of the Maikuben West coal mine for the period ended 17 May 2011 which was included within discontinued operations see note 37 c. 2 As the operating profit in the consolidated income statement includes the equity accounted profit from the joint venture, Ekibastuz GRES-1, on a post-interest and tax basis, the joint ventures interest and taxation expenses are added back to calculate the operating profit from continuing operations of the Group on a consistent pre-interest and tax basis.
4 The non-cash component of the Groups disability benefits obligation has been excluded from EBITDA as EBITDA, a key financial indicator, is a proxy for cash earnings from current trading performance.
The non-cash component of the disability benefits obligation is determined as the actuarial remeasurement charge recognised in the income statement less the actual cash payments disbursed during the year in respect of the disability benefits obligation.
5 Mineral extraction tax has been excluded from the key financial indicator of EBITDA as its exclusion provides a more informed measure of the operational performance of the Group as the Directors believe that MET is a substitute for a tax on profits.
6 The share of EBITDA of the associate excludes MET and special items of the associate.
110 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements iii Balance sheet information At 31 December 2012 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate Continuing Discontinued 1 2 1 $ million Mining MKM Power Services Total operations operations Assets 3 Tangible and intangible assets 2,968 23 143 15 3,149 3,126 23 Intragroup investments 4,290 4,290 4,290 4 Non-current investments and other assets 518 941 2,027 3,486 3,486 5 Operating assets 1,216 224 68 164 1,672 1,448 224 Current investments 65 450 515 515 Cash and cash equivalents 147 4 20 1,079 1,250 1,246 4 Segment assets 4,914 251 1,172 8,025 14,362 14,111 251 Deferred tax asset 87 87 Income taxes reclaimable 30 30 Assets classified as held for sale 251 251 Elimination 4,486 4,486 Total assets 9,993 9,993 Liabilities Employee benefits and provisions 469 6 9 484 478 6 6 Operating liabilities 605 25 112 101 843 818 25 Segment liabilities 1,074 31 121 101 1,327 1,296 31 Borrowings 2,593 2,468 125 Deferred tax liability 1 1 Income taxes payable 3 1 2 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 158 158 Elimination 196 196 Total liabilities 3,728 3,728 At 31 December 2011 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate Continuing Discontinued 1 2 1 $ million Mining MKM Power Petroleum Services Total operations operations Assets 3 Tangible and intangible assets 2,598 14 121 34 2,767 2,753 14 Intragroup investments 4,027 4,027 4,027 Non-current investments and 4 other assets 103 838 4,600 5,541 5,541 5 Operating assets 1,061 209 41 199 1,510 1,301 209 Current investments 60 750 810 810 Cash and cash equivalents 262 9 4 836 1,111 1,102 9 Segment assets 4,084 232 1,004 10,446 15,766 15,534 232 Deferred tax asset 61 61 Income taxes reclaimable 71 71 Assets classified as held for sale 232 232 Elimination 4,167 4,167 Total assets 11,731 11,731 Liabilities Employee benefits and provisions 339 6 1 346 340 6 6 Operating liabilities 595 18 44 657 639 18 Segment liabilities 934 24 1 44 1,003 979 24 Borrowings 2,014 1,893 121 Deferred tax liability 6 6 Income taxes payable 16 7 9 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 154 154 Elimination 140 140 Total liabilities 2,899 2,899 1 MKM has been classified as an asset held for sale and is included within discontinued operations see note 37 a.
2 Kazakhmys Power represents the Groups captive power stations.
3 Tangible and intangible assets are located in the principal country of operations of each operating segment, i. e. i Kazakhstan Kazakhmys Mining and Kazakhmys Power: ii Germany MKM: and iii Kazakhmys Mining also includes $57 million 2011: $168 million in Kyrgyzstan.
4 Non-current investments and other assets include other non-current investments note 20, the Groups investment in Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP and a Hydro power development project company in Kazakhstan within the Kazakhmys Power segment and the Groups investment in ENRC within Corporate Services.
5 Operating assets include inventories, prepayments and other current assets and trade and other receivables, including intragroup receivables.
6 Operating liabilities include trade and other payables, including intragroup payables.
com 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 4.
Segment information continued iv Net liquid funds debt At 31 December 2012 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate Continuing Discontinued 1 2 1 $ million Mining MKM Power Services Total operations operations Cash and cash equivalents 147 4 20 1,079 1,250 1,246 4 Current investments 65 450 515 515 3 Borrowings 854 125 73 2,468 3,520 3,395 125 4 Inter-segment borrowings 854 73 927 927 Net liquid funds debt 212 121 20 939 828 707 121 At 31 December 2011 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate Continuing Discontinued 1 2 1 $ million Mining MKM Power Petroleum Services Total operations operations Cash and cash equivalents 262 9 4 836 1,111 1,102 9 Current investments 60 750 810 810 3 Borrowings 392 121 1,893 2,406 2,285 121 4 Inter-segment borrowings 392 392 392 Net liquid funds debt 322 112 4 307 93 19 112 1 MKM has been classified as an asset held for sale and is included within discontinued operations see note 37 a.
3 Borrowings of Corporate Services are presented net of capitalised arrangement fees of $32 million 2011: $21 million.
4 Borrowings of Corporate Services include amounts lent to the Kazakhmys Mining and Kazakhmys Power segments.
v Capital expenditure Year ended 31 December 2012 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate Continuing Discontinued 1 2 $ million Mining MKM Power Services Total operations operations Property, plant and equipment 1,011 11 47 2 1,071 1,060 11 Mining assets 217 217 217 Intangible assets 18 18 18 3 Capital expenditure 1,246 11 47 2 1,306 1,295 11 Year ended 31 December 2011 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate Continuing Discontinued 1 2 $ million Mining MKM Power Petroleum Services Total operations operations Property, plant and equipment 550 16 40 20 1 627 588 39 Mining assets 121 121 121 Intangible assets 8 8 8 3 Capital expenditure 679 16 40 20 1 756 717 39 1 Kazakhmys Power represents the Groups captive power stations.
In the year ended 31 December 2011, the segment also included the capital expenditure of the Maikuben West coal mine for the period ended 17 May 2011 which was included within discontinued operations see note 37 c. 2 In the year ended 31 December 2012, only MKM is included within discontinued operations.
3 Capital expenditure within the Kazakhmys Mining segment includes capitalised depreciation of $7 million 2011: $6 million and $5 million 2011: $3 million for property, plant and equipment and mining assets, respectively.
In addition during the year, Kazakhmys Mining capitalised borrowing costs of $36 million 2011: $28 million and $3 million 2011: $nil for property, plant and equipment and mining assets, respectively.
Also during the year, the site restoration and clean up provisions and provisions for payments for licences within Kazakhmys Mining were reassessed and as a result, an additional $9 million 2011: $4 million and $5 million 2011: a release of $6 million within Kazakhmys Petroleum have been recognised with a corresponding adjustment to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, respectively.
These amounts are non-cash items and are recorded within site restoration and clean up provisions and provisions for payments for licences.
Capital expenditure also includes non-current advances paid for items of property, plant and equipment see note 20.
112 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements b Segmental information in respect of revenues Revenues by product are as follows: $ million 2012 2011 Kazakhmys Mining Copper cathodes 2,088 2,318 Copper rods 187 252 Total copper products 2,275 2,570 Silver 414 479 Gold bullion 300 79 Gold dor 22 54 Zinc metal in concentrate 154 177 Other by-products 61 93 Other revenue 59 47 3,285 3,499 MKM Wire 490 577 Sheets and strips 635 695 Tubes and bars 309 360 Metal trade 32 33 1,466 1,665 1 Kazakhmys Power Electricity generation 358 297 Coal 25 358 322 Total revenues 5,109 5,486 Continuing operations 3,353 3,563 Discontinued operations 1,466 1,690 Share of joint ventures revenues Kazakhmys Power 290 233 Total revenues 5,109 5,486 1 Kazakhmys Power revenues include the revenues of the Maikuben West coal mine for the period up to its disposal on 17 May 2011.
In addition, Kazakhmys Power revenues include 50% of the revenues of Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP and the external revenues of the Groups captive power stations for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011.
Revenues by destination to third parties are as follows: $ million 2012 2011 Continuing operations Europe 665 1,454 China 1,769 1,629 Kazakhstan 769 343 Other 150 137 3,353 3,563 Discontinued operations Europe 1,153 1,325 China 24 16 Kazakhstan 25 Other 289 324 1,466 1,690 Share of joint ventures revenues Kazakhstan 279 210 Other 11 23 290 233 Total revenues 5,109 5,486 Year ended 31 December 2012 Four customers, three of which are collectively under common control, within the Kazakhmys Mining segment represent 37% of total Group revenue for the year from continuing operations.
The total revenue from these customers is $1,245 million.
The revenue from the three customers under common control of $999 million represents 30% of the total Group revenue from continuing operations.
Revenues from the fourth major customer of $246 million represent 7% of total Group revenue from continuing operations.
com 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 4.
Segment information continued Year ended 31 December 2011 Four customers, three of which are collectively under common control, within the Kazakhmys Mining segment represent 45% of total Group revenue for the year from continuing operations.
The total revenue from these customers is $1,600 million.
The revenue from the three customers under common control of $1,207 million represents 34% of the total Group revenue from continuing operations.
Revenues from the fourth major customer of $393 million represent 11% of total Group revenue from continuing operations.
Special items Special items are those items which are non-recurring or variable in nature and which do not impact the underlying trading performance of the business.
$ million 2012 2011 Continuing operations Special items within operating profit: 1 Additional disability benefits obligation charge arising from new legislation enacted in Kazakhstan 146 Impairment charges reversals note 7 192 15 2 Impairment charge against property, plant and equipment 110 11 2 Impairment charge reversal against mining assets 82 7 Provisions released against inventories 19 Loss on disposal of subsidiary note 36 8 200 131 Special items within profit before taxation: Subsidiary businesses Impairment charge against investment in associate 2,223 Associate 385 1 Impairment charge recognised by associate 316 Onerous contract provision 85 Net gain arising from business combinations 23 Acquisition related transaction costs credit 7 1 2,808 130 Special items within profit for the year: Subsidiary businesses 73 57 Refund of previous EPT payments 60 Recognition of a deferred tax asset resulting from the impairment of Bozymchak 13 Recognition of a deferred tax asset on additional disability benefits obligation arising from new legislation enacted in Kazakhstan 29 Recognition of a deferred tax asset on major social projects 26 Tax effect of special items 2 2,735 73 Discontinued operations Special items within operating profit: Impairment charges note 7 17 453 Impairment charge against intangible assets Kazakhmys Petroleum 444 Impairment charge against property, plant and equipment MKM 3 1 Provisions against inventories MKM 14 8 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries note 36 13 44 30 497 Special items within profit for the year: Release of deferred tax liabilities resulting from the impairment of MKM 2 2 28 495 1 During 2011, new legislation was enacted in Kazakhstan which increased the level of disability benefits payable to former and current disabled employees of the Group.
The enhancement in the level of disability benefits payable has resulted in an additional provision being recognised in the Groups defined benefit obligation see note 28.
2 These impairment charges primarily relate to the Bozymchak project see note 7.
114 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements 6.
Cost of sales, selling and distribution expenses, administrative expenses and operating income expenses a Cost of sales $ million 2012 2011 Raw materials 509 504 Employee salaries and payroll taxes 474 354 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 219 187 Production overheads 416 318 Mineral extraction tax 260 280 Other taxes 34 43 Utilities 34 49 Change in work in progress and finished goods 77 116 Continuing operations 2,023 1,619 Discontinued operations 1,359 1,583 3,382 3,202 b Selling and distribution expenses $ million 2012 2011 Transportation expenses 30 30 Port charges 24 20 Employee salaries and payroll taxes 2 3 Raw materials 1 2 Other 7 9 Continuing operations 64 64 Discontinued operations 39 54 103 118 c Administrative expenses $ million 2012 2011 Employee salaries and payroll taxes 236 190 Personal injury claims 207 165 Legal and professional 64 87 Social responsibility costs 52 78 Levies and charges 9 52 Transportation 58 49 Depreciation and amortisation 41 38 Business travel 27 23 Medical and social support 22 22 Supplies 16 14 Utilities 23 13 Communication 6 5 Bank fees 2 2 Other 42 13 Continuing operations 805 751 Discontinued operations 24 25 829 776 d Other operating expense income $ million 2012 2011 Lease income 18 13 Depreciation of leased assets 16 11 Loss on disposal of subsidiary 8 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 Other net 9 3 Net operating expense income attributable to continuing operations 17 5 Net operating income attributable to discontinued operations 5 5 12 10 www.
com 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 7.
Impairment losses $ million 2012 2011 1 Impairment charge against property, plant and equipment note 7 a and note 7 d 110 11 1 Impairment charge reversal against mining assets note 7 a and note 7 e 82 7 Provisions raised released against inventories note 7 b 1 1 Provisions raised against prepayments and other current assets 7 Provisions raised against trade and other receivables note 7 c 4 6 Continuing operations 202 9 1 Discontinued operations note 7 f 18 453 220 462 1 These impairments are considered to be special items for the purposes of determining the Groups key financial indicator of EBITDA excluding special items and Underlying Profit see note 5.
Year ended 31 December 2012 a Kazakhmys Mining impairment charge against mining assets and property, plant and equipment The Bozymchak gold copper development project, included in the Kazakhmys Mining segment, has been subject to an impairment review due to difficulties experienced from operating in Kyrgyzstan.
The impairment review has assumed a revised date for commercial production, additional capital costs and re-assessed the risks associated with the projects execution.
As a result, the Group has recognised an impairment charge of $162 million against the mining assets and property, plant and equipment of the Bozymchak project.
The impairment charge reduces the carrying value of the Bozymchak project to its recoverable amount of $106 million, determined as its value-in-use on a discounted cash flow basis, as at 31 December 2012.
The charge of $162 million has been recorded against tangible assets mining assets $71 million and property, plant and equipment $91 million with an associated deferred tax credit of $13 million.
The cash flow forecasts were discounted at a pre-tax rate of 16%.
The impairment charge against property, plant and equipment also includes $11 million relating to transportation infrastructure owned by the Group following a change in the intended use of the assets and a reassessment of their future cash flows.
In addition, during 2012 mining assets of $11 million were impaired which relate to the Kazakhmys Mining segment.
Of this total, $7 million relates to the write-down of the assets attributable to the Nikolayevsky mine which was suspended in August 2012 as it was no longer considered economically viable to operate this mine.
b Kazakhmys Mining inventories Included within the provisions against inventories is the release of an impairment charge of $1 million 2011: charge of $18 million relating to general slow moving and obsolete inventory.
In 2011, the general and slow moving inventory impairment provision was offset by the reversal of a previous impairment provision of $19 million held against certain by-products for which sales contracts were agreed at prices greater than the previously recognised net realisable value.
Only impairment charges or reversals recognised against ore and finished goods inventories are treated as special items see note 5. c Kazakhmys Mining trade and other receivables Provisions against trade and other receivables include an amount of $4 million 2011: $6 million within Kazakhmys Mining in respect of trust activities.
Under the terms of its subsoil licences, Kazakhmys LLC is required to provide certain social services to the communities in which its mining activities operate.
These trust activities are provided by municipal authority companies under trust management agreements.
For most receivable balances due from municipal authorities, full provision is recognised in light of their past payment histories.
Year ended 31 December 2011 d Kazakhmys Mining property, plant and equipment In 2011, the impairment charge mainly relates to an impairment provision of $12 million which has been recognised to write down administrative land and buildings held for disposal to fair value less costs to sell.
e Kazakhmys Mining mining assets The $7 million credit in 2011 mainly relates to a reversal of impairment provisions held against certain mining assets which were considered to be uneconomical in prior years and which have since been prepared for future extraction due to higher commodity prices.
f Discontinued operations Impairment losses within discontinued operations include the impairment of MKM of $17 million 2011: $9 million following the write-down of the business to its fair value less costs to sell see note 37 a.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, impairment losses include the impairment of Kazakhmys Petroleum of $444 million see note 37 b.
Following drilling results received at the end of June 2011, and the receipt of an offer to purchase the Kazakhmys Petroleum business in July 2011, the Directors performed an impairment review of Kazakhmys Petroleum.
The total consideration receivable from the disposal of $119 million, comprising $100 million in cash and a completion adjustment of $19 million, was used to determine the recoverable amount, resulting in a $444 million impairment charge being recognised.
The sale and purchase agreement was signed on 24 August 2011 and the sale completed on 23 December 2011.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, the negotiations over the completion adjustment were concluded which resulted in the reduction of the consideration receivable by $13 million.
116 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements 8.
Employee information $ million 2012 2011 Wages and salaries 659 531 Social security costs 58 56 Post-employment benefits note 28 192 158 Continuing operations 909 745 Discontinued operations 57 66 966 811 Other non-monetary employee benefits including sanatorium visits, medical services, nourishment and treatment expenses are also provided by Kazakhmys LLC, and are included in the income statement in the expense line relating to the nature of the cost.
The average weekly number of employees during the year was as follows: 2012 2011 Kazakhmys Mining 56,324 55,376 1 MKM 1,095 1,099 2 Kazakhmys Power 2,596 3,891 3 Kazakhmys Petroleum 135 Corporate Services 384 318 Total employees 60,399 60,819 1 MKM is included within discontinued operations for the current and prior years see note 37 a.
2 Kazakhmys Power includes the employees of the Groups captive power stations for the current and prior years.
The employees of the Maikuben West coal mine are only included for the period ended 17 May 2011, the date on which it was sold see note 37 c. Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP is treated as an equity accounted joint venture so its employees are not included in the analysis above.
3 The employees of Kazakhmys Petroleum are only included for the period ended 23 December 2011, the date on which it was sold see note 37 b. Analysed as: 2012 2011 1 Central Asia 59,237 59,666 Germany 1,095 1,099 UK 56 48 Netherlands 2 2 China 9 4 60,399 60,819 1 Includes Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
The average weekly number of employees during the year within continuing operations is 59,304 2011: 59,249 and 1,095 2011: 1,570 within discontinued operations.
Key management personnel In accordance with IAS 24 Related party disclosures, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly.
Key management personnel of the Group during the year ended 31 December 2012 are deemed to be the Directors of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, Head of Projects, Head of Human Resources and Head of the Commercial Division.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, prior to his appointment to the Groups Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer of Kazakhmys LLC was also deemed to be key management of the Group.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors comprises the following: $ million 2012 2011 Salaries 9.6 8.9 Annual bonuses 4.0 4.8 1 Share awards 3.9 2.6 Benefits 0.9 0.8 18.4 17.1 1 Share awards are long term in nature which will be awarded after a three year vesting period see note 38 a.
Disclosures on Directors remuneration required by the Companies Act 2006 and those specified for audit by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 are included in the Directors Remuneration Report and form part of these consolidated financial statements.
com 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 10.
Auditors remuneration The auditors remuneration for services provided to the Group during the year ended 31 December 2012 was $2.3 million 2011: $3.4 million, comprised as follows: $ million 2012 2011 Audit and other services: Amounts receivable by the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of these financial statements 0.8 0.8 Amounts receivable by the Companys auditor and its associates in respect of: the audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 1.2 1.6 audit-related assurance services 0.3 0.4 regulatory reporting services pursuant to legislation as reporting accountants 0.1 2.3 2.9 Other services: services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.5 Total remuneration 2.3 3.4 Other services relating to corporate finance transactions of $nil 2011: $0.5 million were payable to Ernst & Young LLP for services in connection with the Groups secondary listing on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
In June 2012, after a competitive tender process, KPMG Audit Plc was appointed as the Groups auditor replacing Ernst & Young LLP.
In the amounts above, auditors remuneration for services provided during the year ended 31 December 2011 were accordingly paid to Ernst & Young LLP, and during the year ended 31 December 2012, to KPMG Audit Plc.
Auditor remuneration for the audit of the financial statements of MKM for the year ended 31 December 2012 and the review of the financial information for the six months ended 30 June 2012 of $0.2 million is payable to MKMs statutory auditors, Ernst & Young GmBH in Germany.
These amounts are not included in the table above.
Finance income and finance costs $ million 2012 2011 Finance income Interest income 17 8 Foreign exchange gains 47 61 Finance income attributable to continuing operations 64 69 Interest income Foreign exchange gains 10 14 Finance income attributable to discontinued operations 10 14 74 83 Finance costs Interest expense 79 42 Total interest expense 118 70 1 Less: amounts capitalised to the cost of qualifying assets 39 28 Interest on employee obligations 15 14 Unwinding of discount on provisions 8 7 Finance costs before foreign exchange losses 102 63 Foreign exchange losses 53 74 Finance costs attributable to continuing operations 155 137 Interest expense 5 9 Unwinding of discount on provisions 1 Foreign exchange losses 10 15 Finance costs attributable to discontinued operations 15 25 170 162 1 At 31 December 2012, the Group capitalised to the cost of qualifying assets $39 million 2011: $28 million of borrowing costs incurred on the outstanding debt during the period on the CDB Samruk-Kazyna financing facilities at an average rate of interest of 5.54% 2011: 5.24%.
118 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements 12.
Income taxes a Income statement Major components of income tax expense for the years presented are: $ million 2012 2011 Current income tax Corporate income tax current period UK 7 21 Corporate income tax current period overseas 148 298 Corporate income tax prior periods 23 10 Excess profits tax prior periods 60 21 Deferred income tax Corporate income tax current period temporary differences 32 67 Income tax expense attributable to continuing operations 86 221 Current income tax attributable to discontinued operations 7 3 Deferred income tax attributable to discontinued operations 6 Income tax credit attributable to discontinued operations 7 3 Total income tax expense 79 218 A reconciliation of the income tax expense applicable to the accounting loss profit before tax at the statutory income tax rate to the income tax expense at the Groups effective income tax rate is as follows: $ million 2012 2011 Loss profit before taxation from continuing operations 2,204 1,623 1 At UK statutory income tax rate of 24.5% 2011: 26.5% 540 430 Tax effect of share of profits from joint venture 31 27 Tax effect of share of losses profits from associate 63 123 Under over provided in previous years current income tax 23 10 Unrecognised tax losses 16 Effect of domestic tax rates applicable to individual Group entities 11 66 Deferred tax asset recognised on major social projects 26 Non-deductible items: Impairment charge against investment in associate 545 Transfer pricing 6 26 Other non-deductible expenses 53 38 Release of excess profits tax provision 21 Refund of previous excess profits tax payments 60 Income tax expense attributable to continuing operations 86 221 Income tax attributable to discontinued operations 7 3 Total income tax expense 79 218 1 For 2012, the UK statutory rate for January to March 2012 was 26.0% and for April to December 2012 was 24.0%, giving a weighted average full year rate of 24.5%.
For 2011, the UK statutory income tax rate for January to March 2011 was 28.0% and for April to December 2011 was 26.0%, giving a weighted average full year rate of 26.5%.
Corporate income tax CIT is calculated at 24.5% 2011: 26.5% of the assessable profit for the year for the Company and its UK subsidiaries, 20.0% for the operating subsidiaries in Kazakhstan 2011: 20.0% and 10.0% for the Groups Kyrgyzstan based subsidiary 2011:10%.
MKM, which is included as part of discontinued operations, has a tax rate of 28.5% 2011: 28.5% which relates to German corporate income tax and trade tax.
Effective tax rate Tax charges are affected by the mix of profits and tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The lower CIT rate in Kazakhstan and the recognition of equity accounted earnings of ENRC and Ekibastuz GRES-1 on a post-tax basis will have the effect of lowering the Groups overall future effective tax rate below the UK statutory corporate tax rate of 24%.
The impact of transfer pricing provisions and nondeductible items, including impairment losses, will increase the Groups overall future effective tax rate.
The following factors impact the Groups effective tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2012: Unrecognised tax losses Following an assessment over the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets recognised in respect of brought forward losses of $71 million, the Group has written-off certain deferred tax assets of $16 million relating primarily to loss-making subsoil use contracts which are no longer considered to be in a position to generate sufficient taxable profits to offset these losses in the foreseeable future.
Consequently, the related deferred tax assets are deemed as irrecoverable.
Impairment charge against investment in associate At 31 December 2012, the Group recognised an impairment charge against its investment in ENRC of $2,223 million.
As there is no tax relief available on the ENRC impairment charge, the impairment has put the Group into a loss making position without a corresponding tax credit, thereby placing considerable upward pressure on the Groups effective tax rate.
com 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 12.
Income taxes continued Transfer pricing Notwithstanding recent changes to Kazakhstans transfer pricing legislation to closer align it with international trading practices, inconsistencies still arise between the transfer pricing requirements in Kazakhstan and the UK.
Consequently, certain of the Groups profits are taxed in both jurisdictions due to intercompany sales and purchase contracts that have been put in place within the Group which places upward pressure of $3 million 2011: $23 million on the Groups effective tax rate.
In addition, certain sales contracts entered into by Kazakhmys LLC with European and Russian customers included trading terms that are not fully acceptable under Kazakhstan transfer pricing legislation.
Consequently, a provision of $3 million has been recognised based on this anticipated exposure at 31 December 2012 2011: $3 million.
Non-deductible expenses Included within non-deductible expenses are impairment charges and provisions recognised against various assets and other ongoing business expenses within Kazakhmys Mining.
The reversal of the provision for environmental pollution charges see note 29 c and the related fines and penalties amounting to $38 million in aggregate is non-taxable and offset non-deductible expenses.
Excess profits taxation In August 2011, the tax authorities completed the audit of Kazakhmys LLC for the years 2006 and 2008 inclusive, with no additional claims being raised in respect of excess profits taxation EPT.
Subsequently, in October 2011 the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan issued a ruling that Kazakhmys LLC should not have been liable for EPT in the periods up to and including 2008.
As a result of the completed tax audit, which confirmed the EPT methodology adopted by the company for the years 2006 to 2008, together with a previous tax audit for the years 2003 to 2005, along with the Supreme Courts ruling, the Directors believed that no further obligations existed in respect of EPT for the years 2003 to 2008.
As a result, the EPT provision of $21 million recognised in earlier years relating to the uncertainties over the judgements that were made in respect of Kazakhmys LLCs methodology of computing EPT in the periods up to and including 2008 was released at 31 December 2011.
The total EPT provision recognised as at 31 December 2010 was $49 million, including $28 million related to fines and penalties.
In 2012, following the Supreme Courts ruling, Kazakhmys LLC lodged a claim with the Ministry of Finance to seek reimbursement of past EPT payments amounting to $108 million for the periods up to and including 2008.
In the second half of 2012, the Ministry of Finance partially accepted Kazakhmys LLCs position and $60 million has been set-off against the income tax and mineral extraction tax liabilities for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The remaining $48 million has been challenged by the tax authorities who believe that this amount relates to periods beyond the Kazakhstan statute of limitations see note 34 b.
The reimbursement of $60 million has been achieved by reducing the income tax and mineral tax payments for the year ended 31 December 2012 and has lowered the Groups effective income tax rate.
The following additional factors impacted the Groups effective tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2011 only: Deferred tax asset on major social projects In 2011, the Group determined that the cost of constructing the major social projects in Kazakhstan will be deductible against taxable profits in the future as a result of amendments in the tax legislation which were introduced in January 2011.
The introduction of these amendments has resulted in the recognition of a $26 million deferred tax asset at 31 December 2011.
Non-deductible expenses Included within non-deductible expenses are the additional tax assessments and related fines and penalties, resulting from the completion of the tax audit conducted at Kazakhmys LLC for the years 2006 to 2008 inclusive in August 2011.
As a result, the Directors have made a provision for these additional tax assessments, which represents the Directors best estimate of the amounts that are expected to be paid to settle this potential liability.
Also included within non-deductible expenses is the charge for the incremental provision for environment pollution charges see note 29 c and the related fines and penalties amounting to $11 million.
The reversal of the provision for fines and penalties of $28 million relating to the release of the provision for excess profits tax refer above is non-taxable and offsets the upward pressure on the Groups effective tax rate arising from non-deductible items.
Other non-deductible items relate to ongoing business expenses and impairment losses at Kazakhmys Mining.
b Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities The amounts of deferred taxation assets liabilities provided in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: As at Net As at 1 January Continuing exchange 31 December $ million 2012 operations translation 2012 Intangible assets 7 1 8 Property, plant and equipment 79 1 78 Mining assets 6 4 10 Trade and other receivables 12 1 11 Provisions and employee benefits 47 36 1 82 Trade and other payables 56 5 1 60 Tax losses 20 14 6 Share-based payment schemes 3 3 Deferred tax asset, net 55 32 1 86 Analysed as: Deferred tax asset 61 27 1 87 Deferred tax liability 6 5 1 120 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements As at As at 1 January Continuing Disposal of 31 December $ million 2011 operations subsidiary 2011 Intangible assets 6 1 7 Property, plant and equipment 77 2 79 Mining assets 6 6 Trade and other receivables 8 4 12 Provisions and employee benefits 16 36 5 47 Trade and other payables 27 29 56 Tax losses 25 5 20 Deferred tax liability asset, net 7 67 5 55 Analysed as: Deferred tax asset 9 52 61 Deferred tax liability 16 15 5 6 c Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets not recognised in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: 2012 2011 Temporary Deferred Temporary Deferred $ million difference tax asset difference tax asset Continuing operations: Kazakhstan tax losses Losses carried forward 87 17 6 1 Continuing operations: UK tax losses Losses carried forward 31 7 Discontinued operations: Germany tax losses Corporate income tax 166 26 174 28 Trade tax 124 16 134 17 Total losses carried forward 290 42 308 45 Details of the Groups tax losses arising in the jurisdictions in which it operates are as follows: i Kazakhstan At 31 December 2012, Kazakhmys LLC has corporate income tax losses on certain subsoil use contracts that can be carried forward and used against future taxable profits arising from those subsoil use contracts.
Under Kazakhstan tax legislation, tax losses from loss making subsoil use contracts may not be offset against the taxable profits of profitable subsoil use contracts.
Kazakhmys LLC expects that certain subsoil use contracts will be in a tax loss making position for the foreseeable future and will have no taxable profits against which the losses can be offset.
Therefore, no deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the tax losses associated with these subsoil use contracts.
Tax losses arising from subsoil use contracts that are expected to be profitable in the future have been recognised as deferred tax assets.
ii United Kingdom Certain companies in the UK have tax losses that can be carried forward and used against future taxable profits in these companies.
There is no time restriction over the utilisation of tax losses.
There is insufficient certainty that a taxable profit will arise in these companies against which the losses can be offset.
For these reasons, no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
iii Germany MKM has corporate income tax losses that can be carried forward and used against future taxable profits, subject to restrictions set out under German tax legislation.
Due to the past history of tax losses, there is insufficient certainty over the ability of MKM to utilise these losses and consequently, no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
d Unrecognised deferred tax liability The gross temporary differences in respect of the undistributed reserves of the Groups subsidiaries, as shown in their statutory accounts prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, are as follows: $ million 2012 2011 Undistributed reserves of subsidiaries 6,477 5,986 The Group has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of the distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
com 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 13.
Earnings per share a Basic and diluted EPS Basic EPS is calculated by dividing loss profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares of 20 pence each outstanding during the year.
Purchases of the Companys shares by the Employee Benefit Trust and by the Company under the share buy-back programme are held in treasury and treated as own shares.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the EPS computations: $ million 2012 2011 Net loss profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company from continuing operations 2,291 1,402 Net profit loss attributable to equity shareholders of the Company from discontinued operations 20 472 2,271 930 Number 2012 2011 Weighted average number of ordinary shares of 20 pence each for EPS calculation 524,496,185 533,794,387 EPS basic and diluted $ From continuing operations 4.37 2.63 From discontinued operations 0.04 0.88 4.33 1.75 b EPS based on Underlying Profit The Groups Underlying Profit is the profit for the year after adding back items which are non-recurring or variable in nature and which do not impact the underlying trading performance of the business and their resultant tax and minority interest effects, as shown in the table below.
EPS based on Underlying Profit is calculated by dividing Underlying Profit by the number of ordinary shares of 20 pence each outstanding during the year.
The Directors believe EPS based on Underlying Profit provides a more consistent measure for comparing the underlying trading performance of the Group.
The following shows the reconciliation of Underlying Profit from the reported loss profit and the share data used in the computations for EPS based on Underlying Profit: $ million 2012 2011 Net loss profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company from continuing operations 2,291 1,402 Special items within operating profit note 5: Subsidiary businesses 200 131 Special items within profit before taxation note 5: Subsidiary businesses 2,223 Associate 385 1 Special items within profit for the year note 5: Subsidiary businesses 73 57 Underlying Profit from continuing operations 444 1,475 Net profit loss attributable to owners of the Company from discontinued operations 20 472 Special items within operating profit note 5 30 497 Special items within profit for the year note 5 2 2 Underlying Profit from discontinued operations 48 23 Total Underlying Profit 492 1,498 Number 2012 2011 Weighted average number of ordinary shares of 20 pence each for EPS based on Underlying Profit calculation 524,496,185 533,794,387 EPS based on Underlying Profit basic and diluted $ From continuing operations 0.85 2.76 From discontinued operations 0.09 0.04 0.94 2.80 14.
Dividends paid and proposed a Dividends paid The dividends paid during the year ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 are as follows: Per share Amount US cents $ million Year ended 31 December 2012 Final dividend in respect of year ended 31 December 2011 20.0 105 Interim dividend in respect of year ended 31 December 2012 3.0 16 23.0 121 Year ended 31 December 2011 Final dividend in respect of year ended 31 December 2010 16.0 86 Interim dividend in respect of year ended 31 December 2011 8.0 43 24.0 129 122 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements i Year ended 31 December 2012 On 15 May 2012, the Company paid the final dividend of $105 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011 to shareholders on the register as at 20 April 2012.
On 3 October 2012, the Company paid an interim dividend of $16 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012 to shareholders on the register as at 7 September 2012. ii Year ended 31 December 2011 On 17 May 2011, the Company paid the final dividend of $86 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010 to shareholders on the register as at 26 April 2011.
On 4 October 2011, the Company paid an interim dividend of $43 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011 to shareholders on the register as at 9 September 2011. b Dividends declared after the balance sheet date Per share Amount US cents $ million Proposed by the Directors on 27 February 2013 not recognised as a liability as at 31 December 2012 : Final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012 8.0 42 15.
Intangible assets $ million Licences Other Total Cost At 1 January 2011 495 27 522 Additions 8 8 Disposals 6 6 Disposal of subsidiary note 36 451 451 Net exchange adjustment 3 1 4 At 31 December 2011 35 34 69 Additions 5 13 18 Disposals 4 4 At 31 December 2012 40 43 83 Amortisation At 1 January 2011 6 7 13 Amortisation charge 1 2 3 Impairment note 7 f 444 444 Disposal of subsidiary 444 444 At 31 December 2011 7 9 16 Amortisation charge 2 5 7 Disposals 4 4 At 31 December 2012 9 10 19 Net book value At 31 December 2012 31 33 64 At 31 December 2011 28 25 53 a Non-cash transactions During the year ended 31 December 2012, the Group reassessed the payment for licences provision which resulted in an increase of $5 million within Kazakhmys Mining 2011: $6 million was derecognised within Kazakhmys Petroleum which were capitalised by the Group in respect of contractual reimbursements to the Government for geological information and social commitments.
This amount is a non-cash item and is recorded within provisions for payments of licences.
b Other The amortisation charge for the year is allocated to production expenses $2 million 2011: $1 million and administrative expenses $5 million 2011: $2 million as appropriate.
com 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 16.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and Construction $ million buildings equipment Other in progress Total Cost At 1 January 2011 1,117 1,699 348 341 3,505 Additions 8 143 35 388 574 Capitalised borrowing costs 28 28 Capitalised depreciation 6 6 Transfers 2 131 5 134 Disposals 14 12 6 6 38 Disposal of subsidiary note 36 112 5 5 122 Net exchange adjustment 7 13 2 5 27 At 31 December 2011 1,102 1,836 375 613 3,926 Additions 19 129 71 454 673 Capitalised borrowing costs 36 36 Capitalised depreciation 7 7 Transfers 26 64 5 95 Disposals 20 26 52 3 101 Net exchange adjustment 15 28 6 12 61 At 31 December 2012 1,112 1,975 393 1,000 4,480 Depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2011 474 920 151 22 1,567 Depreciation charge 49 135 33 217 Disposals 7 11 4 22 Impairment note 7 d 6 4 4 3 11 Net exchange adjustment 3 5 2 10 At 31 December 2011 519 1,043 182 19 1,763 Depreciation charge 53 150 33 236 Disposals 12 19 20 51 Impairment note 7 a 16 3 1 92 110 Net exchange adjustment 8 15 3 26 At 31 December 2012 568 1,162 191 111 2,032 Net book value At 31 December 2012 544 813 202 889 2,448 At 31 December 2011 583 793 193 594 2,163 124 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements 17.
Mining assets Mine Mine Exploration development stripping Construction $ million cost costs costs in progress Total Cost At 1 January 2011 177 364 40 69 650 Additions 33 9 76 118 Capitalised depreciation 3 3 Transfers 7 60 67 Disposals 6 6 Net exchange adjustment 2 3 1 6 At 31 December 2011 215 421 46 77 759 Additions 50 5 34 120 209 Capitalised borrowing costs 3 3 Capitalised depreciation 5 5 Transfers 12 78 90 Disposals 1 6 20 1 28 Net exchange adjustment 3 8 1 1 13 At 31 December 2012 273 490 64 108 935 Depletion and impairment At 1 January 2011 28 153 30 211 Depletion charge 20 5 25 Disposals 6 6 Impairment note 7 e 3 10 7 Net exchange adjustment 1 1 At 31 December 2011 28 175 19 222 Depletion charge 25 20 45 Disposals 6 19 25 Impairment note 7 a 70 5 5 2 82 Net exchange adjustment 1 2 3 At 31 December 2012 97 197 25 2 321 Net book value At 31 December 2012 176 293 39 106 614 At 31 December 2011 187 246 27 77 537 18.
Investment in joint venture $ million 2012 2011 At 1 January 838 742 1,2 Share of profits from joint venture 126 100 2 Net share of losses of joint venture recognised in other comprehensive income 9 4 Dividends received 28 At 31 December 927 838 1 Share of profits from joint venture is net of tax.
2 Based on the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 of Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP.
com 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 18.
Investment in joint venture continued The investment in joint venture relates to the Groups 50% shareholding in Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP.
The following is a summary of the financial information of the Groups investment in joint venture based on Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLPs financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011: $ million 2012 2011 Share of joint ventures assets and liabilities Non-current assets 640 522 Current assets 65 91 705 613 Non-current liabilities 95 95 Current liabilities 21 18 116 113 Net assets 589 500 Carrying amount of the investment 927 838 $ million 2012 2011 Share of joint ventures revenue and profit Revenue 290 233 Operating profit 155 126 Net finance income 3 Income tax expense 32 26 Profit for the year 126 100 19.
Investment in associate The Group holds 334,824,860 shares in ENRC representing 26.0% of the issued share capital.
There have been no changes in this holding in 2012 and 2011.
$ million 2012 2011 Investment in associate At 1 January 4,600 4,356 1,2 Share of losses profits from associate 258 466 2 Net share of losses of associate recognised in other comprehensive income 33 109 Impairment charge against investment in associate 2,223 Dividends received 59 113 At 31 December 2,027 4,600 1 Share of losses profits from associate is net of tax.
2 Based on ENRCs unaudited preliminary financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 published on 20 March 2013.
At 31 December 2012, the carrying value of the Groups equity investment in ENRC of $4,250 million exceeded the market value of $1,546 million by an amount that the Directors deemed as significant as envisaged by IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
Whilst the market value of the Groups investment in ENRC was below its carrying value at 31 December 2011 and 30 June 2012, the impairment reviews performed at those dates did not result in any impairment charges being recognised.
However, since the impairment review performed at 30 June 2012, the price expectations and outlook for ENRCs key products has weakened, ENRC has announced a revised capital expenditure programme and, in addition, ENRCs gearing levels have increased significantly.
As a result, taking these developments into account, the impairment review performed in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets concluded that an impairment charge of $2,223 million should be recognised at 31 December 2012.
In determining the value-in-use of the ENRC investment, the Directors made assumptions of the future cash flows to be generated by ENRC using assumptions derived from publicly available information on ENRCs production volumes and capital expenditure, inflation, exchange rates and commodity price forecasts.
The calculation of the value-in-use generated a range of outcomes as the calculation is particularly sensitive to changes in commodity prices, operating cost inflation, capital expenditure and the discount rate used.
In addition, the valuation of certain of ENRCs development assets involved a high degree of judgement given their relatively early stage in the project lifecycle.
Any changes to the assumptions adopted in the calculation of the value-in-use, individually or in aggregate, would result in a different value-in-use being determined.
Accordingly, in determining a valuation point within the range of outcomes determined by the calculation of the value-inuse, the Directors have also considered ENRCs market valuation over several historical periods and the results of recent valuations performed by equity analysts.
126 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements The accounting period end of ENRC is 31 December.
The following is a summary of the financial information of the Groups investment in ENRC based on ENRCs published unaudited results: $ million 2012 2011 Share of associates assets and liabilities Total assets 5,243 4,034 Total liabilities 2,500 1,113 Net assets 2,743 2,921 Carrying amount of the investment 2,027 4,600 $ million 2012 2011 Share of associates revenue and profit Revenue 1,643 2,003 Operating loss profit 146 700 Net gain arising from business combinations 23 Loss profit before finance items, taxation and share of profits from joint ventures and associates 123 700 Net finance costs and share of loss of joint ventures and associates 69 31 Income tax expense and non-controlling interests 66 203 Loss profit for the year 258 466 20.
Other non-current assets $ million 2012 2011 Advances paid for property, plant and equipment 456 112 Non-current VAT receivable 69 1 Other non-current investments 25 10 Gross value of other non-current assets 550 122 Provision for impairment 18 19 532 103 1 Other non-current investments include long-term deposits placed in escrow accounts with financial institutions in Kazakhstan as required by the Groups site restoration obligations amounting to $9 million 2011: $8 million and unlisted investments of $16 million 2011: $2 million, principally the Groups investment in a hydroelectric development company in Kazakhstan of $14 million.
Inventories $ million 2012 2011 Raw materials and consumables 399 312 Work in progress 278 309 Finished goods 159 212 Gross value of inventories 836 833 Inventories provision 86 89 750 744 The carrying amount of inventory that has been written down to net realisable value is $86 million 2011: $89 million.
Prepayments and other current assets $ million 2012 2011 Advances paid for goods and services 151 102 VAT receivable 185 89 Amounts due from related parties 13 10 Other 58 46 Gross value of prepayments and other current assets 407 247 Provision for impairment of receivables 27 20 380 227 Provision for impairment as at 31 December 2012 includes a provision against the balances due from related parties included within other companies see note 35, amounting to $5 million 2011: $5 million.
com 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 23.
Trade and other receivables $ million 2012 2011 Trade receivables 175 241 Amounts due from related parties 58 52 Amounts due from third parties 117 189 Interest receivable 3 1 Gross value of trade and other receivables 178 242 Provision for impairment of receivables 56 52 122 190 Included within trade receivables is an amount of $3 million 2011: $3 million within trade payables in respect of provisionally priced metal sales which are marked-to-market using forward prices in accordance with the Groups revenue recognition accounting policy.
Provision for impairment as at 31 December 2012 includes a provision on receivables due from related parties included within companies under trust management see note 35, amounting to $51 million 2011: $48 million.
Current investments $ million 2012 2011 At 1 January 810 356 Additions 51 534 Disposals 333 80 Disposal of subsidiary note 36 a 13 At 31 December 2012 515 810 Current investments consist of bank deposits with initial terms of maturities of between three and twelve months held with institutions in the UK and Kazakhstan.
Cash and cash equivalents $ million 2012 2011 Cash deposits with initial maturities of less than three months 1,107 884 Cash at bank 139 218 1 Continuing operations 1,246 1,102 Discontinued operations 4 9 Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 1,250 1,111 1 Current investments and cash and cash equivalents include approximately $1,545 million 2011: $900 million of cash drawn down under the CDB Samruk-Kazyna financing facilities which is reserved for specific development projects in accordance with the relevant facility agreements see note 27.
Share capital and reserves a Allotted share capital Number million $ million Allotted and called up share capital Ordinary shares of 20 pence each At 1 January 2011 535,240,338 107 200 Issuance of Companys share capital pursuant to acquisition of non-controlling interest in subsidiary 177,623 At 1 January 2012 535,417,961 107 200 Issuance of Companys share capital pursuant to acquisition of non-controlling interest in subsidiary 2,219 At 31 December 2012 535,420,180 107 200 During 2012, the Company issued 2,219 ordinary shares of 20 pence each and paid $2 million in consideration for the transfer of 7,160,730 units in Kazakhmys LLC from non-controlling shareholders.
Following this transaction, the Companys interest in Kazakhmys LLC increased from 99.88% at 31 December 2011 to 99.90% at 31 December 2012.
During 2011, the Company issued 177,623 ordinary shares of 20 pence each and paid $8 million in consideration for the transfer of 49,266,115 units in Kazakhmys LLC from non-controlling shareholders.
Following this transaction, the Companys interest in Kazakhmys LLC increased from 99.73% at 1 January 2011 to 99.88% at 31 December 2011.
128 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements b Own shares i Own shares purchased under the Groups share-based payment plans The provision of shares to the Groups share-based payment plans is facilitated by an Employee Benefit Trust see note 38.
The cost of shares purchased by the Trust is charged against retained earnings as treasury shares.
The Employee Benefit Trust has waived the right to receive dividends on these shares.
At 31 December 2012, the Group, through the Employee Benefit Trust, owned 763,794 shares in the Company 2011: 848,309 with a market value of $10 million and a cost of $14 million 2011: $12 million and $16 million respectively.
ii Own shares purchased under the Companys share buy-back programme On 25 August 2011, the Group announced a share buy-back programme of up to $250 million, the completion of which was subject to market conditions.
The buy-back programme commenced on 27 September 2011 following receipt of regulatory and shareholder approval.
In the period from 1 January 2012 to 10 May 2012, when the buy-back programme ceased, the Group purchased 6,142,120 shares at a cost of $88 million.
In total, since the buy-back commenced, the Group purchased 11,701,830 shares at a cost of $166 million equivalent to 2.2% of the issued share capital prior to the commencement of the buy-back programme.
The bought back shares are held in treasury and have been accounted for as own shares.
The cost of the shares has been charged against retained earnings and no dividends are declared on these shares.
c Capital reserves Net unrealised Currency Capital gains losses translation redemption Hedging $ million Reserve fund reserve reserve reserve reserve Total At 1 January 2011 42 2 787 6 2 739 1 Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations 21 21 Recycling of exchange differences on disposal of subsidiaries 33 33 Share of losses of joint venture recognised in other comprehensive income 4 4 Share of losses of associate recognised in other comprehensive income 45 64 109 At 31 December 2011 42 43 843 6 2 840 1 Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations 50 50 Share of losses of joint venture recognised in other comprehensive income 9 9 Share of gains losses of associate recognised in other comprehensive income 43 76 33 At 31 December 2012 42 978 6 2 932 1 Of the $50 million 2011: $21 million of foreign exchange differences recognised in the currency translation reserve for the year, $2 million 2011: $3 million relates to discontinued operations.
i Reserve fund In accordance with legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan the reserve fund comprises prescribed transfers from retained earnings amounting to 15% of Kazakhmys LLCs charter capital.
ii Net unrealised gains losses reserve The net unrealised gains losses reserve is used to record the fair value movements of available for sale investments within the Groups associate, ENRC.
iii Currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the US dollar into the Groups presentation currency.
iv Capital redemption reserve As a result of the share buy-back programme undertaken in 2008, transfers were made from share capital to the capital redemption reserve based on the nominal value of the shares cancelled.
v Hedging reserve The hedging reserve is used to record the fair value movements of derivative financial instruments that have been designated as cash flow hedges within the Groups associate, ENRC.
com 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 27.
Borrowings Average interest rate during Currency of Current Non-current Total Maturity the year denomination $ million $ million $ million 31 December 2012 Continuing CDB facility US$ LIBOR 4.80% 2023 5.54% US dollar 29 2,439 2,468 29 2,439 2,468 Discontinued Revolving trade finance facility EURIBOR 2.25% 2015 2.60% Euro 125 125 31 December 2011 Continuing CDB facility US$ LIBOR 4.80% 2023 5.24% US dollar 1,281 1,281 Pre-export finance facility 2008 US$ LIBOR 1.25% 2013 1.48% US dollar 525 87 612 525 1,368 1,893 Discontinued Revolving trade finance facility EURIBOR 2.25% 2015 3.83% Euro 121 121 a Continuing operations Pre-export finance facility 2012 On 20 December 2012, Kazakhmys Finance PLC Kazakhmys Finance, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, signed a five year pre-export finance facility for $1.0 billion with a syndicate of banks to be used for general corporate purposes.
The funds are available for drawing at any time within a year from the date of the agreement and once drawn will attract interest at US$ LIBOR plus 2.80%.
The facility has a final maturity date of December 2017 and monthly loan repayments of principal will commence in January 2015.
Kazakhmys PLC, Kazakhmys LLC and Kazakhmys Sales Limited act as guarantors of the loan.
At 31 December 2012, the loan remained undrawn.
Pre-export finance facility 2008 On 29 February 2008, Kazakhmys Finance signed a five year pre-export finance facility for $2.1 billion with a syndicate of banks to be used for general corporate purposes.
As at 31 December 2012 the loan was fully repaid.
Arrangement fees with an amortised cost as at 31 December 2011 of $2 million, gross cost before amortisation of $26 million, were netted off against these borrowings in accordance with IAS 39.
Interest was payable on the drawn balance at a rate of US$ LIBOR plus 1.25%.
Kazakhmys PLC, Kazakhmys LLC and Kazakhmys Sales Limited acted as guarantors of the loan.
China Development Bank CDB and JSC Sovereign Wealth Fund Samruk-Kazyna Samruk-Kazyna financing line On 30 December 2009, Kazakhmys announced that it had secured a $2.7 billion financing line with CDB and Samruk-Kazyna, allocated from a $3.0 billion financing line agreed between CDB and Samruk-Kazyna.
Of the $2.7 billion secured for the Group, facility agreements were signed for $2.1 billion on 30 December 2009, and for a further $200 million on 12 January 2010, for the development of the Groups projects at Bozshakol and Bozymchak and other development projects, and two facility agreements for $200 million each, allocated to the AkbastauKosmurun and Zhomart projects, were signed on 11 June 2012.
Samruk-Kazyna has separately signed an agreement for $300 million of the $3.0 billion to be used elsewhere and not for the benefit of the Group, which was subsequently repaid to Samruk-Kazyna in January 2013.
As part of this financing package, the Company, along with a subsidiary of Samruk-Kazyna, provided a guarantee in favour of CDB in respect of Samruk-Kazynas obligations under the $3.0 billion financing line, including 85% of the $300 million which was not on-lent for the benefit of the Group.
The funds, which were fully drawn down in January 2013, attract interest semi-annually at an annualised rate of US$ LIBOR plus 4.8%.
The loans have a final maturity falling between January 2022 and August 2025 with first repayments commencing in January 2013.
As at 31 December 2012, $2.5 billion 2011: $1.3 billion was drawn under the facility agreements.
Arrangement fees with an amortised cost as at 31 December 2012 of $32 million 2011: $19 million, gross cost before amortisation of $40 million 2011: $22 million, have been netted off against these borrowings in accordance with IAS 39.
China Development Bank CDB Aktogay finance facility On 16 December 2011, the Group signed a $1.5 billion loan facility with the CDB, to be used for the development of the major copper project at Aktogay.
The loan facility consists of two separate agreements with similar terms and conditions.
The first agreement is for up to $1.3 billion and the second agreement for up to RMB1.0 billion $159 million equivalent at the year end RMB $ exchange rate.
The US dollar agreement attracts interest at US$ LIBOR plus 4.2% and the RMB agreement attracts interest at the applicable benchmark lending rate published by the Peoples Bank of China.
The funds are available to draw down over a three year period commencing from 31 December 2012 and mature 15 years from the date of first draw down.
At 31 December 2012, the finance facility remained undrawn.
Kazakhmys PLC acts as guarantor of the loan.
Revolving credit facilities The Group has available several revolving credit facilities entered into by Kazakhmys Finance PLC for general corporate purposes and to provide standby liquidity.
At 31 December 2012, facilities amounting to $250 million had maturity dates in March 2013 and a $50 million facility had a maturity date in September 2013, all of which were undrawn.
In March 2013, Kazakhmys Finance PLC extended the term of a $100 million facility expiring in March 2013 for an additional two years to March 2015.
The remaining facility amounting to $150 million which expired on 22 March 2013 was not renewed.
130 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Undrawn project and general and corporate purpose facilities $ million 2012 2011 Pre-export finance facility within Kazakhmys Finance 1,000 CDB Aktogay finance facility within Kazakhmys Finance 1,500 CDB Samruk-Kazyna project specific finance facility within Kazakhmys Finance 200 1,400 Revolving credit facilities within Kazakhmys Finance 300 300 Letter of credit and bank guarantee facilities within Kazakhmys LLC 85 56 3,085 1,756 b Discontinued operations Revolving trade finance facility In May 2006 MKM entered into a revolving trade finance facility with a syndicate of banks for a four year loan to finance the repayment of external borrowings and intercompany balances due to Kazakhmys LLC, and to fund working capital.
In June 2009 the facility was refinanced with a new 170 million facility for three years with a final maturity in June 2012 which attracted interest at a rate of EURIBOR plus 3.00%.
On 21 July 2011, the facility was refinanced for a further four years with a final maturity in July 2015.
The facility was also increased from 170 million to 220 million, with interest now payable on the drawn balance at a rate of EURIBOR plus 2.25%.
The loan is secured over the inventories and receivables of MKM.
Employee benefits Kazakhmys LLC provides post-retirement benefits and other long-term benefits in Kazakhstan which are unfunded.
These benefits include one-time retirement grants, financial aid, dental care, medical benefits, long-term disability allowances, sanatorium visits, annual financial support to pensioners, free tickets for city buses, privilege tickets for shuttle buses and funeral aid.
The amounts recognised in the income statements are as follows: $ million 2012 2011 Employers share of current service cost 2 2 Employers share of past service cost 151 Actuarial losses recognised in period 190 5 Interest cost on benefits obligation 15 14 207 172 During 2012, pay awards were made in Kazakhstan, particularly targeted at those categories of employees engaged in hazardous activities, which significantly exceeded the assumptions made relating to future salary increases included in the actuarial valuation performed as at 31 December 2011.
Furthermore, there was a reduction in the discount rate applied in the actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2012 compared to the prior year.
Consequently, the defined benefits obligation has increased significantly over the prior year.
During 2011, new legislation was enacted in Kazakhstan which increased the amounts payable for disability benefits.
Under the new legislation, which applies retrospectively, the benefits payable are calculated on the basis of average salaries of employees currently in service.
Prior to the change in the legislation, benefits payable were calculated on the basis of historic salaries that were increased annually by the official inflation rate prevailing in Kazakhstan.
This change resulted in an average increase of approximately 290% within each category of benefits payable under the legislation over the prior year.
The expense is recognised in the following line items of the income statements: $ million 2012 2011 Administrative expenses 192 158 Finance costs 15 14 207 172 As the change in legislation in 2011 was non-recurring and did not impact the underlying trading performance of the business, $146 million of the total charge of $172 million, which related solely to the change in legislation, was treated as a special item.
The movement in the defined benefits obligation is as follows: $ million 2012 2011 At 1 January 216 58 Employers share of current service cost 2 2 Employers share of past service cost 155 Net actuarial losses arising in the period 190 6 Interest cost on benefit obligation 15 14 Benefits provided to employees 41 19 Net exchange adjustment 5 At 31 December 377 216 Unrecognised actuarial losses 1 1 Unrecognised past service cost 3 4 Net liability at 31 December 373 211 www.
com 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 28.
Employee benefits continued The employee benefits obligation of $373 million, consists of $36 million 2011: $34 million related to post-employment benefits and $337 million 2011: $177 million related to other long-term benefits.
The expected settlement of the defined benefit obligation is as follows: $ million 2012 2011 Current 43 23 Non-current 330 188 Net liability at 31 December 373 211 The principal actuarial assumptions used in determining the defined benefit obligation are as follows: $ million 2012 2011 Discount rate at 31 December 7.2% 8.0% Future salary increases 3.2% 5.0% Medical and other related cost increases 5.0% 5.0% In addition, mortality rates were determined with reference to the 2011 mortality table of Kazakhstan as published by the Government.
Historical information is as follows: $ million 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Present value of the defined benefits obligation 373 211 58 50 40 Deficit in the plan 373 211 58 50 40 Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 197 6 The Group continues to pay the non-monetary benefits described in note 8.
Provisions Site restoration Payments for $ million and clean up licences Other Total At 1 January 2011 49 69 27 145 Arising reversing during the year 4 6 11 9 Utilised 3 7 10 Unwinding of discount 4 4 8 Disposal of subsidiary 23 23 At 31 December 2011 54 37 38 129 Arising reversing during the year 9 5 38 24 Utilised 1 5 6 Unwinding of discount 4 4 8 Net exchange adjustment 1 1 2 At 31 December 2012 65 40 105 Current 5 5 Non-current 65 35 100 At 31 December 2012 65 40 105 Current 5 38 43 Non-current 54 32 86 At 31 December 2011 54 37 38 129 a Site restoration and clean up The costs of decommissioning and reclamation of mines within the Group are based on the amounts included in the Groups contracts for subsoil use.
The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated costs to decommission and reclaim the mines at the dates of depletion of each of the deposits.
The present value of the provision has been calculated using a discount rate of 7.2% 2011: 8.0% per year.
The liability becomes payable at the end of the useful life of each mine which ranges from one to 50 years.
Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning and reclamation alternatives, and the levels of discount and inflation rates.
b Payments for licences for mining assets In accordance with its contracts for subsoil use, the Group is liable to repay the costs of geological information provided by the Government of Kazakhstan for licensed deposits.
The total amount payable by the Group is discounted to its present value using a discount rate of 7.2% 2011: 8.0%.
The uncertainties include estimating the amount of the payments and their timing.
The amounts are payable prior to 2019.
132 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements c Other Other provisions are recorded where the Group has a legal or constructive obligation and a future outflow of resources is considered probable.
Other provisions primarily relate to environmental pollution charges EPC incurred in prior periods where there remained uncertainty over their eventual amount and the timing of settlement.
The EPC provision arose from the tax audit conducted at Kazakhmys LLC for the years 2006 to 2008 inclusive, which identified a potential exposure resulting from a difference in interpretation on the applicability of stabilised rates relating to EPC and similar legislative matters.
At 31 December 2011, the Directors assessed the position of Kazakhmys LLC and recognised a provision of $38 million including fines and penalties reflecting the probability that a settlement would be negotiated with the tax authorities following agreement being reached on the interpretation of the relevant legislation, notwithstanding that the Group had challenged the basis of certain of the claims assessed by the tax authorities in the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan.
In May 2012, the Supreme Court ruled in favour of Kazakhmys LLC in its appeal over certain of the claims levied by the tax authorities.
The Supreme Courts ruling confirmed the basis used by Kazakhmys LLC in calculating certain of its EPC liabilities for the periods under audit.
Consequently, the Directors believe that the likelihood of further liabilities or exposures existing in respect of EPC for the periods 2006 to 2008 is remote and a provision of $38 million, including fines and penalties, relating to the possible settlement of some of the additional liabilities calculated by the tax authorities has been released as at 31 December 2012.
Trade and other payables $ million 2012 2011 Payables under social obligations 168 181 Salaries and related payables 90 71 Trade payables 108 69 Mineral extraction tax payable 71 66 Other taxes payable 56 54 Interest payable 63 25 Payments received in advance 32 20 Amounts payable to related parties 1 1 Other payables and accrued expenses 33 12 622 499 31.
Reconciliation of loss profit before taxation to net cash inflow from operating activities $ million 2012 2011 Loss profit before taxation from continuing operations 2,204 1,623 Profit loss before taxation from discontinued operations 26 431 Interest income 17 8 Interest expense 84 51 Share-based payments 6 4 Depreciation and depletion 269 233 Amortisation 7 3 Share of profits from joint venture 126 100 Share of losses profits from associate 258 466 Impairment losses 2,443 462 Unrealised foreign exchange loss gain 6 3 Loss on disposal of subsidiary 8 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 Operating cash flows before changes in working capital and provisions 762 1,368 Increase in non-current VAT receivable 69 Increase in inventories 40 67 Increase in prepayments and other current assets 177 77 Decrease in trade and other receivables 52 78 Increase in employee benefits 168 154 Decrease increase in provisions 35 20 Increase in trade and other payables 171 62 Cash flows from operations before interest, income taxes and dividends from associate and joint venture 832 1,538 Non-cash transactions There were the following non-cash transactions: as stated in note 4 a v the Group capitalised depreciation of $12 million 2011: $9 million for property, plant and equipment and mining assets: the Group reassessed $5 million 2011: $6 million released relating to provisions for contractual reimbursements payable to the Government for geological information and social commitments with a corresponding increase in intangible assets: and the reassessment of the site restoration and clean up provisions during the year has resulted in the capitalisation of $9 million 2011: $4 million to property, plant and equipment, with a corresponding increase in the site restoration and clean up provisions.
com 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 32.
Movement in net debt liquid funds At Attributable to At Other 1 January discontinued 31 December 1 $ million 2012 Cash flow operations movements 2012 Cash and cash equivalents 1,102 140 5 1 1,246 Current investments 810 282 13 515 Borrowings 1,893 569 1 7 2,468 Net debt liquid funds 19 711 6 21 707 At Attributable to At 1 January discontinued Other 31 December 1 $ million 2011 Cash flow operations movements 2011 Cash and cash equivalents 1,113 20 4 5 1,102 Current investments 356 454 810 Borrowings 1,819 3 70 7 1,893 Net liquid funds debt 350 437 66 2 19 1 Other movements comprise net foreign exchange movements, non-cash amortisation of fees on borrowings and other non-cash reconciling items.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, the $13 million movement in current investments relates to the investments disposed when the captive insurance company in Kazakhstan was sold in early 2012 see note 36 a.
Financial risk management The financial information disclosed in the tables relating to the year ended 31 December 2012 represents continuing operations only.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are liquidity risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and commodity price risk.
These risks arise from exposures that occur in the normal course of business and are managed by the Groups Treasury department in close cooperation with the Groups business divisions under oversight of a Treasury Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
The responsibilities of the Treasury Committee include the monitoring of financial risks, management of the Groups cash resources, debt funding programmes and capital structure, approval of counterparties and relevant transaction limits, and oversight of all significant treasury activities undertaken by the Group.
The Treasury department operates as a service centre to the business divisions of the Group and not as a profit centre.
A Group Treasury Policy has been approved by the Board and is periodically updated to reflect developments in the financial markets and the financial exposures facing the Group.
The Treasury Policy covers specific areas of financial risk management, in particular, liquidity risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and commodity price risk.
The Groups Treasury Committee and the Groups Internal Audit department monitor compliance with the Treasury Policy on a regular basis.
The Groups Treasury department prepares monthly treasury reports for senior management which monitor all major financial exposures and treasury activities undertaken by the Group.
In addition, a treasury report is prepared for each Board meeting which includes a summary of the credit markets and their impact on the implementation of the Groups strategy, progress on the Groups financing initiatives and the significant financial exposures faced by the Group.
The Groups principal financial instruments comprise borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, current investments and derivatives used for risk management purposes.
The Groups borrowings, surplus liquidity and derivative financial instruments are controlled and managed centrally by the Groups Treasury department.
Liquidity retained within Kazakhstan is only held for working capital purposes.
The Groups accounting policies with regard to financial instruments are detailed in note 3. a Derivatives, financial instruments and risk management The Group periodically uses derivative financial instruments to manage certain exposures to fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates and exchange rates.
The Groups philosophy is generally not to hedge its core revenue streams.
In periods of significant market volatility or uncertainty, the Group may use derivative instruments as a means of reducing volatility and any negative impact on its operating cash flows.
Strict limits on the size and type of any derivative hedge transaction are laid down by the Board and subject to strict internal controls.
The Group does not hold any speculative financial instruments.
MKM uses natural hedging arising on back-to-back purchase and supply contracts to manage, to the fullest extent possible, its economic exposure to changes in the price of copper.
In the event of any timing mismatch on the purchase and supply contracts, MKM uses commodity futures to manage its short-term exposure to changes in the price of copper.
All commodity hedge contracts are for short-term duration less than 12 months.
134 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements b Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities by categories are as follows: $ million Notes 2012 2011 1 Loans and receivables 20, 23, 24, 25 1,892 2,110 2 Available for sale assets 20 16 2 3 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 27, 29, 30 2,971 2,289 1 Loans and receivables comprise long-term deposits within other non-current investments see note 20, trade and other receivables, current investments and cash and cash equivalents.
2 Available for sale assets comprise unlisted investments within other non-current investments see note 20.
3 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost comprise borrowings, provision for cash payments payments for licences and trade and other payables excluding payments received in advance, other taxes payable and mineral extraction tax payable that are not regarded as financial instruments.
c Foreign exchange risk The Group has transactional currency exposures.
Such exposures arise from sales or purchases by an operating company in currencies other than that companys functional currency.
The functional currency of Kazakhmys Mining production entities and Kazakhmys Power is the Kazakhstan tenge, with Kazakhmys Services Ltd having a UK sterling functional currency, the Bozymchak project in Kyrgyzstan having a Kyrgyz Som functional currency and the Company, the Groups financing and holding companies and also the sales entity of Kazakhmys Mining Kazakhmys Sales Ltd having a US dollar functional currency.
The currencies giving rise to this foreign currency risk are primarily the US dollar based revenues and certain costs, bank deposits and trade receivables of Kazakhmys LLC and certain intercompany funding balances that exist within the Group.
Where possible, the Group attempts to conduct its business, maintains its monetary assets and seeks to source corporate debt capital in US dollars so as to minimise its exposure to other currencies.
The Group retains surplus cash balances in US dollars for capital expenditure, acquisitions and returns to shareholders.
Working capital balances are maintained in a mix of US dollars and local currencies depending on short-term requirements of the business.
Whilst there is a strong correlation between many mining input costs and the US dollar, a significant portion of the mining business operating costs are denominated in local currencies, particularly the Kazakhstan tenge.
Rates of exchange for these currencies relative to the US dollar could fluctuate significantly and may materially impact the profitability of the underlying operations and the net assets of the Group.
The Group generally does not enter into hedging positions in respect of its exposure to foreign currency risk.
From time to time, acquisitions and capital investments may expose the Group to movements in other currencies and the Group will consider hedging such exposures on a case by case basis.
During 2011, the Group entered into a series of forward foreign exchange transactions to purchase KZT against the USD with a value of $40 million per month from April through to December 2011.
The forward transactions were executed at rates averaging between 144.65 KZT USD and 145.44 KZT USD on a monthly basis.
The purpose of the forward contracts was to hedge the impact on KZT denominated operating costs of the possible appreciation of the tenge against the US dollar.
The swaps were terminated during 2011 and no positions remain outstanding in respect of 2012 or future years.
i Foreign currency exposure by company profile The analysis in the table below of the net monetary assets and liabilities including intercompany amounts indicates the Groups exposure to currencies other than the functional currency of a company.
These exposures represent the transactional exposures that may give rise to net currency gains and losses recognised in the income statement.
As at 31 December 2012 and 2011 these exposures were as follows: $ million US dollar UK sterling Euro KZT Other 2012 Company n a 3 Kazakhmys LLC 186 22 n a 6 Other trading companies 190 n a 1 Non-trading or holding companies 88 2 24 798 84 1 2 798 5 $ million US dollar UK sterling Euro KZT Other 2011 Company n a 6 Kazakhmys LLC 301 1 n a 2 Other trading companies 5 n a 2 Non-trading or holding companies 61 9 9 281 367 3 8 281 4 www.
com 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 33.
Financial risk management continued ii Foreign currency exposure by balance sheet account profile The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk based on gross amounts is shown below: $ million US dollar UK sterling Euro KZT Other Total 2012 Trade and other receivables 271 1 1,581 1 1,854 Current investments 38 38 Cash and cash equivalents 50 2 24 10 7 93 Provisions for cash payments 38 38 Borrowings 187 736 923 Trade and other payables 50 3 23 57 3 136 84 1 2 798 5 888 $ million US dollar UK sterling Euro KZT Other Total 2011 Trade and other receivables 355 294 649 Current investments 20 20 Cash and cash equivalents 161 9 10 3 1 184 Provisions for cash payments 35 35 Borrowings 120 120 Trade and other payables 14 6 2 16 5 43 367 3 8 281 4 655 iii Foreign currency sensitivity analysis In accordance with IFRS 7, the impact of foreign currencies has been determined based on the balances of financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2012.
This sensitivity does not represent the income statement impact that would be expected from a movement in exchange rates over the course of a period of time.
In addition, the analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.
A 10% strengthening of the US dollar against the following currencies at 31 December would have increased equity and profit after tax by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2011: Impact on profit $ million 2012 2011 KZT 80 3 Euro 1 UK sterling A 10% weakening of the US dollar against the above currencies at 31 December would have had an equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
136 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements d Commodity price risk The Groups mining revenues and earnings are directly impacted by fluctuations in the prices of the commodities it produces.
The Groups principal commodities copper, zinc, gold and silver are priced via reference to global metal exchanges, upon which pricing is derived from global demand and supply and influenced by macroeconomic considerations and financial investment cash flows.
The pricing of the Groups principal commodities may also include a pre-determined margin or discount depending on the terms of sales contracts.
Commodity prices, particularly those derived from global metal exchanges, may fluctuate significantly and may have a material impact on the Groups financial results.
Management closely monitors the impact of fluctuations in commodity prices on the business and uses conservative pricing assumptions and sensitivity analysis for its forecasting and investment appraisals.
The Power business positions the Group as a significant net generator in the Kazakhstan power market.
The Kazakh power market has a predominance of large industrial electricity users focused on the natural resource sector, and consequently, electricity demand tends to broadly follow the commodity cycle.
The Group sells its power to a mix of wholesale and industrial customers through directly negotiated bilateral contracts.
In April 2009, to encourage investment in the power sector, the Government introduced a framework to raise tariff ceilings for domestic electricity sales for the years 2009 to 2015.
The ceiling prices will be set by the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies on an annual basis, and are subject to the generator meeting capital investment commitments.
In accordance with IFRS 7, the impact of commodity prices has been determined based on the balances of financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2012.
This sensitivity does not represent the income statement impact that would be expected from a movement in commodity prices over the course of a period of time.
A 10% increase decrease in commodity prices would have no impact on profit after tax 2011: $nil.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular costs, remain constant and was performed on the same basis as 2011. e Interest rate risk The Group has financial assets and liabilities which are exposed to changes in market interest rates.
Changes in interest rates primarily impact borrowings by changing their future cash flows floating rate debt or their fair value fixed rate debt and deposits.
The Groups interest rate management policy is generally to borrow and invest at floating rates of interest.
In some circumstances, an element of fixed rate funding may be considered appropriate.
A limited amount of fixed rate hedging using interest rate swaps may be undertaken during periods where the Groups exposure to movements in short-term interest rates is more significant, or in periods when interest rates are perceived to be below long-term historical levels.
The Group had no outstanding interest rate swaps as at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011.
At 31 December 2012 and 2011 all borrowings were at floating rates.
The exposure of the Groups financial assets and liabilities to interest rate risk is as follows: At 31 December 2012 Floating Non-interest $ million rate Fixed rate bearing Total Financial assets Non-current investments 9 16 25 Trade and other receivables 122 122 Current investments 515 515 Cash and cash equivalents 461 715 70 1,246 Total financial assets 461 1,239 208 1,908 Financial liabilities Provisions for cash payments 40 40 Borrowings 2,468 2,468 1 Trade and other payables 463 463 Total financial liabilities 2,468 40 463 2,971 At 31 December 2011 Non-interest $ million Floating rate Fixed rate bearing Total Financial assets Non-current investments 8 2 10 Trade and other receivables 190 190 Current investments 810 810 Cash and cash equivalents 401 681 20 1,102 Total financial assets 401 1,499 212 2,112 Financial liabilities Provisions for cash payments 37 37 Borrowings 1,893 1,893 1 Trade and other payables 359 359 Total financial liabilities 1,893 37 359 2,289 1 Trade and other payables exclude payments received in advance, other taxes payable and mineral extraction tax payable that are not regarded as financial instruments.
com 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 33.
Financial risk management continued The interest charged on floating rate financial liabilities is based on the relevant benchmark rate such as LIBOR.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
In accordance with IFRS 7, the impact of interest rates has been determined based on the balances of financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2012.
This sensitivity does not represent the income statement impact that would be expected from a movement in interest rates or outstanding borrowings over the course of a period of time.
The effect on profit after tax of a 1% movement in US$ LIBOR rates, based on the year-end net debt position and with all other variables held constant, is estimated to be $15 million 2011: $9 million.
f Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Groups ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets and commitments due from third parties.
The Group has adopted policies and procedures to control and monitor the distribution of these exposures to minimise the risk of loss in the event of non-performance by counterparties.
The maximum exposure with respect to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset on the balance sheet.
Credit risk relating to trade receivables Given the number and geographical spread of the Groups ultimate customers and the solvency of major trade debtors, credit risk is believed to be limited in respect of trade receivables.
The Group regularly monitors its exposure to bad debts in order to minimise this exposure.
Customer credit risk is managed by each division but is subject to Group oversight to ensure that each divisions customer credit risk management system operates in a prudent and responsible manner.
Credit evaluations are performed for all major customers and credit limits are established based on internal or external rating criteria.
The credit quality of the Groups significant customers is monitored on an on-going basis, and receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are considered of good credit quality.
Letters of credit are obtained where customer credit quality is not considered strong enough for open credit.
There were no material impairments of trade receivables during the year ended 31 December 2012 or 2011.
The solvency of the debtor and their ability to repay the receivables were considered in assessing the impairment of such assets.
Within Kazakhmys Mining, cash is received prior to delivery and transfer of title of the goods for sales to European customers.
Sales to Chinese customers are made under letters of credit which are obtained prior to delivery and transfer of title of the goods.
Payment from European and Chinese customers is subject to provisional pricing and then final pricing adjustments.
Kazakhmys Mining is therefore exposed to the residual final pricing adjustment for each sales transaction although such amounts are not considered material in the context of the Groups overall revenues.
Kazakhmys Mining also provides certain social services to municipal authorities in the communities in which it operates as part of its contractual obligations under its subsoil licences.
For most receivable balances due from municipal authorities, full provision is recognised in light of past payment history.
Kazakhmys Power receives cash upfront or has short payment terms depending on the nature of the customer.
As at 31 December 2012, 10 2011: 10 customers accounted for 56% 2011: 87% of the trade and other receivables balance of Kazakhmys Mining.
By 20 March 2013, 99.85% 22 March 2012: 98% of year-end balances due from these customers had been received in full.
i Risk for trade receivables by geographical regions The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at 31 December by geographic areas was: $ million 2012 2011 Europe 8 24 China 68 121 Kazakhstan 43 34 Other 3 11 122 190 138 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements ii Impairment losses The ageing of trade receivables at 31 December was: 2012 2011 $ million Gross Impairment Gross Impairment Not past due 109 178 Past due 0-90 days 7 10 2 Past due 91-180 days 4 2 1 Past due 181-270 days 8 6 4 1 More than 270 days 50 50 48 48 178 56 242 52 The movement in the provision for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: $ million 2012 2011 At 1 January 52 49 Charged to income statement 4 6 Written off 3 At 31 December 56 52 Credit risk related to financial instruments and cash deposits Credit risk relating to the Groups other financial assets, comprising principally cash and cash equivalents, current investments and derivative financial instruments arises from the potential default of counterparties.
Credit risk arising from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Groups Treasury Committee in accordance with a Board approved Treasury Policy.
The Groups cash management policies emphasise security and liquidity ahead of investment return.
Investment of cash and deposits are made only with approved counterparties of high credit worthiness and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty.
Exposures are measured against maximum credit limits assigned to each approved counterparty to ensure credit risk is effectively managed.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate any financial loss through potential counterparty failure.
In order to manage counterparty and liquidity risk, surplus funds within the Group are held predominantly in the UK and funds remaining in Kazakhstan are utilised mainly for working capital purposes.
The Group must maintain a level of cash and deposits in Kazakhstan with local branches of international financial institutions and well established local Kazakhstan banks.
The surplus funds in the UK are held primarily with major European and US financial institutions with minimum ratings of Standard & Poors Aand Moodys A3 and AAA rated liquidity funds.
These limits are reviewed on a regular basis to take account of developments in financial markets and updated accordingly.
No material exposure is considered to exist by virtue of the possible non-performance of the counterparties to derivative financial instruments.
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December was: $ million 2012 2011 Non-current investments 25 10 Trade and other receivables 122 190 Current investments 515 810 Cash and cash equivalents 1,246 1,102 1,908 2,112 g Liquidity risk The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between availability of funding and maximising investment return on its liquid resources through the use of liquid cash investments and debt facilities of varying maturities.
Management regularly reviews the funding requirements of the Group in selecting appropriate maturities for its liquid cash investments.
The Group maintains back-up liquidity for debt maturing within 12 months by way of committed revolving credit facilities totalling $300 million, the undrawn balance under the pre-export finance facility and by maintaining cash on the balance sheet see note 27.
The Groups policy is to centralise debt and surplus cash balances to the maximum extent possible.
com 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 33.
Financial risk management continued Maturity of financial assets and liabilities The table below analyses the Groups financial assets and liabilities, which will be settled on a gross basis, into relevant maturity groups based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
On Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 More than $ million demand 3 months months years 5 years Total 2012 1 Provisions for cash payments 1 4 32 26 63 2 Borrowings 33 204 1,159 2,019 3,415 3 Trade and other payables 463 463 497 208 1,191 2,045 3,941 Non-current investments 16 9 25 Trade and other receivables 122 122 Current investments 515 515 Cash and cash equivalents 139 1,107 1,246 139 1,229 515 16 9 1,908 139 732 307 1,175 2,036 2,033 Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 More than $ million On demand 3 months months years 5 years Total 2011 1 Provisions for cash payments 5 27 25 57 2 Borrowings 152 452 901 788 2,293 3 Trade and other payables 1 358 359 1 510 457 928 813 2,709 Non-current investments 2 8 10 Trade and other receivables 190 190 Current investments 810 810 Cash and cash equivalents 218 884 1,102 218 1,074 810 2 8 2,112 217 564 353 926 805 597 1 Provisions for cash payments are presented on an undiscounted gross basis.
2 Borrowings include expected future interest payments based on contracted margins and prevailing LIBOR rates at the balance sheet date.
3 Trade and other payables exclude payments received in advance, other taxes payable and mineral extraction tax payable that are not regarded as financial instruments.
h Fair value of financial assets and liabilities Set out below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements.
2012 2011 Carrying Carrying $ million value Fair value value Fair value Non-current investments 25 25 10 10 Trade and other receivables 122 122 190 190 Current investments 515 515 810 810 Cash and cash equivalents 1,246 1,246 1,102 1,102 Provisions for cash payments 40 40 37 37 Borrowings 2,468 2,456 1,893 1,867 1 Trade and other payables 463 463 359 359 1,063 1,051 177 151 1 Trade and other payables exclude payments received in advance, other taxes payable and mineral extraction tax payable that are not regarded as financial instruments.
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: cash and cash equivalents, current investments, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and dividends payable approximate to their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments: provisions for cash payments are discounted back to their present value: and the fair value of borrowings is estimated by discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar maturities.
140 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements i Capital management The over-riding objectives of the Groups capital management policy are to safeguard and support the business as a going concern through the commodity cycle, to maximise returns to shareholders either through dividends or share buy-backs and benefits to other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure in order to reduce the Groups cost of capital.
At 31 December 2012, total capital employed which comprises equity holders funds, non-controlling interests and borrowings of the Group amounted to $8,733 million, compared to $10,725 million at 31 December 2011.
Total capital employed is the measure of capital that is used by the Directors in managing capital.
At 31 December 2012, the Group is in a net debt position from continuing operations of $707 million 2011: net funds of $19 million.
The Group does not have a target debt equity ratio, but has determined a maximum debt capacity based on a ratio of long-term normalised EBITDA which the Board believes establishes a sustainable level of gearing through the commodity cycle.
This ratio is reviewed in conjunction with market conditions and prevailing commodity prices in order to ensure an efficient capital structure that is balanced against the risks of carrying excessive leverage.
The Group manages net debt to ensure that it does not exceed two times normalised EBITDA through the commodity cycle, where normalised EBITDA excludes special items and equity accounted earnings from ENRC and Ekibastuz GRES-1.
Included within the debt facilities are financial covenants related to maximum borrowing levels of the Group determined by reference to net debt to EBITDA and debt to equity ratios, minimum tangible net worth of individual Group entities and consolidated gross assets to gross liabilities ratios, for which compliance certificates are produced.
All financial covenants were fully complied with during the year and up to the date of approval of the financial statements.
There are no covenants under negotiation at present.
Commitments and contingencies a Legal claims In the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to legal actions and complaints.
The Directors believe that the ultimate liability, if any, arising from such actions or complaints will not have a materially adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Group.
As of 31 December 2012 and 2011, the Group was not involved in any significant legal proceedings, including arbitration, which may crystallise a financial loss for the Group.
b Kazakhstan taxation contingencies i Inherent uncertainties in interpreting tax legislation The Group is subject to uncertainties relating to the determination of its tax liabilities.
Kazakhstan tax legislation and practice are in a state of continuous development and, therefore, are subject to varying interpretations and changes which may be applied retrospectively.
The Directors interpretation of tax legislation as applied to the transactions and activities of the Group may not coincide with that of the tax authorities.
As a result, the tax authorities may challenge transactions and the Group may be assessed with additional taxes, penalties and fines which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial performance or position.
ii Kazakhmys Mining tax audits During 2010 and 2011, a tax audit for the years 2006 to 2008 was undertaken at Kazakhmys LLC whose scope included corporate income tax, environmental taxes and other taxes charged to the income statement.
The tax audit was completed and a final assessment issued in October 2011, which resulted in a claim against Kazakhmys LLC in excess of the amounts previously paid.
The Directors have recognised a provision for the amounts that represent the Directors best estimate of the probable cash payments that will be required to settle these claims.
The risk exists that the ultimate settlement will exceed the Directors estimation.
The tax computations for the years ended 31 December 2009, 2010 and 2011 remain open for inspection during a future tax audit.
Consequently, the tax figures recorded in the financial statements for these years may be subject to change.
iii Kazakhmys Mining transfer pricing In June 2010, amendments to Kazakhstans transfer pricing legislation were passed into law and were made largely retrospective from 1 January 2009.
The new legislation clarified certain areas of interpretation, including the use of LME and LBMA prices as the basis of market prices, quotation periods to be used for the sale and purchase of traded commodities and the acceptability of discounts with reference to LME LBMA prices when transacting in traded commodities.
Notwithstanding these amendments, the Directors have recognised a provision for the amounts that represent the Directors best estimate of the probable cash payments that will be required to settle any residual transfer pricing exposures based on the Directors interpretation of the new transfer pricing legislation including the impact of the amendments passed into law in June 2010 and the prevailing status of discussions with the tax authorities.
The risk remains that the tax authorities may take a different position with regards to the interpretation of the new transfer pricing legislation, and amendments thereof, and the outcome of discussions with the Kazakhstan tax authorities may be materially different from the Directors expectations.
com 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 34.
Commitments and contingencies continued iv Kazakhmys Mining excess profits tax New tax legislation came into force in Kazakhstan on 1 January 2009 which removed the tax stabilisation of subsoil use contracts and changed the excess profits tax methodology.
Based on production and material flows within Kazakhmys LLC for the periods subsequent to 31 December 2008, the Directors interpretation of the new tax legislation is that excess profits tax should no longer be levied on Kazakhmys LLCs operations after 1 January 2009.
The Directors position is supported by discussions and correspondence with the Government authorities.
However, at 31 December 2012, the risk remained that the tax authorities may take a different position with regard to the interpretation of the new legislation and seek to impose excess profits tax on Kazakhmys LLCs operations for the years subsequent to 2008.
In October 2011, the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan issued a ruling that Kazakhmys LLC should not have been liable for excess profits tax in the periods up to and including 2008.
Following the Supreme Courts ruling, Kazakhmys LLC lodged a claim with the Ministry of Finance to seek reimbursement of past EPT payments amounting to $108 million for the periods up to and including 2008.
The remaining $48 million has been challenged by the tax authorities who believe that this amount relates to periods beyond the Kazakhstan statute of limitations.
Kazakhmys LLC has taken legal action against the tax authorities for the refund of these amounts.
In addition, Kazakhmys LLC believe that the applicable sections of the legislation dealing with the statute of limitations relates to valid tax payments and as these past EPT payments have already been ruled as invalid as a result of the Supreme Court ruling, their refund is therefore not restricted by the statute of limitations.
The reimbursement of $60 million has reduced the income tax and mineral extraction tax liabilities for the year ended 31 December 2012, and has been recognised as a refund of past EPT in the consolidated income statement as a special item.
However, notwithstanding the previous ruling of the Supreme Court and the merits of Kazakhmys LLCs case against the Ministry of Finance, in light of the ongoing legal actions being taken by Kazakhmys LLC against the tax authorities, the Directors believe that sufficient uncertainty still remains over the recoverability of the remaining $48 million such that an asset for this amount has not been recognised in the consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2012. v Period for additional tax assessments The tax authorities in Kazakhstan are able to raise additional tax assessments for five years after the end of the relevant tax period in respect of all taxes, except for excess profits tax.
In respect of excess profits tax, they are able to raise additional tax assessments for five years after the expiration of the terms of the relevant subsoil contract.
vi Possible additional tax liabilities The Directors believe that the Group is in substantial compliance with the tax laws promulgated in Kazakhstan and any contractual terms entered into that relate to tax which affect its operations and that, consequently, no additional material tax liabilities will arise.
However, due to the reasons set out above, the risk remains that the relevant tax authorities may take a differing position with regard to the interpretation of contractual provisions or tax law.
The resulting effect of this matter is that additional tax liabilities may arise.
However, due to the range of uncertainties described above in assessing any potential additional tax liabilities, it is not practical for the Directors to estimate the financial effect in terms of the amount of additional tax liabilities, if any, together with any associated penalties and charges for which the Group may be liable.
c Environmental contingencies Environmental regulations in Kazakhstan are continually evolving and new emissions legislation is expected to be introduced in the near future.
The outcome of environmental regulations under proposal or any future environmental legislation cannot be reliably estimated at present.
As obligations are determined, they will be provided for in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
The Directors believe that there are no significant liabilities under current legislation not accrued for in the Groups consolidated financial statements, however, recognise that the environmental regulators in Kazakhstan may take a differing position with regard to the interpretation of environmental legislation.
The resulting effect is that additional environmental liabilities may arise, however, due to the range of uncertainties, it is not practical for the Directors to estimate any further potential exposures.
The provision that has been made for costs associated with restoration and abandonment of mine sites upon depletion of deposits see note 29, is based upon the estimation of the Groups specialists.
Where events occur that change the level of estimated future costs for these activities, the provision will be adjusted accordingly.
d Use of subsoil and exploration rights In Kazakhstan, all subsoil reserves belong to the State, with the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies the Ministry granting exploration and production rights to third party bodies.
Subsoil and exploration rights are not granted in perpetuity, and any renewal must be agreed before the expiration of the relevant contract or licence.
These rights may be terminated by the Ministry if the Group does not satisfy its contractual obligations.
The current subsoil rights will expire at varying dates up to 2062. e Other commitments The table below sets out the Groups expenditure commitments in property, plant and equipment as at 31 December 2012 and 2011: $ million 2012 2011 Property, plant and equipment 1,208 148 The Group has capital expenditure commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment as well as commitments under its mining subsoil agreements.
Committed expenditure under the subsoil agreements typically relates to investments in community-related projects, and includes investments in social sphere assets, infrastructure and public utilities.
142 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements f Operating lease commitments The operating lease expense for the year was $4 million 2011: $4 million.
At 31 December 2012 and 2011, the Group had the following total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases: $ million 2012 2011 Within one year 4 4 After one year but not more than five years 17 22 More than five years 40 57 61 83 35.
Related party disclosures a Transactions with related parties Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with related parties for the relevant financial period: Amounts Amounts Sales to Purchases owed by owed to related from related related related $ million parties parties parties parties 1 Companies under trust management 2012 10 9 58 2011 13 7 52 1 Other 2012 2 23 13 1 2011 2 25 10 1 1 A provision of $56 million 2011: $53 million has been set against the amounts owed by related parties.
The bad debt expense in relation to related parties was $3 million for the year 2011: $6 million.
i Government Share ownership in the Company On 24 July 2008, the Company issued 80,286,050 ordinary shares to the State Property and Privatisation Committee of the Government, thereby making the Government a 15.0% shareholder of the Company and a related party with effect from this date.
On 4 October 2010, the Groups Chairman, Vladimir Kim, sold 58,876,793 ordinary shares, approximately 11.0% of Kazakhmys shares in issue, to Samruk-Kazyna.
As a result of the transaction, the Governments interest in the Group increased to 139,162,843 ordinary shares, representing approximately 26.0% of the shares in issue.
The Governments interest is held via The State Property & Privatisation Committees existing 15.0% holding and the 11.0% shareholding of Samruk-Kazyna.
Following the purchase of 11,701,830 of the Companys shares under the share buy-back programme which completed in May 2012, the Governments percentage of the total voting rights held has increased to 26.57% as at 31 December 2012.
China Development Bank CDB and Samruk-Kazyna financing line As explained in note 27, the Group secured a $2.7 billion financing line with Samruk-Kazyna, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Government of Kazakhstan, and the CDB.
The terms and conditions of the financing line, including a guarantee issued by the Group over the debt obligations of Samruk-Kazyna to the CDB under the financing line, are considered to be on an arms length basis.
Other transactions Throughout the normal course of business, the Group conducts transactions with entities controlled by the Government.
The principal activities relate to the payment of electricity transmission fees, use of railway infrastructure and payments to tax authorities.
In addition, the Group also constructs or pays for the construction of community assets and projects which may be transferred to the relevant Government department as part of the Groups social programme in Kazakhstan.
Transactions between the Group and Government departments and agencies are considered to be related party transactions.
Disclosure of these routine transactions is not made where all of the following criteria are met: they were done in the ordinary course of business of the Government department and or company: there is no choice of suppliers: and they have terms and conditions including prices, privileges, credit terms, regulations etc that are consistently applied to all entities, public or private.
The Group did not have any material or significant non-arms length or privileged transactions with entities controlled by the Government.
Dividend payment The Governments share of the dividend paid by the Company in 2012 was $32 million 2011: $34 million.
com 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 35.
Related party disclosures continued ii ENRC In 2012 the Group received dividends of $59 million from ENRC, the associated undertaking 2011: $113 million in which the Group has a 26.0% interest.
iii Ekibastuz GRES-1 In 2012 the Group received dividends of $28 million from Ekibastuz GRES-1, the joint venture 2011: $nil in which the Group has a 50.0% interest.
iv Companies under trust management agreements The Group operates a number of companies under trust management agreements with local and state authorities.
The activities include heating distribution systems, road maintenance and aviation services.
The purpose of these agreements is to provide public and social services without any material financial benefit for the Group.
v Other Transactions with other companies primarily relate to the provision of goods and services, on an arms length basis, with companies whose boards or shareholders include members of senior management from the Groups subsidiaries.
b Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Prices for related party transactions are determined by the parties on an ongoing basis depending on the nature of the transaction.
Disposal of subsidiaries Year ended 31 December 2012 a Captive insurance company In early 2012, the Group disposed of its captive insurance company in Kazakhstan, included within Kazakhmys Mining, with net assets of $11 million, for proceeds of $3 million which resulted in the recognition of a loss of $8 million on disposal.
Year ended 31 December 2011 b Kazakhmys Petroleum On 23 December 2011, the Group completed the disposal of Kazakhmys Petroleum, with net assets of $119 million, for a total consideration of $119 million.
Together with the recycling of the foreign currency translation reserve of $24 million, the loss on disposal amounted to $24 million.
In 2012, the negotiations over the completion adjustment in respect of the disposal of Kazakhmys Petroleum were concluded.
As a result of these negotiations, the completion adjustment has been revised downwards resulting in the reduction of the consideration receivable by $13 million, bringing the total loss recognised on the disposal of Kazakhmys Petroleum to $37 million.
The results of the prior period ended 23 December 2011 of Kazakhmys Petroleum and the impact of the reduced completion adjustment are included within the profit loss from discontinued operations see note 37 b. c Maikuben West coal mine On 17 May 2011, the Group completed the disposal of the Maikuben West coal mine, an entity within Kazakhmys Power, for proceeds of $3 million, thereby recognising a loss of $20 million on disposal.
The net assets disposed amounted to $14 million.
The recognised loss represents the excess of the net assets over the proceeds received and the recycling of the foreign currency translation reserve on disposal of $9 million.
The results of the prior period ended 17 May 2011 of the Maikuben West coal mine are included within the profit loss from discontinued operations see note 37 c. 37.
Discontinued operations and assets held-for-sale Discontinued operations consist of MKM, Kazakhmys Petroleum for the period up to 23 December 2011 and the Maikuben West coal mine for the period up to 17 May 2011 within Kazakhmys Power.
a MKM During 2009 the Directors decided to dispose of MKM given the Groups strategy is to focus on natural resource opportunities in the Central Asian region.
The business was classified as an asset held for sale at 31 December 2009, and correspondingly as a discontinued operation in the consolidated income statement for the 2009 financial year.
This classification was made as the Group believed that a sale was highly probable to take place within 12 months from the date the business was first classified as held-for-sale.
The sale of MKM has not completed within the envisaged 12 month period, as negotiations with potential acquirers have taken longer than was originally anticipated, principally due to challenges faced by potential interested parties in raising the finance necessary to complete the transaction.
The failure of the potential acquirers to secure the level of funding required to meet MKMs working capital requirements is a factor that was neither anticipated nor within managements control.
In June 2012, management appointed an investment bank to conduct a structured tender process for the sale of the MKM business.
The sales process managed by the investment bank is being run in conjunction with ongoing discussions held by management with potential suitors who have expressed an interest in acquiring MKM, some of whom have undertaken due diligence on the business.
144 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements The Directors consider that MKM still meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale at the balance sheet date for the following reasons: MKM is available for immediate sale and can be sold to a potential buyer in its current condition: the Groups strategic objective of disposing of MKM remains the same and the Directors remain committed to the sales process: an active marketing programme continues with the engagement of an investment bank to enhance the sales process in conjunction with the ongoing discussions being held by management with potential suitors: discussions are being held with a number of interested parties for the purchase of the business at a price consistent with previous expectations, some of which have engaged advisors and undertaken due diligence on MKM: and a disposal within 12 months is considered to be highly probable.
b Kazakhmys Petroleum Following the decision taken to dispose of Kazakhmys Petroleum in June 2011, the sale of the business completed on 23 December 2011.
Consequently, the results of discontinued operations for the year ended 31 December 2011 include the results of Kazakhmys Petroleum until that date and the impact of the reduced completion adjustment for the year ended 31 December 2012 see note 36 b. c Kazakhmys Power The discontinued operation within Kazakhmys Power comprises the Maikuben West coal mine which was sold on 17 May 2011.
Consequently, the results of discontinued operations for the year ended 31 December 2011 include the results of Maikuben West coal mine until that date see note 36 c. d Financial results, balance sheet and cash flow information of discontinued operations The results from discontinued operations for the year as shown in the consolidated income statement are shown below: $ million 2012 2011 Revenues 1,466 1,690 Cost of sales 1,359 1,583 Operating costs 58 74 Impairment losses 1 Net finance costs 5 11 1 Impairment loss recognised on the remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell 17 453 Profit loss before tax from discontinued operations 26 431 Income taxes: Related to current year profit loss before taxation current and deferred taxes 4 1 Related to the reversal of a provision recognised in previous years current tax 9 Related to remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell deferred tax 2 2 33 428 2,3 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 13 44 Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 20 472 Analysed as: MKM 33 12 Kazakhmys Petroleum 13 471 Kazakhmys Power 13 1 At 31 December 2012, the carrying value of MKM has been written down to its fair value less costs to sell with the result that an impairment charge of $17 million has been recognised in the year.
The positive financial performance of MKM resulted in an increase in its carrying value during the year, which exceeded its fair value less costs to sell as previously recorded.
The carrying values of MKM and Kazakhmys Petroleum were written down to their fair values less costs to sell at 31 December 2011, with the result that impairment charges of $9 million and $444 million, respectively, were recognised in the year.
2 In the year ended 31 December 2012, negotiations over the completion adjustment in respect of Kazakhmys Petroleum were concluded.
As a result of these negotiations, the completion adjustment has been revised downwards resulting in the reduction of the consideration receivable by $13 million.
3 The loss on disposal of subsidiaries in the year ended 31 December 2011 relates to the sale of Kazakhmys Petroleum see note 36 b and the Maikuben West coal mine see note 36 c. www.
com 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 37.
Discontinued operations and assets held-for-sale continued As the Maikuben West coal mine and Kazakhmys Petroleum were sold prior to 31 December 2011, assets classified as held for sale and liabilities directly associated with those assets at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 relate solely to MKM.
The balance sheets of the discontinued operation are shown below: $ million 2012 2011 Assets Property, plant and equipment 23 14 Inventories 107 95 Trade and other receivables 117 114 Cash and cash equivalents 4 9 Assets classified as held for sale 251 232 Liabilities Borrowings 125 121 Employee benefits and provisions 6 6 Trade and other payables 25 18 Income taxes payable 2 9 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 158 154 Net assets directly associated with the disposal group 93 78 Intercompany dividend payable 13 Net assets directly associated with the disposal group including intercompany dividend payable 80 78 Net cash flows from discontinued operations included within the consolidated cash flow statement are shown below: $ million 2012 2011 Operating activities 23 105 Investing activities 11 51 Financing activities 17 82 Net cash outflow 5 28 38.
Share-based payment plans The Companys share-based payment plans consist of a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and an Executive Share Option Plan ESOP.
The Group also has a smaller scheme, the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP, which at 31 December 2012 had 222,142 awards outstanding 2011: 110,758 with 42,735 being exercisable at the year end 2011: 28,130.
The total expense for the year ended 31 December 2012 arising from these plans was $6 million 2011: $4 million.
These plans are discretionary benefits offered by the Company for the benefit of its employees.
The main purpose is to increase the interest of the employees in Kazakhmys long-term business goals and performance through share ownership.
They represent incentives for employees future performance and commitment to be aligned to the goals of the Group.
The shares issued under these plans are dilutive ordinary shares.
During the year the Company purchased nil shares 2011: 270,000 at a cost of $nil 2011: $5 million through an Employee Benefit Trust.
For any future awards, the Company may issue new shares rather than purchase the shares in the open market through the Employee Benefit Trust.
The fair value of the shares under the LTIP and the ESOP are estimated at the grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the shares were granted.
This model simulates the TSR and compares it against the group of comparator companies.
It takes into account historic dividends and share price fluctuations to predict the distribution of relative share performance.
146 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements The following table lists the inputs to the Monte Carlo simulation model of the LTIP and ESOP: 2012 2011 2010 2010 Shares granted with a 38 Shares granted Shares granted Shares granted month with a 38 month with a 3 year with a 3 year vesting period vesting period vesting period vesting period April 2012 April 2011 May 2010 April 2010 Number of awards 632,995 367,315 116,532 94,277 Fair value at grant date 5.08 9.89 7.86 11.15 Share price at grant date 8.87 14.14 12.01 15.80 Exercise price nil nil nil nil Expected volatility 57.5% 77.5% 84.3% 66.1% Expected weighted average life at 31 December 2.4 years 1.4 years 0.4 years 0.3 years The award over shares is not affected by the risk free rate of interest since no investment is required by the recipient, and therefore no interest could be earned elsewhere.
On vesting of the award, the participants are entitled to cash equal to the value of dividends excluding the dividend tax credit that would have been paid on those shares between the grant date and the date of vesting.
Therefore, expected dividend yield does not affect the valuation of the awards and has been set at zero to achieve this effect.
Expected volatility is based on historic share price movements.
Details of these plans and the movements in the number of shares for the most significant share-based payment plans are detailed below: a Long Term Incentive Plan Under the LTIP, awards over shares are granted to senior management of the Group at nil cost.
The vesting of the shares is dependent on the total shareholder return TSR of the Group as compared to a group of listed comparator companies, as well as a requirement for the recipients of awards to remain in employment with the Group over the vesting period.
The following table shows the movements in the number of shares during the year: Number 2012 2011 Outstanding at 1 January 915,351 614,238 Granted on 6 April 2011 38 month vesting period 367,315 Granted on 4 April 2012 38 month vesting period 632,995 Exercised 58,002 Lapsed on 31 December 102,880 66,202 Outstanding at 31 December 1,387,464 915,351 Exercisable at 31 December 176,345 b Executive Share Option Plan The ESOP is an HMRC approved discretionary company share option plan that provides for the grant of market value options up to a value of 30,000 to executive Directors and certain selected UK-based senior executives.
The vesting of the options is dependent on the total shareholder return TSR of the Group as compared to a group of listed comparator companies, as well as a requirement for the recipients of options to remain in employment with the Company over the vesting period.
Options granted to the executive Directors and senior management under the ESOP will count towards the individual limits under the LTIP and will normally be subject to the same performance conditions as awards granted under the LTIP.
The following table shows the movements in the number of shares under option during the year: Number 2012 2011 Outstanding at 1 January 13,510 11,388 Granted on 6 April 2011 38 month vesting period 2,122 Outstanding at 31 December 13,510 13,510 Exercisable at 31 December www.
com 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 39.
Company financial statements a Company balance sheet $ million Notes 2012 2011 Assets Non-current assets Investments 39 e 6,480 6,369 Deferred tax asset 1 2 6,481 6,371 Current assets Prepayments and other current assets 2 2 Income taxes reclaimable 1 16 Intercompany loan 39 f 646 825 Trade and other receivables 39 g 14 4 Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 664 848 Total assets 7,145 7,219 Equity and liabilities Equity Share capital 26 a 200 200 Share premium 2,650 2,650 Capital reserves 39 i 771 769 Retained earnings 3,449 3,594 Total equity 7,070 7,213 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 39 j 4 6 Intercompany payables 39 m 71 Total liabilities 75 6 Total equity and liabilities 7,145 7,219 These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 25 March 2013.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Oleg Novachuk Chief Executive Officer Matthew Hird Chief Financial Officer 148 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements b Company statement of cash flows $ million Notes 2012 2011 Cash flows from operating activities Profit before taxation 51 524 Interest income 1 2 Share-based payments 38 6 4 Non-cash contribution to subsidiary for share-based payments 39 e 9 Impairment loss 39 e 63 Dividends received 100 600 Operating cash flows before changes in working capital 53 11 Decrease in prepayments and other current assets 1 Decrease in trade and other receivables 23 5 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 2 1 Increase in intercompany payables 71 Cash flows from operations before interest, income taxes and dividends received 39 4 Income taxes paid 7 4 Dividends received 100 600 Net cash inflow from operating activities 132 592 Cash flows from investing activities Capital contributions into subsidiary undertakings 39 e 2 68 Net cash flows used in investing activities 2 68 Cash flows from financing activities Purchase of own shares under the Groups share buy-back programme 88 78 Amounts repaid advances under intercompany loans 79 316 Dividends paid by the Company 14 121 129 Net cash flows used in financing activities 130 523 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 39 k 1 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 1 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 39 k 1 1 c Company statement of changes in equity Share Share Capital Retained Total 1 $ million Notes capital premium reserves earnings equity At 1 January 2011 200 2,648 774 3,265 6,887 Profit for the year 532 532 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income for the year 532 532 Acquisition of non-controlling interest in subsidiary 26 a 2 2 Share-based payment 38 4 4 Own shares purchased by the employee benefit trust 5 5 Own shares acquired under the share buy-back programme 78 78 Dividends paid 14 129 129 At 31 December 2011 200 2,650 769 3,594 7,213 Profit for the year 58 58 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income for the year 58 58 Share-based payment 38 6 6 Employee share awards exercised 2 2 Own shares acquired under the share buy-back programme 88 88 Dividends paid 14 121 121 At 31 December 2012 200 2,650 771 3,449 7,070 1 Refer to note 39 i for an analysis of Capital reserves.
d Company accounting policies Basis of preparation The Kazakhmys PLC parent company balance sheet, statement of cash flows and related notes have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial information has been prepared on a historical cost basis.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The functional currency of the Company and the presentational currency adopted is US dollars.
com 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 39.
Company financial statements continued Principal accounting policies The principal accounting policies are consistent with those applied in the consolidated financial statements refer to notes 2 and 3 except for the additional accounting policy relating to non-current investments set out below.
There were no changes to the accounting policies during the year.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs as adopted by the EU requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, following implementation of these standards, actual results may differ from those estimates.
Non-current investments Non-current investments are held at cost.
The Company assesses investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an investment may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the Company makes an estimate of its recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an investment exceeds its recoverable amount, the investment is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
e Company non-current investments $ million 2012 2011 Cost At 1 January 7,462 7,311 Additions 111 151 At 31 December 7,573 7,462 Provision for impairment At 1 January 1,093 1,030 Charged to the income statement 63 At 31 December 1,093 1,093 Net book value 6,480 6,369 i Kazakhmys LLC The Companys investment in Kazakhmys LLC is held via an intermediate holding company.
During 2012, the Company issued 2,219 ordinary shares of 20 pence each and paid $2 million in consideration for the transfer of 7,160,730 units in Kazakhmys LLC from non-controlling shareholders.
Following this transaction, the Companys indirect interest held in Kazakhmys LLC via an intermediate holding company increased from 99.88% at 31 December 2011 to 99.90% at 31 December 2012.
Following this transaction, the Companys indirect interest held in Kazakhmys LLC via an intermediate holding company increased from 99.73% at 1 January 2011 to 99.88% at 31 December 2011. ii ENRC The Company, via an intermediate holding company, holds 334,824,860 shares in ENRC representing 26.0% of the issued share capital 2011: 334,824,860 shares.
iii Kazakhmys Services Limited In 2012, an additional investment of $9 million relating to capital contributions made by the Company to Kazakhmys Services Limited was recognised in respect of the share awards issued by the Company on behalf of employees of Kazakhmys Services Limited.
At 31 December 2011, the Company waived the intercompany trade receivable due from Kazakhmys Services Limited in order to provide financial support to Kazakhmys Services Limited as a capital contribution.
As a result, the outstanding amount of $141 million as at 31 December 2011 was capitalised to the cost of the Companys investment in Kazakhmys Services Limited.
Following the capitalisation of this amount, an impairment review was performed which resulted in an impairment charge being recognised in the Companys income statement of $63 million to reduce the carrying amount of the investment in Kazakhmys Services Limited to its recoverable amount.
iv Kazakhmys Finance PLC During the year, the Company waived $100 million of the intercompany loan receivable due from Kazakhmys Finance PLC in order to provide financial support to Kazakhmys Finance PLC as a capital contribution.
As a result, $100 million was capitalised to the cost of the Companys investment in Kazakhmys Finance PLC.
v Other companies The Company holds its interests in other subsidiaries in the Group either directly for United Kingdom registered subsidiaries or via intermediate holding companies for those businesses in Central Asia and Germany.
f Company intercompany loan The intercompany loan receivable of $646 million is due from Kazakhmys Finance PLC 2011: $825 million, following the loan waiver discussed above, which has been advanced by the Company for general corporate purposes.
This balance is repayable on demand and accrues interest at US$ LIBOR minus 10 bps.
As at 31 December 2012, interest receivable of $3 million 2011: $2 million had accrued on this loan balance and is included within intercompany receivables note 39 g. 150 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements g Company trade and other receivables $ million 2012 2011 Intercompany receivables 3 2 Group tax relief receivables 11 2 14 4 Group tax relief is due from Kazakhmys Sales Limited of $11 million 2011: $2 million as all UK Group companies are considered part of a tax group for corporation tax purposes.
The Company is in a loss-making position for tax purposes and therefore in a net receivable position.
i Company capital reserves Capital Capital redemption Treasury 1 $ million reserve reserve shares Total At 1 January 2011 779 6 11 774 Own shares purchased by the Employee Benefit Trust 5 5 At 31 December 2011 779 6 16 769 Own shares issued upon exercise of options 2 2 At 31 December 2012 779 6 14 771 1 During the year, in accordance with the Companys policy on treating shares purchased in the Company by the Employee Benefit Trust as own shares within equity, the Company has created a new reserve for these shares.
Consequently, the cost of these shares previously treated as a loan advanced to the Employee Benefit Trust has been reclassified to the treasury shares reserve within equity.
i Capital reserve The capital reserve is a non-distributable reserve created when the shares issued pursuant to the share exchange agreements prior to the Companys listing were recorded at fair value.
To the extent the Company receives dividends from Kazakhmys LLCs profits created in the period prior to the share exchange, the capital reserve is realised through a transfer to distributable retained earnings.
ii Capital redemption reserve As a result of the share buy-back programme undertaken in 2008, transfers were made from share capital to the capital redemption reserve based on the nominal value of the shares cancelled.
iii Treasury shares The treasury shares reserve represents the cost of the Companys shares purchased by the Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy the share options awarded under the Companys share-based payment schemes.
j Company trade and other payables $ million 2012 2011 Salaries and related payables 3 6 Other payables and accrued expenses 1 4 6 k Company movement in net liquid funds At At 1 January 31 December $ million 2012 Cash flow 2012 Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 Borrowings Net liquid funds 1 1 At At 1 January 31 December $ million 2011 Cash flow 2011 Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 Borrowings Net liquid funds 1 1 www.
com 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 39.
Company financial statements continued l Company financial risk management The Company, as a holding company, has limited exposure to foreign exchange, credit and interest rate risks and these are shown below.
The Company has no exposure to commodity, liquidity or price risks.
i Foreign exchange risk The Company has transactional currency exposures principally arising from transactions relating to corporate costs which are denominated in currencies other than the Companys functional currency being the US dollar.
Corporate costs are primarily denominated in UK sterling.
The Company generally does not enter into hedging positions in respect of its exposure to foreign currency risk.
ii Credit risk Credit risk for the Company relates to cash and cash equivalents.
Balances within intercompany loans and trade and other receivables mostly relate to amounts owed by Group undertakings resulting in reduced credit risk for these balances.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December was: $ million 2012 2011 Intercompany loans 646 825 Trade and other receivables 14 4 Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 661 830 The exposure to credit risk for intercompany loans and trade and other receivables at 31 December 2012 and 2011 by geographic areas was all European.
iii Interest rate risk The Company has limited balances subject to interest rate risk.
The exposure of the Companys financial assets and liabilities to interest rate risk is as follows: At 31 December 2012 Floating Non-interest $ million rate Fixed rate bearing Total Financial assets Intercompany loans 646 646 Trade and other receivables 14 14 Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 Total financial assets 647 14 661 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 4 4 Intercompany payables 71 71 Total financial liabilities 75 75 At 31 December 2011 Non-interest $ million Floating rate Fixed rate bearing Total Financial assets Intercompany loans 825 825 Trade and other receivables 4 4 Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 Total financial assets 826 4 830 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 6 6 Total financial liabilities 6 6 All the Companys interest bearing monetary assets are denominated in US dollars and have a maturity of less than one year.
152 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information Financial Statements: Notes to the consolidated financial statements iv Fair value of financial assets and liabilities Set out below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Companys financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements: 2012 2011 Carrying Carrying $ million value Fair value value Fair value Intercompany loans 646 646 825 825 Trade and other receivables 14 14 4 4 Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 1 1 Trade and other payables 4 4 6 6 Intercompany payables 71 71 586 586 824 824 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and intercompany loans and payables approximate to their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
v Capital management The over-riding objectives of the Companys capital management policy are to safeguard and support the business as a going concern through the commodity cycle, to maximise returns to shareholders either through dividends or share buy-backs and benefits to other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure in order to reduce the Companys cost of capital see note 33 i. m Company related party disclosures i Transactions with related parties The total amount of transactions which have been entered into with related parties was interest received from Kazakhmys Finance PLC of $1 million 2011: $2 million.
The amounts outstanding from subsidiary companies are provided in notes 39 f and 39 g. The intercompany payables amount of $71 million is due to Kazakhmys Services Limited for services provided on behalf of the Company during the year under a management service agreement.
The balance is payable on demand and is interest free.
As explained in note 39 e, in 2011 the Company waived its right to receive repayment of the outstanding intercompany trade receivable balance of $141 million due from Kazakhmys Services Limited and in 2012 the Company waived its right to receive repayment of $100 million of the outstanding intercompany loan receivable due from Kazakhmys Finance PLC.
The Company received dividends of $100 million from Kazakhmys Sales Limited 2011: $100 million and $nil from Kazakhmys Investments Limited 2011: $500 million during the year.
An additional investment of $9 million relating to capital contributions was made to Kazakhmys Services Limited during 2012 see note 39 e. The Government became a related party on 24 July 2008.
Transactions involving the Government are explained in note 35. ii Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Prices for related party transactions are determined by the parties on an ongoing basis depending on the nature of the transaction.
com 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2012 39.
Company financial statements continued n Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and the principal subsidiaries listed in the following table: Equity Equity interest at interest at 31 December 31 December Principal Operating Country of 2012 2011 activity division incorporation % % 1 1 Kazakhmys Corporation LLC Copper mining Kazakhmys Mining Kazakhstan 99.9 99.9 and concentrating 1 Kazakhmys Smelting LLC Copper refining and smelting Kazakhmys Mining Kazakhstan 100.0 1 1 Kazakhmys Aktogay LLP Copper mine development Kazakhmys Mining Kazakhstan 100.0 100.0 1 1 Kazakhmys Bozshakol LLP Copper mine development Kazakhmys Mining Kazakhstan 100.0 100.0 1 1 Kazakhmys Projects BV Project development company Kazakhmys Mining Kazakhstan 100.0 100.0 1 Kazakhmys Energy LLP Electricity generation Kazakhmys Power Kazakhstan 100.0 Kazakhmys Sales Limited Sales and logistics Kazakhmys Mining United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 1 1 Dank LLP Gold mining and processing Kazakhmys Mining Kazakhstan 100.0 100.0 1 1 Andas Altyn LLP Gold mining and processing Kazakhmys Mining Kazakhstan 100.0 100.0 1 1 Kazakhmys Gold Kyrgyzstan LLP Copper gold Kazakhmys Mining Kyrgyzstan 100.0 100.0 mine development Kazakhmys Finance PLC Group financing N A United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Kazakhmys Services Limited Management and services N A United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 company Kazakhmys Investments Limited Holding company N A United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 1 1 MKM Mansfelder Kupfer und Copper fabrication MKM Germany 100.0 100.0 2 Messing GmbH 1 Indirectly held by the Company.
2 Classified as held for sale see note 37 a. o Guarantees The Company is the guarantor for the following: as explained in note 27, the Company, together with Kazakhmys LLC and Kazakhmys Sales Limited, is a guarantor of the $1.0 billion pre-export finance debt facility signed in December 2012: as explained in note 27, the Company is the guarantor of the loan facilities signed between Kazakhmys Finance PLC and Samruk-Kazyna under the CDB Samruk-Kazyna financing line.
As at 31 December 2012, Kazakhmys Finance PLC had signed loan facilities amounting to $2.7 billion and had drawn down $2.5 billion under them: as explained in note 27, the Company is also party to a several but not joint guarantee to the CDB under the loan facilities between CDB and Samruk-Kazyna which is capped at $1.7 billion of principal plus 85% of any interest and other duly payable costs and expenses.
A right of set-off exists under the loan facilities between Samruk-Kazyna and Kazakhmys Finance PLC in the event of any payment being made by the Company to the CDB under this guarantee: as explained in note 27, the Company is a guarantor of the $1.5 billion finance facility for the Aktogay project signed in December 2011 with the CDB: and the operating lease on the Companys head office in London.
Events after the balance sheet date a Post year-end dividend The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012 of 8.0 US cents per share.
Subject to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 May 2013, this dividend shall be paid on 21 May 2013. b Revolving credit facilities On 8 March 2013, Kazakhmys Finance PLC signed an agreement to extend the $100 million revolving credit facility see note 27 a for an additional two year term to March 2015.
154 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012
