Mining reserves and resources Year ended 31 December 2012 Reserves and resources estimation methods Kazakhmys Mining The Republic of Kazakhstan inherited the classification system and estimation methods for minerals established by the Former Soviet Union FSU.
Updated Regulations for the Classification of Non-ferrous Metals Reserves became law in Kazakhstan in 2006.
In practice, this means that the statements of reserves and resources developed by Kazakhmys and the mining plans to which they relate must be submitted for approval to the corresponding committees of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies for which adherence to the standardised national system of reserves and resources estimation is mandatory.
As part of the exploitation licence for each mineral deposit, a set of Conditions for Estimation of Reserves are prepared by a Kazakhstan licensed design institute and submitted for approval by the State.
The Conditions apply a well-defined process of classifying the specific deposit into one of three deposit categories, subject to which, the principles for exploration and classification of reserves and resources have been established.
The Conditions for Estimation of Reserves for each deposit specify the minimum thickness for exploitation of the ore body and cut-off grades, plus special considerations which may apply where the conditions for mineral extraction are exceptional or present difficulties.
Reserves and resources have traditionally been estimated by Kazakhmys according to the FSUs Classification and Estimation Methods for Reserves.
It is apparent that there is a growing trend towards greater flexibility and discussion with state authorities with respect to resource estimation methods.
This has been reflected in the increased use of computers and associated software by Kazakhmys in maintaining records about reserves at the operating mines and using databases linked to modelling software to assist in exploration and preliminary resource estimation.
IMC recognises this as an important step to achieve verifiable and internally consistent estimates.
IMC has reviewed the reserves statements of Kazakhmys and has restated them in accordance with the criteria required to meet JORC standards.
Guidelines on the Alignment of Russian minerals reporting standards and the CRIRSCO Template were published during 2010 as a joint initiative of the Committee for Mineral Reserves International Reporting Standards CRIRSCO and the Russian Federal Government Agency State Commission on Mineral Reserves.
The guidelines have been used to align categories of reserves C2, C1, B and A with appropriate Mineral Resource categories Measured, Indicated and Inferred.
The role of the JORC Competent Person, however, remains as being responsible for any estimate that is reported.
Mineral Resources, by definition, must have reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
In general, therefore, the total active balance resource, where no unresolvable problems are foreseen, is considered as the total Indicated and Measured Mineral Resource at a mine.
At the mature Zhezkazgan mines, the amount of commercial reserves that have been fully developed for extraction is equated to the Proved Ore Reserve inclusive of loss and dilution factors.
The Measured Mineral Resource which corresponds to the Proved Ore Reserve can be derived, as can the Indicated Mineral Resource and Probable Ore Reserve components.
Silver grades for the Zhezkazgan mines are stated for the total Mineral Resource as the accuracy of the estimate is not as precise as for copper.
The silver grade value is considered to be appropriate to an Indicated Resource level of confidence but is applied to Measured Resource categories for the sake of presenting average values for silver across the Company.
Similarly, the by-product gold and silver grades for Bozshakol are only considered to be estimated to an Inferred Resource level of accuracy.
Generally, at Kazakhmys mines other than at Zhezkazgan, the active balance reserve is divided into respective categories and the total of C1 plus A and B categories are assigned to Measured Mineral Resource and C2 category is assigned to Indicated Mineral Resource.
Conversion of Measured Mineral Resource to Proved Ore Reserve and Indicated Mineral Resource to Probable Ore Reserve is made by the application of appropriate modifying factors for loss and dilution.
Another important consideration is the level of planning and legal approval for the exploitation of a particular reserve block.
For operating mines, Mineral Resources have been converted to Ore Reserves where the reserve block can be exploited from existing capital development shafts, declines, haulages etc, or where a feasibility study for the construction of new capital development has been completed.
The assessment of Inferred Resources for Kazakhmys is incomplete.
The mines do not keep records of prognosticated reserves, categories P1, P2 and P3, which may include material that could be considered equivalent to JORC category Inferred Resources.
Some Inferred Resources are shown in the tabulations where the competent person has deemed that the degree of confidence in the estimate is appropriate to that category.
The foregoing tabulations show new projects in addition to operating mines.
Projects, for the purpose of this report, were defined at the outset by Kazakhmys and include greenfield sites and brownfield sites near to existing mines.
New projects have to demonstrate that feasibility studies have been completed and that appropriate legal approvals have been granted before reserves can be included in the statement.
These estimates form the basis for the process of restatement of reserves in accordance with JORC compliant criteria.
All reserves quoted in the following tables are discounted for ore losses and dilution and refer to estimates of tonnes and contained metal grades at the point of delivery to the processing plant.
Resources are not discounted for losses and dilution and are inclusive of reserves.
All figures in reserves and resources are in dry metric tonnes and are dated 31 December 2012.
Kazakhmys Mining gold resources Following international convention, gold resources reported in this report are in situ estimates, while the reserves make due allowance for mining recovery and dilution, based on recent operational experience or assumptions made in feasibility studies.
Ore Reserves are contained within the Mineral Resources.
Reserves Resources Ore Loss Dilution.
2 Silver values for the Zhezkazgan Region are not available by blocks, only at the borehole level, and have been averaged over each operation by Kazakhmys LLC.
3 Mine extensions are included within the original ore body as part of operating mines.
No ore loss or dilution has been included.
3 Development projects relate to Aidarlay, Aktogay, Anissimov Klyuch, Bozshakol, Karagaily, Kosmurun, Mizek underground, Nikolayevsky North, Nurkazgan East, Sayak IV, Taskora, Zhaisan, Zhilandy and Zhomart phase II.
Itauz was also included as a development project in 2011, but since operations have now commenced it has been classified as an operating mine in 2012.
2 Gold equivalent ounces have been calculated based on the following prices: copper $6,000 2011: $5,500 per tonne, gold $1,300 2011: $1,000 per ounce and silver $22.00 2011: $16.00 per ounce.
3 There were no operating mines in 2012 2011: Mukur mine.
4 Development project relates to Bozymchak.
3 Operating mines consist of the Mizek and Mukur mines.
3 ncvar refers to net calorific value as received.
4 Consists of the Molodezhny and Kusheki coal mines which are part of the Central Region.
During 2012, a change to the way coal reserves are reported was adopted.
From 2012 coal reserves are shown exclusive of losses, whereas in the prior year coal reserves were reported inclusive of anticipated losses.
In 2012 coal reserves previously included as probable have been reclassified to proved reserves.
com 165 Mining reserves and resources continued Year ended 31 December 2012 Revision of reserves and resources statement to 31 December 2012 IMC Group Consulting Ltd IMC has undertaken a review of the reserve and resource estimates prepared by Kazakhmys PLC Kazakhmys or the Company, as the basis for the preparation of a statement of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources as at 31 December 2012.
Tabulations of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources, comparisons with the previous annual statement and short technical descriptions, are provided for Kazakhmys copper, coal and gold assets.
The annual review of reserves and resources carried out by IMC is predominantly focused each year on depletion through production, analysis of company plans, exploration and other changes affecting the reserves and resources.
The consideration of Mineral Resources is based on the JORC definition which says that a Mineral Resource is an occurrence of minerals in such form, quality and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
In converting Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves in accordance with the JORC code IMC has to consider a number of Modifying Factors and the code definition that, an Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses, which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
IMC do not consider it necessary to visit every operation each year for the purposes of verifying the requirements of the Modifying Factors.
A full due diligence of all the Companys mining and processing assets and development projects was conducted by IMC in 2010 and the results of the study formed the basis of a Competent Persons Report CPR which was used by the Company for their listing on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 2011.
The observations and conclusions made by IMC in the CPR are still considered to be largely relevant at the end of 2012, and any discrepancies from the 2010 benchmark were accommodated during discussion with the Companys technical head office team based in Astana, Kazakhstan.
The Statement of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources is restated in accordance with the criteria of the Australasian Code for Reporting Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves 2012, published by the Joint Ore Reserves Committee of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and collaborating institutions the JORC Code.
For the sake of clarity in this report, reference to JORC category Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource begin with a capital letter.
The uncapitalised reserve refers to the Kazakhstan use of the word which can, depending on the context, be synonymous with both the JORC terms Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource.
IMC is satisfied, from the audit undertaken, that the recently revised estimates of reserves and resources prepared by the Company, are in accordance with the classification system required by law in the Republic of Kazakhstan and that, correspondingly, the estimates have a consistent basis for expressing the degree of confidence for stating quantities of exploitable minerals at specific grades of metal content.
On the basis of the estimates supplied by the Company, IMC has applied the same technical criteria as utilised in the 2010 audit, for preparation of the restatement of ore reserves and mineral resources as at 31 December 2012, in accordance with the reporting criteria of the JORC Code.
Guidelines for the alignment of Russian minerals reporting standards and the JORC Code were published in 2010 and again these have been applied in the preparation of the Kazakhmys Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource Statement.
This is considered appropriate as all the mineral deposits currently being mined, or developed, by Kazakhmys were explored during the Soviet era and reserves approved during that era are still referenced.
The aim of the new guidelines is to provide a standard reporting terminology for use in disclosure of the assets of mining companies to stock markets.
David Smith CEng, MIMMM, BSC Hons Director, IMC Group Consulting Ltd 25 February 2013 IMC Group Consulting Ltd Icon Business Centre Lake View Drive Sherwood Park Nottingham NG15 0DT United Kingdom 166 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012
