Our Operations Our mining operations are divided into China three regions, based in the centre and east P ositioned of Kazakhstan.
We employ around 60,000 people and our revenue represents around 41% of global copper demand 2% of Kazakhstans GDP.
Kazakhstan is the for growth ninth largest country in the world and has enjoyed significant development over the past Europe 20 years, attracting substantial investment Kazakhmys is one of the largest towards its oil and resource industries.
Our 19% of global copper demand Kazakhstan is ideally located to serve the location in Kazakhstan gives us two largest copper markets in the world, several key advantages access to China and Europe.
Kazakhstan has direct rail the excellent natural resources of links to China and material travels to Europe, by rail and the Black Sea.
Each year around Kazakhstan, combined with reliable 80% of our production is contracted under logistics, utilities, an experienced annual off take agreements.
In 2012, 75% of workforce and other vital inputs.
our contracted volume went to China and the balance to Europe.
Bo B zshakol Russia Artemyev vs sky Ekibastuz YubileynoMolodezhny Nurkazgan GRES-1 Snegirikhinsky Orlovsky Kusheki Abyz Irtyshsky Akbastau Kosmurun Kazakhstan Aktog gay y North East West Konyrat Sayak Stepnoy South Zhomart China Shatyrkul Kyrgyzstan Bozymchak Growth projects Mid-sized projects Mid-sized projects and operating mines Trade routes Copper and other metals Coal mines Power 4 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report: Our Operations Detailed Information Financial Statements For more information see pages 12 Our Strategy 28 Operating Review Our major growth projects In 2012 we commenced development 300 kt 500 kt on-site at our Bozshakol project and we Current annual production Future output approved the development of Aktogay.
of nished These are both substantial, long-life, copper following open pit mines, with a highly competitive development operating cost.
The projects benefit of our two from easy access to utilities and can take growth projects.
advantage of our existing processing capability.
The projects are backed by $4.2 billion of long-term finance.
Bozshakol project Aktogay project Bozshakol, in northern Kazakhstan, is one of the largest Aktogay is a large open-cast mine in south eastern Kazakhstan, undeveloped copper deposits in the world.
approximately 250 km from the Kazakhstan-China border.
The ore body has significant similarities to Bozshakol, allowing us to There has been good construction progress in 2012, with site accelerate design and engineering work to maximise value.
preparation work and foundations nearing completion, and orders placed for all major mining and plant equipment.
The Aktogay ore body consists of an oxide deposit on top of a larger sulphide deposit, the latter containing some valuable The project has a capital cost in the region of $1.9 billion, and molybdenum which will be extracted as a by-product.
is being funded from a $2.7 billion nancing facility provided by the China Development Bank and Samruk-Kazyna.
The project has a capital cost of $2 billion, and is primarily Bozshakol will have a production life of over 40 years, with an being funded from a $1.5 billion nancing facility from the average output of 75 kt of copper in concentrate per annum, China Development Bank.
Aktogay will employ around although production will average 100 kt from 2015 to 2030.
3,000 people at peak construction activity, and around The ore also contains valuable gold by-product which will 1,500 people when operational.
result in a highly competitive operating cost.
Bozshakol will Construction will start in 2013 and production will start in employ around 1,500 people with a similar number involved 2016.
Production in the first 10 years will average 104 kt in the construction phase.
of copper in concentrate per annum.
To follow progress at the Bozshakol project visit: www.
com en operations bozshakol To follow progress at the Aktogay project visit: www.
com en operations aktogay Resources Resources 1,173 MT of 0.35% copper grade 1,719 MT of 0.33% copper grade Contained gold Contained molybdenum 5,255 koz 115 kt www.
