"Report of the Regulatory Auditors Independent Auditors' report to the Office of Communications ""Ofcom"", referred to as the ""Regulator"" and KCOM Group PLC We have audited the regulatory financial statements of KCOM Group PLC the ""Company"" for the year ended 31 March 2012, which comprise the current cost profit and loss account and the statement of current cost mean capital employed for each market and the related notes the ""Regulatory Accounts""."
These Regulatory Accounts have been prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation and accounting policies set out in the Statement of Accounting Policies.
Respective responsibilities of the Regulator, the Directors and the Auditors As explained more fully in the Directors' Statement of Responsibility set out on page 3 the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Regulatory Accounts and for their fair presentation in accordance with the basis of preparation and accounting policies.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Regulatory Accounts in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, except as stated in the 'Scope of the audit of the Regulatory Accounts' below, and having regard to the guidance contained in Audit 05 03 'Reporting to Regulators of Regulated Entities' issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board's Ethical Standards for Auditors.
"This report is made, on terms that have been agreed, solely to the Company and the Regulator in order to meet the requirements set out in the final statement and notification entitled ""The regulatory financial reporting obligations on BT and Kingston Communications"" published by Ofcom on 22 July 2004 ""the Obligations""."
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company and the Regulator those matters that we have agreed to state to them in our report, in order a to assist the Company to meet its obligation under the Obligations to procure such a report and b to facilitate the carrying out by the Regulator of its regulatory functions, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Regulator, for our audit work, for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the Regulatory Accounts An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Regulatory Accounts sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Regulatory Accounts are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company's circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Regulatory Accounts.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Regulatory Financial Statements to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Regulatory Accounts.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
However, we have not assessed whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company where these are laid down by the Obligations.
Where the Obligations do not give specific guidance on the accounting policies to be followed, our audit includes an assessment of whether the accounting policies adopted in respect of the transactions and balances required to be included in the Regulatory Accounts are consistent with those used in the preparation of the statutory financial statements of KCOM Group PLC.
Furthermore, as the nature, form and content of Regulatory Accounts are determined by the Regulator, we did not evaluate the overall adequacy of the presentation of the information, which would have been required if we were to express an audit opinion under Auditing Standards.
Many of the Company's revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are not directly identifiable with individual businesses, and the preparation of the Regulatory Accounts requires a significant number of apportionments.
The principal methods and bases of apportionment are described in the Description of Cost Accounting System and the Regulatory Accounts should be read in connection herewith.
"As explained on page 51 in the ""Basis of preparation"", in selecting appropriate attribution models employed in the production of the Regulatory Accounts, the Company has had to make certain estimates and exercise its judgement, having regard to the Description of Cost Accounting System, including cost causality and objectivity, in order to comply with the requirements of the Description of Cost Accounting System."
The company has informed Ofcom that attribution methods and non-financial data sources will be subject to ongoing review and, where deemed appropriate, improvement.
We have not considered the appropriateness of the methods of attribution adopted in preparing the Regulatory Accounts.
Page 4 Report of the Regulatory Auditors continued Opinion on Regulatory Accounts In our opinion the Regulatory Accounts: - fairly present, in accordance with the Description of Cost Accounting System dated 27th July 2012 and the accounting policies set out on pages 51 to 53, the results and capital employed by each of the markets for the year ended 31 March 2012: and - have been properly prepared in accordance with the Obligations and the accounting policies.
Basis of preparation Without modifying our opinion, we draw attention to the Statement of Accounting Policies which describes the basis of preparation of the Regulatory Accounts.
"The Regulatory Accounts are separate from the statutory financial statements of the Company and have not been prepared under the basis of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union ""IFRSs""."
Financial information other than that prepared on the basis of IFRSs does not necessarily represent a true and fair view of the financial performance or financial position of a company as shown in statutory financial statements prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where, under the Obligations, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: - adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: - the Regulatory Accounts are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: - we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matters The nature, form and content of Regulatory Accounts are determined by the Regulator.
It is not appropriate for us to assess whether the nature of the information being reported upon is suitable or appropriate for the Regulator's purposes.
Accordingly we make no such assessment.
Our opinion on the Regulatory Accounts is separate from our opinion on the statutory financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2012 on which we reported on 31 May 2012, which are prepared for a different purpose.
"Our audit report in relation to the statutory financial statements of the Company our ""Statutory audit"" was made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006."
Our Statutory audit work was undertaken so that we might state to the Company's members those matters we are required to state to them in a statutory audit report and for no other purpose.
In these circumstances, to the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom our Statutory audit report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, Leeds 27th July 2012 Page 5 Rounding of Presented Numbers These statements incorporate numbers to decimal places which, when presented as whole digits within these statements, may not cast precisely to the totals.
In consequence the % variances refer to the underlying figure in and may differ from calculations performed using the visible integers.
