Notes to the Regulatory Financial Statements including accounting policies 1.
STATUTORY ACCOUNTS These Financial Statements, which are not statutory accounts within the meaning of the Companies Act 2006, have been prepared on the basis described in the Description of Cost Accounting System D0CAS dated 27th July 2012.
The statutory financial statements for KCOM Group plc and Kingston Communications Ltd for the year ended 31st March 2012 have been prepared, on which the auditors made unqualified reports.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Summarised below are the principal accounting policies which have been consistently applied throughout the current and prior financial year.
Basis of preparation The current cost financial statements on pages 7 to 63 are prepared under the financial capital maintenance concept, in line with the DoCAS dated 27th July 2012 and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
The current cost statements for each of the businesses are prepared under this basis, although an adjustment for inflation to ordinary shareholders' funds is not attributed to each of the individual businesses.
Current cost profit is derived firstly by arriving at historical cost profit loss in each of the businesses.
Then an adjustment is made for current cost depreciation, to result in current cost retained profit loss.
Finally, unrealised holding gains losses and realised holding gains losses are calculated to result in holding gains losses on fixed assets.
This calculation is added onto current cost retained profit loss, to result in amount retained.
In the current cost balance sheet, each Businesss assets are restated at their value to the Business, using their net current replacement cost.
Turnover Group turnover, which excludes value added tax, comprises the value of services provided and equipment sales by Group undertakings, excluding those between them.
The Group enters into contractual arrangements that include various components, which operate independently of each other.
Turnover is recognized in respect of the Groups right to consideration for each individual component where a reliable fair value can be attributed to these components.
Turnover from calls is recognised in the Group profit and loss account at the time the call is made over the Groups network.
Turnover from rentals is recognised evenly over the rental period.
Turnover from sales is recognised at the point of sale.
Turnover from production of directories is recognised at the point when the directory is published.
Turnover arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised evenly over the periods in which the service is provided to the customer.
Page 51 Notes to the Regulatory Financial Statements continued Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are recorded at current cost.
Depreciation is provided so as to write off the current cost of assets to residual values on a straight-line basis over the assets useful estimated lives as follows: - Freehold buildings - 40 years - Leasehold buildings and improvements - Period of lease - Exchange equipment - 10 years - External plant - 10 to 20 years - Vehicles, other apparatus and equipment - 3 to 10 years - Freehold land is not depreciated - Depreciation of network infrastructure and related equipment is provided for from the date the network comes into operation.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets, or where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
The residual value of the asset, if significant, is reassessed annually.
Stocks Stocks, stores and work-in-progress are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the First In, First Out FIFO method.
Cost includes raw materials and, where appropriate, direct overhead expenses.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
Page 52 Notes to the Regulatory Financial Statements continued Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at the contracted rate if the transaction is covered by a forward exchange contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date or, if appropriate, at the forward contract rate.
The exchange difference arising on the retranslation of opening net assets is taken directly to reserves.
All other translation differences are taken to the profit and loss account with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge against Group equity investments in foreign enterprises, which are taken directly to reserves together with the exchange difference on the net investment in these enterprises.
Leasing and hire purchase commitments Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, and hire purchase, are capitalised in the balance sheet and are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
The capital elements of future obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
The interest elements of the rental obligations are charged in the profit and loss account over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Pensions During the year the Company operated two primary pension schemes covering the pension arrangements of eligible employees.
One of these schemes operates on the defined contribution money purchase principle and for this scheme the pension cost charged represents the contributions payable.
The other scheme provides members with defined benefits based on final pensionable salary.
The overall long term costs of providing pensions for employees who are members of this scheme are charged against profits evenly over the expected working lives of the members.
The contributions are assessed in accordance with the advice of a qualified actuary based on actuarial valuations normally conducted every three years.
The relevant benefits promises are funded in advance and the assets of the schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds.
Employee share schemes The cost of award of shares, or share options, to employees is recognised as an operating expense over the period of the employees performance which relates to the award.
The cost of award is calculated based on the difference between the share or option exercise price and the market value of the shares at the date of grant of the award.
In the case of the Companys performance related schemes, the cost is based on actual performance to date relative to the performance targets dictated under the rules of the relevant scheme.
Where the Company purchases shares to settle a particular award of share options the cost is limited to the price of the shares purchased.
To the extent an amount greater than the pro-rated purchase price of such shares has been expensed prior to the date of the purchase then the excess expense is credited to the profit and loss account in the period of the purchase.
INTER BUSINESS BALANCES The Balance Sheet statements for the Businesses include balances relating to the charges from the Wholesale business to the Retail business, based on the Days Sales Outstanding DSO with Other Licenced Operators OLOs in 2011 12.
Charges by the Wholesale Business to the Retail Business and Other Licenced Operators OLOs are made on the basis of achieving a targeted rate of return on Mean Capital Employed of 13%.
CORPORATE CENTRE COSTS Included in the operating costs of the Businesses are 1,679k of recharged KCOM Group plc Corporate costs.
