OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 51 Role The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing and setting theremuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive Directors and seniormanagement.
The Committees objective is the provision of a remunerationpackage to attract, motivate and retain executive directors andsenior management.
Members of the Remuneration Committee Brendan Lyons Chairman Hans Kraus David Beldotti Main Responsibilities t Determining and agreeing the level and structure of remuneration for Executive Directors and members of the Management Executive Committee MEC.
t Determining the framework or broad policy for the remuneration for the MEC.
t Agreeing the remuneration for all Executive Directors and the Chairman, including the terms of service, employment contracts and share-based schemes.
t Overseeing and monitoring other employee incentive schemes adopted by the Group from time to time including pension arrangements.
A copy of the Committees terms of reference can be found on the Companys website.
Since our listing on the London Stock Exchange we have continued to review our executive remuneration policy.
We have sought to balance any differing priorities of best practice as dened by UK institutional investors, with the need to offer Brendan Lyons attractive remuneration packages to Executive Directors and senior management Chairman, Remuneration Committee working in different and varied talent markets.
Kentz has worked to ensure compliance with the reporting required of a non-UK registered company.
During 2012 the Remuneration Committee has sought to balance these considerations with our legacy and evolving executive remuneration arrangements.
We recognise that the regulatory landscape in the UK is evolving, and the Committee continually reviews the changing environment and what this means for the Company.
We will continue to monitor and review our executive remuneration in light of any changes that impact upon the Company.
The Committee met five times during 2012 and the attendance record of individual Committee members is shown on page 44 of the AnnualReport.
The main items considered by the Committee during 2012 were: t Contract of employment for incoming Chief Executive officer.
t Consultancy agreement for outgoing Chief Executive officer.
t Proposed changes to the Long Term Incentive Plan.
t Approval of Remuneration Committee report for 2011 Annual Report.
t Annual review of the Terms of Reference of the Committee.
t Review of the 2009 Employee Share Option Scheme.
t Selection and approval of an independent remuneration consultant.
t Review of short and long-term incentives award proposals for 2012.
Advice to the Remuneration Committee Following a competitive tender in 2012 the Remuneration Committee appointed Towers Watson to advise on executive remuneration.
Towers Watson has no other relationship with Kentz Corporation Limited and the Committee is satisfied that they are able to provide independent and impartial advice.
Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group which oversees a voluntary code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting.
The Committee also receives advice from Simmons & Simmons in respect of the operation of the Groups share plans.
The Committee also received advice and input from management.
No executive was involved in discussions relating to their own remuneration.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Kentz Corporation Limited
