52 REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED Executive reward policy In determining the remuneration policy for the Companys executives, the Remuneration Committee considers the external competitive environment, taking into account the Companys short and medium term strategic objectives, as well as shareholder interests and views on good company practice.
The Committee seeks to deliver an appropriately balanced executive remuneration policy that provides xed pay as well as both annual and longer term variable pay.
The Committee reviewed executive remuneration policy and determined upon the following changes effective for the 2013 financial year: t A re-balancing of the package to reect both US and UK market norms: in effect this has meant an increase in the base salary of the Chief Executive officer, but with a commensurate reduction in annual bonus opportunity.
t Increasing the performance-related element of equity awards for Executive Directors for awards made in 2013.
50% of awards made in 2013 will be contingent on the satisfaction of performance conditions, compared to the current weight of 30%.
t The introduction of a second performance measure alongside the current measure relating to earnings per share EPS in the form of a return on equity ROE test.
The Committee has also reviewed and amended the basis upon which the EPS test will operate for awards made in 2013.
It is the Committees intention to continue to review executive remuneration policy over 2013 and move to a position where overall packages and levels of disclosure are aligned with those required of UK-listed and registered companies.
Executive Directors receive compensation which comprises base salary and benets, short-term cash incentives to drive annual financial performance, and long-term incentives comprising equity awards vesting after a three year period with the aim of driving long-term shareholder value.
Component Purpose Policy Base salary Attraction and retention: reects complexity Role and responsibilities, aligned with ofthe role marketmedian Fixed Benets and pension Attraction and retention Aligned with market standard, role and geographical location Cash bonus Short-term incentives to meet Achievement of financial performance targets performancetargets and personal objectives Variable Long term incentive plan Long-term incentives to help build and deliver Combination of  and increased shareholder value: provide retention time contingent awards effect for Executive Directors Base package Base packages reect the Remuneration Committees assessment of the appropriate level of base salary for each executive position.
TheCommittee takes broad account of competitive pay levels in the industry, as well as an individuals performance, level of responsibility, criticality and value to the business.
Salaries are set at a level that allows the Company to attract and retain the very best talent.
As noted earlier, the Committee reviewed the level and structure of the Chief Executive Ofcers pay during 2012 as well as the likely future direction for 2014 and beyond.
As a result, the Committee determined that the proportion of the Chief Executive Ofcers potential remuneration that could be delivered through variable pay should be curbed, but with a commensurate increase in xed pay.
The Committee is conducting a similar review of the Chief Financial Ofcers remuneration.
The base salaries effective 1 January 2013 for each of the Executive Directors are shownbelow.
2013 base 2012 base Name package package % Increase Christian Brown US$780,000 US$565,500 38% Ed Power US$362,227 US$346,477 5% Annual cash bonus The Remuneration Committee approves the level of annual bonuses paid to the Executive Directors.
The cash element of the annual bonus is split into two parts: 80% to be paid at the year-end, the remaining 20% to be paid following the approval of the full year results.
For 2013, 100% of the cash bonus will be paid post approval of the full year results.
For any bonus to be paid, a minimum level of Company performance must be achieved.
The payments to individual Executive Directors are shown in the Directors Emoluments table on page 55.
As part of the re-balancing exercise a portion of annual cash bonus will be replaced in part by Long-Term Incentive equity-based awards, thuscreating a structuring whereby Executive Director and senior managements remunerations are linked to the individuals and the Companys performance.
Kentz Corporation Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
