OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 Long-Term Incentives a Long Term Incentive Plan In 2011, the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP was introduced to provide senior executives with shares in lieu of cash bonus.
Under this scheme, the award was a mixture of contingent share awards 70% of face value and performance share awards 30% of the face value with a three-year vesting period.
During 2012, the scheme was amended to change the mix for future awards to 50% contingent share awards and 50% performance stock awards.
For the performance shares to vest in full for the awards made in 2012, Kentzs average basic earnings per share EPS growth must not be less than the average basic EPS growth for the same period for a peer group of designated industry competitors.
If the Kentz actual basic EPS growth is more than 90% but less than 100% of the industry competitors performance, a pro-rated award value will be made.
No vesting of performance share will be made if Kentzs basic EPS growth is less than 90% of the industry competitors average EPS growth.
For awards made in 2013: 25% of the initial face value of the award will be linked to the satisfaction of a revised EPS test.
25% of this portion of the award will vest if the average compound EPS growth over three years is equivalent to the median growth in a basket of 10 international peers.
Full vesting will occur for performance equal to, or in excess of the upper quartile with performance between these points vesting on a straight line basis.
25% of the initial face value of the award will be linked to the satisfaction of internal return on equity goals.
25% of this portion of the award will vest for three year average return on equity of 25% rising to full vesting for average return on equity of 30%.
Straight line vesting will occur between these points.
Under both measures no vesting will occur for performance below the stated threshold.
Material inaccurate reporting or statements are regarded as a misconduct event and would result in all unvested long-term incentive awards lapsing immediately.
All long-term incentive equity awards, in the form of share options, performance or contingent share awards have a minimum three year vesting period consistent with the Code.
b Share option scheme The Company operates an equity-settled share-based remuneration scheme for key management.
No awards were made under this plan in 2012 to Executive Directors or other senior management.
Pensions Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the company pension scheme and the Company makes a contribution equal to a maximum of 10% of base salary in this respect.
Other benets The Companys policy is to provide Executive Directors with private medical insurance, life assurance and a company car allowance.
In addition, Executive Directors may be entitled to a housing allowance dependent upon their geographical location.
Shareholding The Executive Directors hold a number of shares in the Company and have interests in shares under share incentive arrangements at 31 December 2012 as shown below.
Christian Ed Shares held Brown Power Ordinary shares 1,018,936 Share options 127,000 Shares held under LTIP not vested 363,287 32,797 Ed Powers shares were previously held indirectly through Danache Holdings Limited.
During 2012, these shares were transferred from Danache Holdings Limited to an account in his own name.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Kentz Corporation Limited
