50 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED The Directors consider David MacFarlane has competence in accounting and auditing matters and has relevant financial experience over an extended period of time in international businesses.
David MacFarlane is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Scotland and has over 30 years of financial management experience from the oil and gas sector and has held a number of senior financial roles within theindustry.
Non-audit services The Audit Committee has put in place a policy relating to the provision of non-audit services by the Groups external auditors.
The award of non-audit services is subject to the Groups standard procurement procedures relating to the use of consultants.
The policy outlines: t The circumstances in which the Chief Financial officer CFO may engage the external auditors to provide non-audit services without the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
t The circumstances in which the CFO must obtain prior approval from the Audit Committee to engage the external auditors to provide non-audit services.
t The services that are prohibited from being performed by the external auditors.
Since appointed as external auditors in June 2012,  have provided advice to some of the African subsidiaries on taxation matters.
The amount of the fees, which are deemed immaterial are included in note 5 to the financial statements.
Rotation of auditors While the Group does not consider it necessary to have a formal requirement for rotation of external auditors, it has taken guidance from The Code which states that all FTSE 350 Companies should put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
The Committee has introduced a policy under which every three years it will consider the appropriateness of putting the external audit out to tender and will inform the shareholders as to their decision.
The Group also has a policy on the rotation of audit partners.
This policy requires the lead partner to change after a maximum period of five years and all other partners including the review partner to rotate after a maximum period of seven years.
Internal Audit Internal Audit and compliance monitoring work is carried out by the Group Internal Audit Manager and Group Compliance officer, supported by independent specialist consultants as required.
The Group Internal Audit Manager reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and works closely with the Chief Financial officer to ensure direct and transparent communication around all internal audit activity.
The Internal Audit Managers role includes providing the Board with appropriate reports to assist them in their annual review of the Groups internal control systems.
He is responsible for reviewing specic areas of the Groups operations in line with an annual plan, which is agreed with the Audit Committee annually.
Kentz Corporation Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
