52 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 ACCOUNTS NO TES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 GENERAL INFORMATION At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Kingsher plc the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and new standards, amendments and interpretations, which have not been associates together the Group supply home improvement products applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective and services through a network of retail stores and other channels, and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : located mainly in the United Kingdom, continental Europe and China.
IFRS 1 amended, Severe hyperination and removal of xed dates for first-time adopters effective from 1 July 2011 : Kingsher plc is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out IFRS 7 amended, Disclosures Transfers of financial assets in the Business Review on pages 1 to 20. effective from 1 July 2011 : IFRS 9, Financial instruments effective from 1 January 2015 : The address of its registered ofce is 3 Sheldon Square, Paddington, London W2 6PX.
IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements effective from 1January 2013 : The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
IFRS 11, Joint arrangements effective from 1 January 2013 : These consolidated financial statements have been approved for issue IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities effective from by the Board of Directors on 21 March 2012.
1January 2013 : 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES IFRS 13, Fair value measurement effective from 1 January 2013 : The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these IAS 1 amended, Presentation of items of other comprehensive consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have income effective from 1 July 2012 : been consistently applied to the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
IAS 12 amended, Deferred tax: Recovery of underlying assets a.
Basis of preparation effective from 1 January 2012 : The consolidated financial statements of the Company, its subsidiaries, IAS 19 revised, Employee benets effective from 1 January 2013 : joint ventures and associates are made up to the nearest Saturday to 31January each year, except as disclosed in note 17 and in note 4 of IAS 27 revised, Separate financial statements effective from the Companys separate financial statements.
The current financial year 1January 2013 : is the 52 weeks ended 28 January 2012 the year.
The comparative IAS 28 revised, Investments in associates and joint ventures financial year is the 52 weeks ended 29 January 2011 the prior year.
effective from 1 January 2013 : and The directors of Kingsher plc, having made appropriate enquiries, IFRIC 20, Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine consider that adequate resources exist for the Group to continue in effective from 1 January 2013. operational existence for the foreseeable future and that, therefore, The directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 28 January 2012.
Group in future periods, except as follows: Refer to the Directors statement of responsibility on page 26.
IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance instruments: with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the IFRS 13 claries the measurement of fair value for certain assets European Union IFRS and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 and liabilities as well as the associated disclosures: and applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and therefore the consolidated financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS 19 revised will principally impact the measurement and IASlegislation.
presentation of dened benefit pension expense income and the disclosures for benetplans.
The most significant change is expected There are no new standards, amendments or interpretations, which to be the replacement of interest cost and expected return on scheme are mandatory for the first time for the financial year ended 28 January assets with a single net finance cost or return determined by applying 2012, that are relevant and material for the Group.
the same discount rate used to measure the dened benefit obligations The following amendments and interpretations, which are mandatory to the net dened benefit liability or asset.
The impact on net assets for the first time for the financial year ended 28 January 2012, are either is not expected to be material, but the impact on reported income not currently relevant or material for the Group: will depend on market interest rates, rates of return and the mix of IAS 24 revised, Related party disclosures: scheme assets at the time of adoption.
IAS 32 amendment, Classication of rights issues: Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed Improvements to IFRSs 2010: and review has been completed.
IFRIC 14 amendment, Prepayments of a minimum fundingrequirement.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 53 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under Net debt cash comprises borrowings and nancing derivatives the historical cost convention, as modied by the use of valuations excluding accrued interest, less cash and cash equivalents and current for certain financial instruments, share-based payments and post other investments.
A summary of the Groups principal accounting b.
Basis of consolidation policies is set out below.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires of the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
the use of certain accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also requires i Subsidiaries management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Subsidiary undertakings are all entities over which the Group has Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving critical accounting the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally estimates and judgements, which are significant to the consolidated accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
financial statements, are disclosed in note 3.
Subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period are recorded under Use of non-GAAP measures the acquisition method of accounting and their results included from the Kingsher believes that retail profit, adjusted pre-tax profit, effective tax date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries which have been disposed rate, adjusted post-tax profit and adjusted earnings per share provide of during the period are included up to the effective date of disposal.
additional useful information on underlying trends to shareholders.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is These and other non-GAAP measures such as net debt cash are the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the used by Kingsher for internal performance analysis and incentive equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred compensation arrangements for employees.
The terms retail profit, includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent exceptional items, adjusted, effective tax rate and net debt cash consideration arrangement.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed are not dened terms under IFRS and may therefore not be comparable as incurred.
Identiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
They are liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures.
their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an  Retail profit is dened as continuing operating profit before central basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree costs principally the costs of the Groups head ofce, exceptional either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share items, amortisation of acquisition intangibles and the Groups share of the acquirees net assets.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates.
amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent The separate reporting of non-recurring exceptional items, which changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to nonare presented as exceptional within their relevant income statement controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests category, helps provide an indication of the Groups underlying business having a deficit balance.
Prior to 31January 2010, losses exceeding performance.
The principal items which are included as exceptional the non-controlling interest in the equity of a subsidiary were required items are: to be attributed to the parent: the resulting deficit balances were not non-trading items included in operating profit such as profits and restated following amendment to IAS 27, Consolidated and separate losses on the disposal, closure or impairment of subsidiaries, joint nancialstatements.
ventures, associates and investments which do not form part of The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any nonthe Groups trading activities: controlling interests in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value profits and losses on the disposal of properties: and of any previous equity interests in the acquiree over the fair value of the the costs of significant restructuring and incremental acquisition identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If this is less integration costs.
than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in The term adjusted refers to the relevant measure being reported for the income statement.
continuing operations excluding exceptional items, nancing fair value remeasurements, amortisation of acquisition intangibles, related tax Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on items and prior year tax items.
Financing fair value remeasurements transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised represent changes in the fair value of nancing derivatives, excluding losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of interest accruals, offset by fair value adjustments to the carrying an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of acquired amount of borrowings and other hedged items under fair value hedge subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency relationships.
Financing derivatives are those that relate to underlying with the policies adopted by the Group.
The effective tax rate represents the effective income tax expense as a percentage of continuing profit before taxation excluding exceptional items.
Effective income tax expense is the continuing income tax expense excluding tax on exceptional items and tax adjustments in respect of prior years and changes in tax rates.
54 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 ACCOUNTS NO TES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the retranslation ii Joint ventures and associates of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control, with a currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are third party, to govern the financial and operating activities of that entity.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange The equity method is used to account for the Groups investments in differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the joint ventures.
Associates are entities over which the Group has the ability to exercise Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a significant inuence but not control, generally accompanying a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The equity and translated at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
method is used to account for the Groups investments in associates.
Principal rates of exchange against Sterling: Under the equity method investments are initially recognised at cost.
2011 12 2010 11 The Groups investments in joint ventures and associates include goodwill Average Year end Average Year end rate rate rate rate net of any accumulated impairment losses identied on acquisition.
Euro 1.15 1.19 1.17 1.16 The Groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised US Dollar 1.60 1.57 1.54 1.59 in the income statement within operating profit, and its share of postPolish Zloty 4.80 5.04 4.65 4.52 acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The Chinese Renminbi 10.31 9.94 10.41 10.45 cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses d. Revenue recognition equals or exceeds its interest, including any other long term receivables, Sales represent the supply of home improvement products and services.
the Group does not recognise any further losses, unless it has incurred Sales exclude transactions made between companies within the Group, obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
Value Added Tax, other sales-related taxes and are net of returns, trade and staff discounts.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups Sales of in-store products are generally recognised at the point of cash interest.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction receipt.
Where award credits such as vouchers or loyalty points are provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting provided as part of the sales transaction, the amount allocated to the policies of joint ventures and associates have been changed where credits is deferred and recognised when the credits are redeemed necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
and the Group fulls its obligations to supply the awards.
c. Foreign currencies Sales are also recognised when the product has been delivered or, i Presentation and functional currencies for installation income, when the service has been performed.
Sales The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which from delivered products and services represent only a small component is the Groups presentation currency.
Items included in the financial of the Groups sales as the majority relates to in-store purchases statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the of products.
currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity Other income is generally composed primarily of external rental income operates i. e. its functional currency.
and profits and losses on disposal of assets.
Rental income from ii Transactions and balances operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over the term Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the of the relevant lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and functional currency at the exchange rates prevailing on the date of the arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the transaction or, for practical reasons, at average monthly rates where leased asset and recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
exchange rates do not uctuate signicantly.
e. Rebates Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are Rebates received from suppliers mainly comprise volume related rebates translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet on the purchase of inventories.
Exchange differences on monetary items are taken to the income Volume related rebates are recognised based on actual purchases in the statement.
Exceptions to this are where the monetary items form part of period as a proportion of total purchases forecast over the rebate period the net investment in a foreign operation or are designated and effective where it is probable the rebates will be received and the amounts can net investment or cash ow hedges.
Such exchange differences are be estimated reliably.
Rebates relating to inventories purchased but still held at the balance iii Group companies sheet date are deducted from the carrying value so that the cost of The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are expressed inventories is recorded net of applicable rebates.
Such rebates are in Sterling at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
profits and credited to the income statement when the goods are sold.
losses of overseas subsidiary undertakings are expressed in Sterling at average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising on f. Dividends the retranslation of foreign operations are recognised in a separate Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid to the Companys component of equity.
Final dividends are recognised when they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 55 g. Intangible assets iii Impairment i Goodwill Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or Goodwill represents the future economic benets arising from assets changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be acquired in a business combination that are not individually identied recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable and separately recognised.
Such benets include future synergies amount is assessed by reference to the net present value of expected future expected from the combination and intangible assets not meeting pre-tax cash ows value-in-use of the relevant cash generating unit or fair the criteria for separate recognition.
value less costs to sell if higher.
The discount rate applied is based upon the Groups weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill the risks associated with the relevant cash generating unit.
Any impairment is not amortised and is tested annually for impairment by assessing the in value is charged to the income statement in the period in which it occurs.
recoverable amount of each cash generating unit or groups of cash generating units to which the goodwill relates.
The recoverable amount iv Disposal is assessed by reference to the net present value of expected future The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is pre-tax cash ows value-in-use or fair value less costs to sell if higher.
determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the The discount rate applied is based upon the Groups weighted average carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with Sales of land and buildings are accounted for when there is an the relevant cash generating unit or groups of cash generating units.
When the recoverable amount of the goodwill is less than its carrying v Subsequent costs amount, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income Subsequent costs are included in the related assets carrying amount or statement which cannot subsequently be reversed.
Gains and losses recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill that future economic benets associated with the item will ow to the relating to the entity sold.
Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other ii Computer software repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement in Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the the period in which they are incurred.
costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic software.
Leased assets costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives of two to ten years.
Where assets are nanced by leasing agreements which give rights Costs that are directly associated with the production of identiable approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they had been and unique software products controlled by the Group, which are purchased outright.
The amount capitalised is the lower of the fair value expected to generate economic benets exceeding costs beyond one or the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include software term at the inception of the lease.
The assets are depreciated over the development, employee and consultancy costs and an appropriate shorter of the lease term or their useful life.
Obligations relating to portion of relevant overheads.
Costs associated with identifying, sourcing, finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are evaluating or maintaining computer software are recognised as an included, as appropriate, under borrowings due within or after one year.
The finance charge element of rentals is charged to finance costs in the income statement over the lease term.
h. Property, plant and equipment i Cost All other leases are operating leases and the rental payments are Property, plant and equipment held for use in the business are carried at generally charged to the income statement in the period to which the cost less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment.
payments relate, except for those leases which incorporate xed minimum rental uplift clauses.
Leases which contain xed minimum ii Depreciation rental uplifts are charged to the income statement on a straight line Depreciation is provided to reect a straight line reduction from cost to basis over the lease term.
estimated residual value over the estimated useful life of the asset asfollows: Where a lease is taken out for land and buildings combined, the buildings element of the lease may be capitalised as a finance lease Freehold land not depreciated if it meets the criteria for a finance lease, but the land element will in Freehold and long leasehold over remaining useful life down most cases be classied as an operating lease.
If the contracted lease buildings toresidual value payments are not split between land and buildings in the lease contract, Short leasehold land and buildings over remaining period of the lease the split is made based on the market values of the land and buildings Fixtures and ttings between 4 and 20 years at the inception of the lease.
Computers and electronic equipment between 3 and 5 years Incentives received or paid to enter into lease agreements are released Motor cars 4 years to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Commercial vehicles between 3 and 10 years Long leaseholds are dened as those having remaining lease terms of more than 50 years.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
56 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 ACCOUNTS NO TES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and j.
Investment property changes in actuarial assumptions are credited or charged to the Investment property is property held by the Group to earn rental income statement of comprehensive income as they arise.
The Groups investment properties are carried Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, at cost less depreciation and provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided unless the changes to the pension scheme are conditional on the on a consistent basis with that applied to property, plant and equipment.
employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the k. Capitalisation of borrowing costs vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised Interest on borrowings to finance the construction of properties held on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
as non-current assets is capitalised from the date work starts on the For dened contribution schemes, the Group pays contributions to property to the date when substantially all the activities which are privately administered pension schemes on a contractual basis.
The necessary to get the property ready for use are complete.
Where Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have construction is completed in parts, each part is considered separately been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit when capitalising interest.
Interest is capitalised before any allowance expense when they are due.
ii Share-based compensation l. Inventories The Group operates several equity-settled, share-based compensation Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, on schemes.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange a weighted average cost basis.
for the grant of options or deferred shares is recognised as an expense Cost includes appropriate attributable overheads and direct expenditure and is calculated using Black-Scholes and stochastic models.
The total incurred in the normal course of business in bringing goods to their amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by present location and condition.
Costs of inventories include the transfer reference to the fair value of the options or deferred shares granted, from equity of any gains or losses on qualifying cash ow hedges relating excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions.
of the charge is adjusted to reect expected and actual levels of options vesting due to non-market vesting conditions.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
n. Taxation Write downs to net realisable value are made for slow moving, damaged The income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently or obsolete items and other events or conditions resulting in expected payable and deferred tax.
selling prices being lower than cost.
The carrying value of inventories The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
reects known and expected losses of product in the ordinary course Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the ofbusiness.
income statement because it excludes items of income or expense m. Employee benets which are taxable or deductible in other years or which are never i Post employment benets taxable or deductible.
The Group operates various dened benefit and dened contribution Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on pension schemes for its employees, some of which are required by differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in local legislation.
A dened benefit scheme is a pension scheme which the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the defines an amount of pension benefit which an employee will receive on computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance retirement.
A dened contribution scheme is a pension scheme under sheet liability method.
which the Group usually pays xed contributions into a separate entity.
In all cases other than some of the legally required schemes, a separate Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary fund is being accumulated to meet the accruing liabilities.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is of each of these funds are either held under trusts or managed by probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible insurance companies and are entirely separate from the Groups assets.
temporary differences or unused tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of initial recognition of goodwill in a business combination.
Deferred tax dened benefit pension schemes is the fair value of scheme assets less assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference the present value of the dened benefit obligation at the balance sheet arises from the initial recognition other than in a business combination date, together with an adjustment for any past service costs not yet of other assets and liabilities in a transaction which affects neither the recognised.
The dened benefit obligation is calculated annually by taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in present value of the dened benefit obligation is determined by subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except where the Group is discounting the estimated future cash outows using interest rates able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable of high quality corporate bonds which are denominated in the currency that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
in which the benets will be paid and which have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 57 Current and deferred tax are calculated using tax rates which have vi Derivatives and hedge accounting been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and Where hedge accounting is not applied, or to the extent to which it is not are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the effective, changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised in the asset is realised.
income statement as they arise.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives transacted as hedges of operating items and nancing items are Current and deferred tax are charged or credited to the income recognised in operating profit and net finance costs respectively.
statement, except when they relate to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the current or deferred tax is also recognised Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative directly in equity.
contract is entered into and are subsequently carried at fair value.
The accounting treatment of derivatives and other financial instruments Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against classied as hedges depends on their designation, which occurs at the each other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax start of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain financial jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets instruments as: and liabilities on a net basis.
a hedge of the fair value of an asset or liability or o.
Provisions unrecognised rm commitment fair value hedge : Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction or rm constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than commitment cash ow hedge : or not that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised investment hedge.
Fair value hedges If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the determined by discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk rate which reects current market assessments of the time value of being hedged with the corresponding entry being recorded in the money and, where appropriate, the risks specic to the liability.
Gains or losses from remeasuring the corresponding p. Financial instruments hedging instrument are recognised in the same line of the income Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups statement.
balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual Cash ow hedges provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when Changes in the effective portion of the fair value of derivatives that are the contractual rights to the cash ows from the financial asset expire designated as hedges of future cash ows are recognised directly in or the Group has substantially transferred the risks and rewards of equity, with any ineffective portion being recognised immediately in ownership.
Financial liabilities or a part of a financial liability are the income statement where relevant.
If the cash ow hedge of a rm derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition of a discharged or cancelled or expires.
non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time it is recognised, the i Cash and cash equivalents associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held on call recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the nonwith banks and other short term highly liquid investments with original financial asset or liability.
For hedges that result in the recognition of a maturities of three months or less.
financial asset or liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item ii Borrowings affects net profit or loss.
Interest bearing borrowings are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Net investment hedges Where borrowings are in designated and effective fair value hedge Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations through relationships, adjustments are made to their carrying amounts to reect foreign currency borrowings, the gains or losses on the retranslation the hedged risks.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on of the borrowings are recognised directly in equity.
If the Group uses settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are amortised to derivatives as the hedging instrument, the effective portion of the hedge the income statement using the effective interest method.
is recognised in equity, with any ineffective portion being recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated iii Other investments in equity are recycled through the income statement on disposal of Other investments include bank deposits, government bonds and other the foreign operation.
short term investments with original maturities of more than three months.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group documents in iv Trade receivables advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are hedging instrument.
The Group also documents and demonstrates subsequently measured at amortised cost less any provision for bad an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the and doubtful debts.
hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge has been and will v Trade payables be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
The effectiveness testing is Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently re-performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains measured at amortised cost.
58 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 ACCOUNTS NO TES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Inventories Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires As inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualies for hedge this requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of goods to accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging customers in the future.
A high degree of judgement is applied when instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the highly estimating the impact on the carrying value of inventories of factors probable forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no such as slow moving items, shrinkage, damage and obsolescence.
The longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised quantity, age and condition of inventories are regularly measured and in equity is transferred to the income statement.
assessed as part of range reviews and inventory counts undertaken throughout the year and across the Group.
Refer to note 18 for Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host furtherinformation.
contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, and Income taxes the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions and or losses reported in the income statement.
there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
significant judgement 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS may therefore be required in determining the provision for income taxes The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS in each territory.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
the application of policies and reported amounts.
Estimates and Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical which were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income experience and other factors including expectations of future events that tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
These adjustments in respect of prior years are recorded in the may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and assumptions which income statement or directly in equity as appropriate.
Refer to notes 9 have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying and 25 for further information.
amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are Restructuring provisions discussed below.
The Group carries a number of provisions in relation to historical and Impairment of goodwill and other assets ongoing restructuring programmes.
The most significant part of the As required, the Group applies procedures to ensure that its assets are provisions is the cost to exit stores and property contracts.
The ultimate carried at no more than their recoverable amount.
The procedures, by costs and timing of cash ows are dependent on exiting the property their nature, require estimates and assumptions to be made.
The most lease contracts on the closed stores and subletting surplus space.
significant are set out below.
Refer to note 26 for further information.
The Group is required, on at least an annual basis, to test whether Post employment benets goodwill has suffered any impairment.
As part of this testing the The present value of the dened benefit liabilities recognised on the recoverable amounts of cash generating units have been determined balance sheet is dependent on a number of assumptions including based on value-in-use calculations.
The use of this method requires interest rates of high quality corporate bonds, ination and mortality the estimation of future cash ows expected to arise from the continuing rates.
The net interest charge or return is dependent on both the interest operation of the cash generating unit and the choice of a suitable rates of high quality corporate bonds and the assumed investment discount rate in order to calculate the present value of the forecast returns on scheme assets.
The assumptions are based on the conditions cash ows.
Actual outcomes could vary signicantly from these at the time and changes in these assumptions can lead to significant estimates.
Further information on the impairment tests undertaken, movements in the estimated obligations.
To help the reader understand including the key assumptions, is given in note 12. the impact of changes in the key assumptions, a sensitivity analysis is provided in note 27.
Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is determined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use, calculated on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
At each reporting date the Group is required to assess whether there is objective evidence that its investments in associates and joint ventures may be impaired.
This requires estimates of the investments recoverable amounts, including present values of the Groups share of future cash ows.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 59 4 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS Income statement 2011 12 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total Sales 4,338 4,470 1,094 929 10,831 Retail profit 271 423 135 53 882 Exceptional items 12 Central costs 43 Share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates 20 Operating profit 807 Net finance costs 10 profit before taxation 797 2010 11 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total Sales 4,333 4,204 1,062 851 10,450 Retail profit 243 348 134 37 762 Exceptional items 6 Central costs 41 Share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates 17 Operating profit 698 Net finance costs 27 profit before taxation 671 Balance sheet 2011 12 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total Segment assets 1,403 1,309 505 596 3,813 Central liabilities 395 Goodwill 2,397 Net debt 88 Net assets 5,727 2010 11 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total Segment assets 1,172 1,233 512 560 3,477 Central liabilities 426 Goodwill 2,395 Net cash 14 Net assets 5,460 60 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 ACCOUNTS NO TES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS CONTINUED Other segmental information 2011 12 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Central Total Capital expenditure 225 118 55 48 4 450 Depreciation and amortisation 122 77 12 25 1 237 Impairment losses 21 4 7 1 Non-current assets 3,344 1,923 524 438 13 6,242 2010 11 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Central Total Capital expenditure 149 93 32 34 2 310 Depreciation and amortisation 124 75 11 26 2 238 Impairment losses 518 14 1 Non-current assets 3,252 1,925 527 425 16 6,145 1 Non-current assets exclude investments in joint ventures and associates, post employment benets, deferred tax assets, derivatives and other receivables.
The operating segments disclosed above are based on the information reported internally to the Board of Directors and Group Executive.
This information is predominantly based on the geographical areas in which the Group operates and which are managed separately.
The Group only has one business segment being the supply of home improvement products and services.
The Other International segment consists of Poland, China, Spain, Russia, the joint venture Kotas in Turkey and the associate Hornbach which has operations in Germany and other European countries.
Poland has been shown separately due to its signicance.
Central costs principally comprise the costs of the Groups head ofce.
Central liabilities comprise unallocated head ofce and other central items including pensions, interest and tax.
5 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS millions 2011 12 2010 11 Included within selling and distribution expenses UK stores acquisition integration 11 UK restructuring 2 9 9 9 Included within other income Loss profit on disposal of properties 3 3 3 3 Exceptional items before tax 12 6 Tax on exceptional items 7 3 Exceptional items 5 3 The Group acquired 29 ex-Focus DIY stores in the UK in the year and has incurred 11m of costs integrating these into the B&Q store network.
The UK restructuring credit of 2m reects the release of onerous property contract provisions for idle stores previously included as part of the B&Q UK store closure and downsizing programme in 2005 06.
In the prior year, the UK restructuring charge of 9m reected plans to consolidate the Groups distribution network in the UK through the construction of a new regional distribution centre in the south of England and the closure of other sites.
The provision covered primarily future costs of redundancies and dilapidations on the sites to be exited.
The Group has recorded a net exceptional loss of 3m on the disposal of properties 2010 11: 3m net profit.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 61 6 NET FINANCE COSTS millions 2011 12 2010 11 Bank overdrafts and bank loans 12 18 Medium Term Notes and other xed term debt 10 21 Finance leases 5 5 Financing fair value remeasurements 2 7 Unwinding of discount on provisions 4 3 Expected net interest charge on dened benefit pension schemes 7 Other interest payable 3 Capitalised interest 1 1 Finance costs 31 46 Cash and cash equivalents and current other investments 19 19 Expected net interest return on dened benefit pension schemes 2 Finance income 21 19 Net finance costs 10 27 Medium Term Notes and other xed term debt interest includes net interest income accrued on derivatives of 15m 2010 11: 31m income and amortisation of issue costs of borrowings of 1m 2010 11: 2m.
Capitalised interest relates to the centrally held borrowing pool and is calculated by applying a capitalisation rate of 2.0% 2010 11: 1.8% to expenditure on qualifying assets.
Financing fair value remeasurements comprise a net gain on derivatives, excluding accrued interest, of 6m 2010 11: 41m gain, offset by a net loss from fair value adjustments to the carrying value of borrowings and cash of 4m 2010 11: 34m loss.
7 PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION The following items of revenue have been credited in arriving at profit before taxation: millions 2011 12 2010 11 Sales 10,831 10,450 Other income 30 37 Finance income 21 19 Revenue 10,882 10,506 The following items of expense income have been charged credited in arriving at profit before taxation: millions 2011 12 2010 11 Operating lease rentals Minimum lease payments 448 436 Sublease income 20 24 428 412 Rental income received on investment property 5 4 1 Amortisation of other intangible assets 24 26 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and investment property Owned assets 205 201 Under finance leases 8 11 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and investment property 7 14 Loss profit on disposal Land and buildings and investment property 3 3 Fixtures, ttings and equipment 3 7 Other intangible assets 1 Inventories: write down to net realisable value 14 10 Trade and other receivables: write down of bad and doubtful debts 4 8 1 Of the amortisation of other intangible assets charge, 3m 2010 11: 4m and 21m 2010 11: 22m are included in selling and distribution expenses and administrative expenses respectively.
62 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 ACCOUNTS NO TES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7 PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION CONTINUED Auditors remuneration millions 2011 12 2010 11 Fees payable for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.2 1.2 Audit fees 1.4 1.4 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Other taxation advisory services 0.1 0.1 Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 Other services 0.2 Non-audit fees 0.5 0.3 Auditors remuneration 1.9 1.7 Details of the Groups policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 31.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
8 EMPLOYEES AND DIRECTORS millions 2011 12 2010 11 Wages and salaries 1,268 1,208 Social security costs 258 238 Post employment benets Dened contribution 8 6 Dened benefit 29 27 Share-based compensation 32 21 Employee benefit expenses 1,595 1,500 Number thousands 2011 12 2010 11 Stores 72 74 Administration 5 4 Average number of persons employed 77 78 The average number of persons employed excludes employees in the Groups joint ventures and associates.
Remuneration of key management personnel millions 2011 12 2010 11 Short term employee benets 8.4 7.9 Post employment benets 1.0 0.8 Share-based compensation 8.4 5.4 17.8 14.1 Key management consists of the Kingsher plc Board and the Chief Executives of Kingsher UK, Kingsher France and Kingsher International.
Further detail with respect to the Directors remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 46.
Other than as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report, there have been no transactions with key management during the year 2010 11: nil.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 63 9 INCOME TAX EXPENSE millions 2011 12 2010 11 UK corporation tax Current tax on profits for the year 68 73 Adjustments in respect of prior years 16 10 52 63 Overseas tax Current tax on profits for the year 142 118 Adjustments in respect of prior years 31 5 111 113 Deferred tax Current year 12 Adjustments in respect of prior years 12 5 Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 5 1 5 4 Income tax expense 158 180 Factors affecting tax charge for the year The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 26%.
The differences are explained below: millions 2011 12 2010 11 profit before taxation 797 671 profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 26% 2010 11: 28% 207 188 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 8 9 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 12 10 Temporary differences: Net gains on property 6 6 Losses not recognised 3 5 Foreign tax rate differences 14 3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 59 10 Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 5 1 Income tax expense 158 180 The effective rate of tax on profit before exceptional items and excluding tax adjustments in respect of prior years and changes in tax rates is 28% 2010 11: 29%.
Tax on exceptional items for the year is a credit of 7m, 5m of which relates to prior year items.
In 2010 11 tax on exceptional items was a credit of 3m, all of which related to current year items.
The effective tax rate calculation is set out in the Financial Review on page 13.
In addition to the amounts charged to the income statement, tax of 9m has been charged directly to equity 2010 11: 33m charge, of which a 33m credit 2010 11: 5m credit is included in current tax and a 42m charge 2010 11: 38m charge is included in deferred tax.
Kingsher paid 138m tax to the French tax authorities in the year ended 31 January 2004 as a consequence of the Kesa Electricals demerger and recorded this as an exceptional tax charge.
Kingsher appealed successfully against this tax liability and as a result received 169m from the French tax authorities in September 2009, representing a refund of the 138m and 31m of repayment supplement.
The French tax authorities appealed this decision and the hearing took place in May 2011 with the Court of Appeal nding in Kingshers favour.
The French tax authorities have appealed this decision to the final level of court although a date for this hearing has not yet been set.
Therefore no income has yet been recognised relating to this receipt.
64 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 ACCOUNTS NO TES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9 INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED Impact of changes in tax rates In 2010 the UK Government announced their intention to progressively reduce the rate of corporation tax suffered on business profits over a four year period.
The anticipated 1% reduction taking effect from 1 April 2011 was subsequently increased to 2% resulting in a statutory rate of 26% from that date.
These accounts also reect the enacted reduction to 25% that was due to have effect from 1 April 2012.
In addition, on 29 December 2011, the French government enacted a temporary two year 5% surcharge to the corporate tax liabilities of French companies, or groups of companies, whose combined turnover exceed 250m.
The surcharge applies in full to companies with a balance sheet date on or after 31 December 2011 and as a result the change applies to Kingsher retrospectively in the current period.
The combined effect of the above newly enacted rates in the UK and France has been to reduce the net deferred tax liability by 8m, comprising a credit of 5m to the income statement and a credit of 3m directly to equity.
On 21 March 2012 it was announced that from 1 April 2012 the UK statutory rate will be reduced further to 24%.
Subsequently, two additional 1% annual reductions are expected resulting in a statutory rate of 22% by 1 April 2014.
Since these further changes had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, they are not included in these financial statements.
The effect of these further decreases in the UK rate would be to reduce the net deferred tax liability as reported at 28 January 2012 by 12m.
10 EARNINGS PER SHARE 2011 12 2010 11 Weighted Weighted average Earnings average Earnings number per number per Earnings of shares share Earnings of shares share millions millions pence millions millions pence Basic earnings per share 640 2,331 27.5 494 2,349 21.0 Dilutive share options 44 0.6 38 0.3 Diluted earnings per share 640 2,375 26.9 494 2,387 20.7 Basic earnings per share 640 2,331 27.5 494 2,349 21.0 Exceptional items 12 0.5 60.3 Tax on exceptional and prior year items 66 2.8 14 0.6 Financing fair value remeasurements 2 0.1 7 0.3 Tax on nancing fair value remeasurements 20.1 Adjusted basic earnings per share 584 2,331 25.1 481 2,349 20.5 Diluted earnings per share 640 2,375 26.9 494 2,387 20.7 Exceptional items 12 0.5 60.3 Tax on exceptional and prior year items 66 2.7 14 0.6 Financing fair value remeasurements 2 0.1 7 0.3 Tax on nancing fair value remeasurements 20.1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 584 2,375 24.6 481 2,387 20.2 Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust ESOP which for the purpose of this calculation are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
These represent share options granted to employees where both the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys shares during the year and any related performance conditions have been met.
11 DIVIDENDS millions 2011 12 2010 11 Dividends to equity shareholders of the Company Final dividend for the year ended 29 January 2011 of 5.145p per share 30 January 2010: 3.575p per share 121 84 Interim dividend for the year ended 28 January 2012 of 2.47p per share 29 January 2011: 1.925p per share 57 45 178 129 The proposed final dividend for the year ended 28 January 2012 of 6.37p per share is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 65 12 GOODWILL millions Cost At 30 January 2011 2,512 Additions 2 Exchange differences 7 At 28 January 2012 2,521 Impairment At 30 January 2011 117 Exchange differences 7 At 28 January 2012 124 Net carrying amount At 28 January 2012 2,397 Cost At 31 January 2010 2,507 Exchange differences 5 At 29 January 2011 2,512 Impairment At 31 January 2010 112 Exchange differences 5 At 29 January 2011 117 Net carrying amount At 29 January 2011 2,395 During the year the Group acquired National Energy Services Limited in the UK, resulting in additions to goodwill of 2m.
Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to groups of cash generating units CGUs as follows: millions UK France Poland China Total At 28 January 2012 Cost 1,798 518 81 124 2,521 Impairment 124 124 Net carrying amount 1,798 518 81 2,397 At 29 January 2011 Cost 1,796 518 81 117 2,512 Impairment 117 117 Net carrying amount 1,796 518 81 2,395 The recoverable amounts of these groups of CGUs have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The groups of CGUs for which the carrying amount of goodwill is deemed significant are the UK, France and Poland.
The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations are set out below: Assumptions The cash ow projections are based on approved financial budgets and strategic plans covering a three year period.
These are based on both past performance and expectations for future market development.
Key drivers in the plans are like-for-like LFL sales, margin and operating profit percentage.
LFL sales are based on the Groups market expectations and the CGUs market shares.
Cash ows beyond this three year period are calculated using a growth rate of 1.9% 2010 11: 1.9% which does not exceed the long term average growth rate for retail businesses operating in the same countries as the CGUs.
The weighted average cost of capital, used to discount future cash ows, is calculated using a combination of the cost of debt and the cost of equity balanced according to the Groups level of financial gearing.
A risk adjustment is then made for the country in which the CGU operates.
66 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 ACCOUNTS NO TES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12 GOODWILL CONTINUED UK The risk-adjusted discount rate of 10.5% 2010 11: 11.2% is pre-tax and reects the specic risks inherent in the UK market.
France The risk-adjusted discount rate of 13.3% 2010 11: 11.4% is pre-tax and reects the specic risks inherent in the French market.
Poland The risk-adjusted discount rate of 14.7% 2010 11: 12.7% is pre-tax and reects the specic risks inherent in the Polish market.
The Board do not consider that a reasonably possible change in the assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations would lead to the recoverable amounts of goodwill in each of UK, France and Poland being below the respective carrying amounts of goodwill.
13 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Computer millions software Other Total Cost At 30 January 2011 293 13 306 Additions 61 61 Disposals 10 4 14 Exchange differences 1 1 At 28 January 2012 343 9 352 Amortisation At 30 January 2011 213 7 220 Charge for the year 23 1 24 Disposals 94 13 Exchange differences 112 At 28 January 2012 226 3 229 Net carrying amount At 28 January 2012 117 6 123 Cost At 31 January 2010 251 13 264 Additions 42 42 Disposals 1 1 Exchange differences 1 1 At 29 January 2011 293 13 306 Amortisation At 31 January 2010 188 6 194 Charge for the year 25 1 26 Disposals 1 1 Exchange differences 1 1 At 29 January 2011 213 7 220 Net carrying amount At 29 January 2011 80 6 86 None of the Groups other intangible assets have indefinite useful lives.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 67 14 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land and Fixtures, ttings millions buildings and equipment Total Cost At 30 January 2011 2,989 2,246 5,235 Additions 167 206 373 Disposals 13 50 63 Transfers to investment property 25 25 Exchange differences 69 27 96 At 28 January 2012 3,049 2,375 5,424 Depreciation At 30 January 2011 309 1,294 1,603 Charge for the year 43 169 212 Impairment losses 4 3 7 Disposals 845 53 Exchange differences 39 12 At 28 January 2012 345 1,412 1,757 Net carrying amount At 28 January 2012 2,704 963 3,667 Cost At 31 January 2010 2,936 2,104 5,040 Additions 111 201 312 Disposals 86 68 154 Exchange differences 28 9 37 At 29 January 2011 2,989 2,246 5,235 Depreciation At 31 January 2010 263 1,165 1,428 Charge for the year 39 172 211 Impairment losses 10 4 14 Disposals 10 53 63 Exchange differences 7 6 13 At 29 January 2011 309 1,294 1,603 Net carrying amount At 29 January 2011 2,680 952 3,632 Assets in the course of construction included above at net carrying amount At 28 January 2012 49 64 113 At 29 January 2011 134 51 185 Assets held under finance leases included above at net carrying amount At 28 January 2012 20 29 49 At 29 January 2011 24 24 48 The amount of borrowing costs capitalised in property, plant and equipment in the year has been 1m 2010 11: 1m.
The cumulative total of borrowing costs included at the balance sheet date, net of depreciation, is 26m 2010 11: 25m.
68 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 ACCOUNTS NO TES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED Land and buildings are analysed as follows: 2011 12 2010 11 millions Freehold Long leasehold Short leasehold Total Total Cost 2,358 122 569 3,049 2,989 Depreciation 126 4 215 345 309 Net carrying amount 2,232 118 354 2,704 2,680 Properties that were held at 1 February 2004 are carried at deemed cost, being the fair value of land and buildings as at the transition date to IFRS.
Fair value is taken to be the open market value at the date of valuation.
All property acquired after 1 February 2004 is carried at cost.
Included in land and buildings is leasehold land that is in effect a prepayment for the use of land and is accordingly being amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets.
The cost and depreciation of leasehold land included in land and buildings at 28 January 2012 are 315m and 78m 2010 11: 264m and 54m respectively.
The Group does not revalue properties within its financial statements.
A valuation exercise is performed for internal purposes annually in November by independent external valuers covering over one third of the property portfolio with the remaining portfolio valued internally.
Based on this exercise the value of property is 3.4 billion 2010 11: 3.3bn.
The key assumption used in calculating this is the estimated yields.
15 INVESTMENT PROPERTY millions Cost At 30 January 2011 44 Additions 9 Disposals 9 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 25 Exchange differences 2 At 28 January 2012 67 Depreciation At 30 January 2011 12 Charge for the year 1 Exchange differences 1 At 28 January 2012 12 Net carrying amount At 28 January 2012 55 Cost At 31 January 2010 34 Additions 7 Exchange differences 3 At 29 January 2011 44 Depreciation At 31 January 2010 10 Charge for the year 1 Exchange differences 1 At 29 January 2011 12 Net carrying amount At 29 January 2011 32 A property valuation exercise is performed for internal purposes annually as described in note 14.
Based on this exercise the fair value of investment property is 90m 2010 11: 71m.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 69 16 SUBSIDIARIES A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note4 of the Companys separate financial statements.
17 INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES millions At 30 January 2011 259 Share of post-tax results 32 Dividends 10 Exchange differences 10 At 28 January 2012 271 At 31 January 2010 234 Share of post-tax results 31 Dividends 6 At 29 January 2011 259 No goodwill is included in the carrying amount of investments in joint ventures and associates 2010 11: nil.
Details of the significant joint ventures and associates are shown below: Country of % interest Class of incorporation held shares owned Main activity Principal joint ventures 1 Kotas Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A. S. Turkey 50% Ordinary Retailing Principal associates Ordinary & 2 Hornbach Holding A. G. Germany 21% preference Retailing Creal S. A. France 49% Ordinary Finance 1 Owing to local conditions, this company prepares its financial statements to 31 December.
2 This company prepares its financial statements to 28 February or 29 February in a leap year.
In order to avoid undue delay in the presentation of the Group financial statements, the Group records its share of post-tax results for the year ended 30 November.
The value of the Groups investment based on published price quotations at 28 January 2012 was 178m 2010 11: 175m.
Aggregate amounts relating to joint ventures and associates: 2011 12 2010 11 millions Joint ventures Associates Total Joint ventures Associates Total Non-current assets 29 249 278 29 277 306 Current assets 59 296 355 54 297 351 Current liabilities 54 195 249 49 212 261 Non-current liabilities 2 111 113 2 135 137 Share of net assets 32 239 271 32 227 259 Sales 166 608 774 165 569 734 Operating expenses 152 570 722 151 535 686 Operating profit 14 38 52 14 34 48 Net finance costs 2 7 9 1 5 6 profit before taxation 12 31 43 13 29 42 Income tax expense 2 9 11 3 8 11 Share of post-tax results 10 22 32 10 21 31 70 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 ACCOUNTS NO TES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18 INVENTORIES millions 2011 12 2010 11 Finished goods for resale 1,844 1,791 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales for the year ended 28 January 2012 is 6,304m 2010 11: 6,089m.
19 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES millions 2011 12 2010 11 Non-current Prepayments 13 13 Property receivables 2 2 Other receivables 2 17 15 Current Trade receivables 61 72 Provision for bad and doubtful debts 12 16 Net trade receivables 49 56 Property receivables 3 2 Prepayments 141 137 Other receivables 338 318 531 513 Trade and other receivables 548 528 Other receivables principally comprise rebates due from suppliers.
The fair values of trade and other receivables approximate to their carrying amounts.
Refer to note 24 for information on the credit risk associated with trade and other receivables.
20 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS millions 2011 12 2010 11 Cash at bank and in hand 271 274 Short term deposits 316 457 587 731 Short term deposits comprise bank deposits and investments in money market funds, xed for periods of up to three months.
The fair values of cash and cash equivalents approximate to their carrying amounts.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 71 21 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES millions 2011 12 2010 11 Current Trade payables 1,256 1,366 Other taxation and social security 229 218 Deferred income 153 187 Accruals and other payables 718 748 2,356 2,519 Non-current Accruals and other payables 121 76 Trade and other payables 2,477 2,595 Accruals include allowance for customer returns, representing the estimate of future sales returns at the year end.
The fair values of trade and other payables approximate to their carrying amounts.
22 BORROWINGS millions 2011 12 2010 11 Current Bank overdrafts 102 95 Bank loans 82 89 Medium Term Notes and other xed term debt 172 Finance leases 11 12 367 196 Non-current Bank loans 16 15 Medium Term Notes and other xed term debt 306 504 Finance leases 53 58 375 577 Borrowings 742 773 Bank overdrafts and loans Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and current bank loans mature within the next 12 months.
Bank overdrafts are arranged at oating rates of interest.
Current bank loans include Chinese Renminbi loans drawn under committed and uncommitted facilities expiring in 2013 and 2012 respectively.
These loans bear interest based on the Peoples Bank of China reference rate and are xed for periods of up to six months.
At the year end the effective borrowing rate on the drawn amounts was 6.2%.
Other current bank loans are arranged at oating rates of interest.
Non-current bank loans have an average maturity of three years 2010 11: two years and are arranged at xed rates of interest with an effective interest rate of 3.6% 2010 11: 4.3%.
72 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 ACCOUNTS NO TES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22 BORROWINGS CONTINUED Medium Term Notes and other xed term debt Medium Term Notes MTNs were issued in prior years under the Groups 2,500m MTN programme and further notes issued as a US Private Placement USPP.
2 $297m swapped to oating rate Sterling based on 6 month LIBOR plus a margin using a cross-currency interest rate swap.
3 Swapped to oating rate Euro based on 3 month EURIBOR plus a margin using a cross-currency interest rate swap.
28m was repurchased in the year.
The Group values its MTNs and USPP on an amortised cost basis, adjusted for fair value gains and losses based on observable market inputs attributable to the risk being hedged in designated and effective fair value hedge relationships.
The carrying amounts of the MTNs and USPP have been impacted both by exchange rate movements and fair value adjustments for interest rate risk.
At 28 January 2012, the cumulative effect of interest rate fair value adjustments is to increase the Groups MTNs and USPP carrying amounts by 49m 2010 11: 44m increase.
The USPP contains a covenant requiring that, as at the end of each semi-annual and annual financial reporting period, the ratio of operating profit to net interest payable, excluding exceptional items, should not be less than 3 to 1 for the preceding 12 month period.
The Group has complied with this covenant for the year ended 28 January 2012.
Finance leases The Group leases certain of its buildings and xtures and equipment under finance leases.
The average lease term maturity for buildings is seven years 2010 11: seven years and for xtures and equipment is two years 2010 11: two years.
Certain building leases include a clause to enable upward revision of the rental charge to prevailing market conditions.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of minimum lease payments, are as follows: 2011 12 2010 11 Present value Minimum Present value Minimum millions of payments payments of payments payments Less than one year 11 14 12 16 One to five years 29 39 30 42 More than five years 24 35 28 41 Total 64 88 70 99 Less amounts representing finance charges 24 29 Present value of minimum lease payments 64 70 The interest rates inherent in the finance leases are xed at the contract date for the lease term.
The weighted average effective interest rate on the Groups finance leases is 8.4% 2010 11: 8.4%.
Fair value of borrowings The fair values of current borrowings approximate to their carrying amounts.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 73 Where available, market values have been used to determine the fair values of non-current borrowings.
Where market values are not available or are not reliable, fair values have been calculated by discounting cash ows at prevailing interest and foreign exchange rates.
The carrying amounts and fair values of non-current borrowings are as follows: 2011 12 2010 11 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair millions amount value amount value Bank loans 16 16 15 15 Medium Term Notes and other xed term debt 306 314 504 511 Finance leases 53 84 58 75 375 414 577 601 Assets worth RMB 1.6bn 158m secure a bank facility in China, which matures in July 2013 2010 11: RMB 1.2bn.
23 DERIVATIVES The net fair value of derivatives by hedge designation at the balance sheet date is: millions 2011 12 2010 11 Fair value hedges 64 58 Cash ow hedges 9 8 Net investment hedges 9 Non-designated hedges 5 8 78 49 Non-current assets 66 62 Current assets 26 15 Current liabilities 6 11 Non-current liabilities 8 17 78 49 The fair values are calculated by discounting future cash ows arising from the instruments and adjusting for credit risk.
These fair value measurements are all made using observable market rates of interest, foreign exchange and credit risk and are therefore classied as level 2 in the IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, fair value hierarchy.
At 28 January 2012 net derivative assets included in net debt amount to 67m 2010 11: 56m net derivative assets.
Fair value hedges Fair value hedges comprise interest rate swap contracts that convert xed rate debt issued under the Groups Medium Term Note programme and the US Private Placement to oating rate liabilities, along with certain cross-currency swaps.
At 28 January 2012 the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 516m 2010 11: 537m.
During the year, interest rate swaps have been cancelled as a result of repayments or repurchases of underlying debt.
The Sterling equivalent amount of those cancellations at year end exchange rates was 28m.
Cash ow hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge currency exposures of forecast inventory purchases.
At 28 January 2012 the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 376m 2010 11: 279m.
The associated fair value gains and losses will be transferred to inventories when the purchases occur during the next 12 months.
Losses of 8m 2010 11: 14m gains have been transferred to inventories for contracts which matured during theyear.
Net investment hedges Cross-currency interest rate swaps hedge currency exposures of overseas investments.
At 28 January 2012 the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is nil 2010 11: 48m.
Non-designated hedges The Group has entered into certain derivatives to provide a hedge against uctuations in the income statement arising from balance sheet positions.
At 28 January 2012 the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 715m 2010 11: 1,038m.
These have not been accounted for as hedges, since the fair value movements of the derivatives in the income statement offset the retranslation of the balance sheet positions.
These include short term foreign exchange contracts.
The Group has reviewed all significant contracts for embedded derivatives and none of these contracts has any embedded derivatives which are not closely related to the host contract and therefore the Group is not required to account for these separately.
74 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 ACCOUNTS NO TES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Kingshers treasury function has primary responsibility for managing certain financial risks to which the Group is exposed.
The Board reviews the levels of exposure regularly and approves treasury policies covering the use of financial instruments required to manage these risks.
Kingshers treasury function is not run as a profit centre and does not enter into any transactions for speculative purposes.
In the normal course of business the Group uses financial instruments including derivatives.
The main types of financial instruments used are Medium Term Notes and other xed term debt, bank loans and deposits, money market funds, interest rate swaps, commodity swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
Interest rate risk Borrowings arranged at oating rates of interest expose the Group to cash ow interest rate risk, whereas those arranged at xed rates of interest expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group manages its interest rate risk by entering into certain interest rate derivative contracts which modify the interest rate payable on the Groups underlying debt instruments, principally the Medium Term Notes and other xed term debt.
Currency risk The Groups principal currency exposures are to the Euro, US Dollar, Polish Zloty and Chinese Renminbi.
The Euro, Polish Zloty and Chinese Renminbi exposures are operational and arise through the ownership of retail businesses in France, Spain, Ireland, Poland and China.
In particular, the Group generates a substantial part of its profit from the Eurozone, and as such is exposed to continuing uncertainty over the future of the Euro and the resultant market volatility.
The Group has undertaken a risk assessment and is developing a series of risk mitigation strategies, to supplement existing hedging activity detailed below, to assist in insulating itself against future Eurozone instability.
Balance sheet Euro translation exposure is currently hedged by maintaining a proportion of the Groups debt in Euro, whilst Chinese Renminbi balance sheet translation exposure is partly hedged by local debt in China.
It is the Groups policy not to hedge the translation of overseas earnings into Sterling.
In addition, the Group has significant transactional exposure arising on the purchase of inventories denominated in US Dollars, which it hedges using forward foreign exchange contracts.
Under Group policies, the Group companies are required to hedge committed inventory purchases and a proportion of forecast inventory purchases arising in the next 12 months, and this is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Kingshers policy is to manage the interest rate and currency prole of its issued debt using derivative contracts.
The effect of these contracts on the Groups net debt cash is as follows: Sterling Euro US Dollar Other millions Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Total At 28 January 2012 Net debt before fair value adjustments and nancing derivatives 134 7 183 290 189 2 90 11 106 Fair value adjustments to net debt 8 3 38 49 Financing derivatives 81 892 171 97 293 262 249 67 Net debt 61 885 15 193 66 264 90 260 88 At 29 January 2011 Net cash before fair value adjustments and nancing derivatives 162 38 193 442 187 2 50 12 2 Fair value adjustments to net cash 10 5 29 44 Financing derivatives 259 1,257 178 187 216 226 247 56 Net cash 87 1,219 20 629 228 50 259 14 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 75 Financial instruments principally affected by interest rate and currency risks, being the significant market risks impacting Kingsher, are borrowings, deposits and derivatives.
The following analysis illustrates the sensitivity of net finance costs reecting the impact on profit and derivative cash ow hedges reecting the impact on other comprehensive income to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
2011 12 2010 11 Net finance Net finance costs costs Income Income millions costs costs Effect of 1% rise in interest rates on net finance costs Sterling 9 12 Euro 2 6 US Dollar 3 2 Polish Zloty 2 2 Chinese Renminbi Due to the Groups hedging arrangements and offsetting foreign currency assets and liabilities, there is no significant impact on profit from the retranslation of financial instruments.
2011 12 2010 11 Derivative Derivative cash ow cash ow hedges hedges Increase Increase millions decrease decrease Effect of 10% appreciation in foreign exchange rates on derivative cash ow hedges US Dollar against Sterling 17 14 US Dollar against Euro 15 14 The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on cash ow hedges results from retranslation of forward purchases of US Dollars used to hedge forecast US Dollar purchases of inventories.
The associated fair value gains and losses are deferred in equity until the purchases occur.
See note 23 for further details.
The retranslation of foreign currency borrowings and derivatives designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations is reported in equity and offset by the retranslation of the hedged net investments.
The sensitivity analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying amount of trade and other payables and receivables, due to the low associated sensitivity, and are before the effect of tax.
It has been prepared on the basis that the Groups debt, hedging activities, hedge accounting designations, and foreign currency proportion of debt and derivative contracts remain constant, reecting the positions at 28January 2012 and 29 January 2011 respectively.
As a consequence, the analysis relates to the position at those dates and is not necessarily representative of the years then ended.
In preparing the sensitivity analysis it is assumed that all hedges are fully effective.
The effects shown above would be reversed in the event of an equal and opposite change in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
76 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 ACCOUNTS NO TES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Liquidity risk The Group regularly reviews the level of cash and debt facilities required to fund its activities.
This involves preparing a prudent cash ow forecast for the next three years, determining the level of debt facilities required to fund the business, planning for repayments of debt at its maturity and identifying an appropriate amount of headroom to provide a reserve against unexpected outows.
The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
It excludes trade and other payables due to the low associated liquidity risk.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows including interest and as such may differ from the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet.
Less than 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 More than millions 1 year years years years years 5 years Total At 28 January 2012 Bank overdrafts 102 102 Bank loans 85 6 4 2 4 101 Medium Term Notes and other xed term debt 191 47 87 10 52 125 512 Finance leases 14 13 11 9 6 35 88 Derivatives receipts 23 47 87 10 52 125 344 Derivatives payments 7 31 90 3 39 101 271 At 29 January 2011 Bank overdrafts 95 95 Bank loans 91 2 7 4 3 107 Medium Term Notes and other xed term debt 25 198 48 116 10 175 572 Finance leases 16 12 11 10 9 41 99 Derivatives receipts 25 25 48 116 10 175 399 Derivatives payments 8 12 41 193 6 169 429 At 28 January 2012 the Group has an undrawn revolving facility of 200m which matures in August 2016.
The 200m facility contains a covenant requiring that, as at the end of each annual and semi-annual financial reporting period, the ratio of operating profit to net interest payable, excluding exceptional items, should not be less than 3 to 1 for the preceding 12 month period.
The Group has complied with this covenant for the year ended 28 January 2012. Credit risk The Group deposits surplus cash with a number of banks with the strongest short term credit ratings and with money market funds which have AAA credit ratings and offer same day liquidity.
A credit limit for each counterparty is agreed by the Board covering the full value of deposits and a proportion of the value of derivative contracts.
The credit risk is reduced further by spreading the investments and derivative contracts across several counterparties.
At 28 January 2012, the highest cash deposit with a single counterparty was 63m 2010 11: 86m.
The Groups exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of cash at bank and short term deposits and the fair value of derivativeassets.
No further credit risk provision is required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful debts as the Group has a low concentration of credit risk in respect of trade receivables.
Concentration of risk is limited as a result of low individual balances with short maturity spread across a large number of unrelated customers.
At 28 January 2012, trade and other receivables that are past due but not provided against amount to 62m 2010 11: 34m, of which 3m 2010 11: 3m are over 120 days past due.
Refer also to note 35 for details on guarantees provided by the Group.
Capital risk Capital risk management disclosures are provided in the Financial review on page 17. BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 77 25 DEFERRED TAX millions 2011 12 2010 11 Deferred tax assets 23 27 Deferred tax liabilities 269 238 246 211 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Accelerated Post tax Gains on employment millions depreciation property Provisions Tax losses benets Other Total At 30 January 2011 98 161 27 2 11 8 211 Charge credit to income statement 22 16 8 6 4 1 5 Charge to equity 36 6 42 Exchange differences 51 2 1 1 2 At 28 January 2012 115 144 33 7 30 3 246 At 31 January 2010 76 178 20 1 57 6 170 Charge credit to income statement 22 1662 6 4 Charge credit to equity 41 3 38 Exchange differences 1 1 1 1 1 1 At 29 January 2011 98 161 27 2 11 8 211 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of 246m 2010 11: 268m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred taxasset has been recognised in respect of 23m 2010 11: 4m of such losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining 223m 2010 11: 264m due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are tax losses arising inChina of 210m 2010 11: 213m which can only be carried forward for up to five years.
Other unrecognised losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures.
As the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
Earnings which could be remitted on which there would be tax to pay total 114m 2010 11: 99m.
26 PROVISIONS Onerous property millions contracts Restructuring Total At 30 January 2011 26 53 79 Credit to income statement 2 2 4 Utilised in the year 5 15 20 Unwinding of discount 224 At 28 January 2012 21 38 59 Current liabilities 412 16 Non-current liabilities 17 26 43 21 38 59 Within the onerous property contracts provisions, Kingsher has provided against future liabilities for all properties sublet at a shortfall and long term idle properties, except those related to restructuring programmes which are included in the restructuring provisions.
The provisions are based on the present value of future cash outows relating to rent, rates and service charges.
Restructuring provisions include the estimated costs of the UK and China restructuring programmes.
The provisions have been discounted to reect the time value of money and the risks associated with the specic liabilities.
The ultimate costs and timing of cash ows related to the above provisions are largely dependent on exiting the property lease contracts and subletting surplus space.
78 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 ACCOUNTS NO TES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The Group operates a variety of post employment benefit arrangements covering both funded and unfunded dened benefit schemes and funded dened contribution schemes.
The most significant are the funded, final salary dened benefit and dened contribution schemes for the Groups UK employees.
Various dened benefit and dened contribution schemes are operated in France and Poland, where they are retirement indemnity in nature, and in China.
The overseas schemes are not material in relation to the Group as a whole.
Dened contribution schemes Pension costs for dened contribution schemes, at rates specified in the individual schemes rules, are as follows: millions 2011 12 2010 11 Charge to operating profit 8 6 Dened benefit schemes The Groups principal dened benefit pension scheme is in the UK.
The assets of this scheme are held separately from the Group in trusteeadministered funds.
The Trustees are required to act in the best interests of the schemes beneciaries.
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the scheme Trustee and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2010.
The Company monitors the scheme funding level on a regular basis and will review with the scheme Trustee at future valuations the continued appropriateness of the repayment schedule currently inplace.
The UK scheme was closed to new entrants in 2004.
In February 2012 the Group announced a proposal to close the UK final salary scheme to future benefit accrual with effect from 30 June 2012 and entered into a 60 day consultation period with active members of the scheme.
At the same time the Group unveiled a plan to offer an enhanced dened contribution scheme to all its UK employees.
It is anticipated that any reduction in cash contributions from closing the dened benefit scheme would be offset by higher employee participation in, and employer contributions to, the enhanced dened contribution scheme.
UK scheme interest in property partnership On 30 June 2011 the Group entered into the second phase of an arrangement with the UK scheme Trustee to address an element of the scheme deficit and provide greater security to the Pension Trustee.
This followed the first phase that had been entered into in January 2011.
In the prior year, the Group established a partnership, Kingsher Scottish Limited Partnership Kingsher SLP.
The partnership interests are held by the Group and by the scheme, the latter resulting from an investment of 78m made by the scheme Trustee in January 2011, which has been followed by a further investment of 106m in June 2011.
These investments followed Group contributions of the same amounts into the scheme.
Under IAS 19, Employee benets, the investments held by the scheme in Kingsher SLP do not represent plan assets for the purposes of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly the pension deficit position does not reect these investments.
The Group has control over the partnership and therefore it is consolidated in these Group financial statements.
Accordingly, advantage has been taken of the exemptions provided by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 from the requirements for preparation, delivery and publication of the partnerships accounts.
UK property assets with market values of 83m and 119m were transferred, in January 2011 and June 2011 respectively, into the partnership and leased back to B&Q plc.
The Group retains control over these properties, including the exibility to substitute alternative properties.
The Trustee has a first charge over the properties in the event that Kingsher plc becomes insolvent.
The schemes partnership interest entitles it to the majority of the income of the partnership over the next 20 years.
The payments to the scheme by Kingsher SLP over this term are reected as Group pension contributions on a cash basis.
At the end of this term, Kingsher plc has the option to acquire the Trustees partnership interest in Kingsher SLP.
Income statement 2011 12 2010 11 millions UK Other Total UK Other Total Amounts charged to operating profit Current service cost 24 5 29 23 4 27 Amounts charged credited to net finance costs Interest on dened benefit obligations 90 3 93 90 2 92 Expected return on pension scheme assets 94 1 95 84 1 85 Net interest return charge 4 2 2 617 Total charged to income statement 20 7 27 29 5 34 Of the charge to operating profit, 22m 2010 11: 21m and 7m 2010 11: 6m are included in selling and distribution expenses and administrative expenses respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of comprehensive income.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 79 Balance sheet 2011 12 2010 11 millions UK Other Total UK Other Total Present value of dened benefit obligations 1,902 60 1,962 1,646 57 1,703 Fair value of scheme assets 1,927 20 1,947 1,625 20 1,645 Surplus deficit in scheme 25 40 15 21 37 58 The amount of the dened benefit obligation at 28 January 2012 which relates to funded dened benefit schemes is 1,962m 2010 11: 1,703m.
Movements in the surplus or deficit are as follows: 2011 12 2010 11 millions UK Other Total UK Other Total deficit in scheme at beginning of year 21 37 58 171 27 198 Current service cost 24 5 29 23 4 27 Interest on dened benefit obligations 90 3 93 90 2 92 Expected return on pension scheme assets 94 1 95 84 1 85 Actuarial gains losses 18 2 20 134 6 128 Contributions paid by employer 48 1 49 45 1 46 Exchange differences 11 Surplus deficit in scheme at end of year 25 40 15 21 37 58 Movements in the present value of dened benefit obligations are as follows: 2011 12 2010 11 millions UK Other Total UK Other Total Present value of dened benefit obligations at beginning of year 1,646 57 1,703 1,666 50 1,716 Current service cost 24 5 29 23 4 27 Interest on dened benefit obligations 90 3 93 90 2 92 Actuarial losses gains 197 2 195 80 6 74 Contributions paid by employees 7 7 8 8 Benets paid 62 1 63 61 4 65 Exchange differences 22 11 Present value of dened benefit obligations at end of year 1,902 60 1,962 1,646 57 1,703 Movements in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows: 2011 12 2010 11 millions UK Other Total UK Other Total Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of year 1,625 20 1,645 1,495 23 1,518 Expected return on pension scheme assets 94 1 95 84 1 85 Actuarial gains on pension scheme assets 215 215 54 54 Contributions paid by employer 48 1 49 45 1 46 Contributions paid by employees 7 7 8 8 Benets paid 62 1 63 61 4 65 Exchange differences 1 1 1 1 Fair value of scheme assets at end of year 1,927 20 1,947 1,625 20 1,645 The fair value of scheme assets is analysed as follows: 2011 12 2010 11 millions UK Other Total % of total UK Other Total % of total Equities 486 486 25% 498 498 30% Bonds 1,298 1,298 67% 959 959 59% Property 87 87 4% 84 84 5% Other 56 20 76 4% 84 20 104 6% Total fair value of scheme assets 1,927 20 1,947 100% 1,625 20 1,645 100% 80 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 ACCOUNTS NO TES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED The actual returns on pension scheme assets are as follows: 2011 12 2010 11 millions UK Other Total UK Other Total Actual return on pension scheme assets 309 1 310 138 1 139 The estimated amount of total contributions expected to be paid to the UK, France and other pension schemes by the Group during the next financial year, before any impact of the proposed closure to future benefit accrual of the UK final salary scheme, is 49m.
Should the final salary scheme close to future benefit accrual, these contributions would reduce accordingly.
Amounts for the current and previous four years millions 2011 12 2010 11 2009 10 2008 09 2007 08 Present value of dened benefit obligations 1,962 1,703 1,716 1,437 1,395 Fair value of scheme assets 1,947 1,645 1,518 1,363 1,472 deficit surplus in scheme 15 58 198 74 77 Changes in assumptions underlying present value of dened benefit obligations 195 40 226 21 116 Percentage of dened benefit obligations 10% 2% 13% 1% 8% Experience gains losses arising on dened benefit obligations 34 1 12 Percentage of dened benefit obligations 2% 1% Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 215 54 61 211 57 Percentage of scheme assets 11% 3% 4% 15% 4% Total gains losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the year 20 128 165 191 47 Cumulative losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 191 211 Principal actuarial valuation assumptions The assumptions used in calculating the costs and obligations of the Groups dened benefit pension schemes are set by the Directors after consultation with independent professionally qualied actuaries.
The assumptions are based on the conditions at the time and changes in these assumptions can lead to significant movements in the estimated obligations, as illustrated in the sensitivity analysis.
The UK scheme discount rate is based on the yield on the iBoxx over 15 year AA-rated Sterling corporate bond index adjusted for the difference in term between iBoxx and scheme liabilities.
The overall expected rate of return on scheme assets reects market expectations at the valuation date of long term asset returns and the mix of assets in the schemes.
2011 12 2010 11 Annual % rate UK Other UK Other Discount rate 4.5 4.6 5.6 4.4 Salary escalation 3.8 2.0 to 6.7 4.3 2.0 to 6.7 Rate of pension increases 3.0 3.5 Price ination 3.0 2.0 3.5 2.0 2011 12 2010 11 % rate of return UK Other UK Other Equities 7.6 8.5 Bonds 3.4 4.8 Property 5.8 6.9 Other 2.6 3.5 3.7 3.5 Overall expected rate of return 4.5 3.5 6.0 3.5 For the UK scheme, the mortality assumptions used in the actuarial valuations have been selected with regard to the characteristics and experience of the membership of the scheme from 2007 to 2010.
The base mortality assumptions have been derived by adjusting standard mortality tables SAPS tables projected forward to 2010 with the medium cohort improvement factors for males and with the standard improvement factors for females.
In addition, allowance has been made for future increases in life expectancy.
For males, the allowance is in line with medium cohort improvements subject to a minimum rate of improvement of 1% pa, and for females, the allowance is in line with the average of the standard series and long cohort improvements, subject to a minimum of 1% pa.
These improvements take into account trends observed within the scheme over the past decade and general population trends.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 81 The assumptions for life expectancy of UK scheme members are as follows: Years 2011 12 2010 11 Age to which current pensioners are expected to live 60 now Male 86.4 86.4 Female 87.1 87.1 Age to which future pensioners are expected to live 60 in 15 years time Male 87.1 87.1 Female 88.7 88.7 The following sensitivity analysis for the UK scheme shows the estimated impact on obligations resulting from changes to key actuarial assumptions, whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on dened benefit obligation Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 36m Salary escalation Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 3m Rate of pension increases Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 24m Price ination Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 36m Mortality Increase in life expectancy by one year Increase by 57m 28 SHARE CAPITAL Number of Ordinary ordinary share shares capital millions millions At 30 January 2011 2,364 371 New shares issued under share schemes 51 At 28 January 2012 2,369 372 At 31 January 2010 2,362 371 New shares issued under share schemes 2 At 29 January 2011 2,364 371 29 OTHER RESERVES Cash ow Translation millions hedge reserve reserve Other Total At 30 January 2011 5 385 159 539 Currency translation differences Group 129 129 Joint ventures and associates 10 10 Cash ow hedges Fair value gains 10 10 Losses transferred to inventories 8 8 Tax on other comprehensive income 6 1 5 Other comprehensive income for the year 12 138 126 At 28 January 2012 7247 159 413 At 31 January 2010 1356 159 516 Currency translation differences Group 31 31 Cash ow hedges Fair value gains 5 5 Gains transferred to inventories 14 14 Tax on other comprehensive income 3 2 1 Other comprehensive income for the year 6 29 23 At 29 January 2011 5 385 159 539 The other category of reserve represents the premium on the issue of convertible loan stock in 1993 and the merger reserve relating to the acquisition of Darty.
82 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 ACCOUNTS NO TES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 2011 12 2010 11 Weighted Weighted average average Options exercise price Options exercise price Number Number Outstanding at beginning of year 77,771,222 0.42 69,176,509 0.54 1, 2 Granted during the year 29,570,764 0.28 22,327,629 0.20 Forfeited during the year 6,352,907 0.83 7,768,309 0.41 Exercised during the year 11,741,638 0.56 5,087,464 0.70 Expired during the year 877,143 2.14 Outstanding at end of year 89,247,441 0.33 77,771,222 0.42 Exercisable at end of year 3,639,445 1.60 3,108,255 2.15 1 The charge to the income statement for the years ended 28 January 2012 and 29 January 2011 in respect of share-based payments includes the first years charge of the 2012 and 2011 Kingsher Incentive Share Scheme KISS grants respectively, based on the cash bonus for the year.
Since grants under the KISS are made following the year end to which the first year of charge relates, it is not possible to give the number of options granted until after the year end.
2 The weighted average exercise price for options granted during the year represents a blend of nil price KISS, Performance Share Plan and Store Management Incentive Share Scheme options and discounted Sharesave options see below.
Information on the share schemes is given in note 13 of the Companys separate financial statements.
Options have been exercised on a regular basis throughout the year.
On that basis, the weighted average share price during the year, rather than at the date of exercise, is 2.55 2010 11: 2.30.
The options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices ranging from nil to 2.38 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.6 years 2010 11: 2.1 years.
The Group recognised a total expense of 32m in the year ended 28 January 2012 2010 11: 21m relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
Under IFRS 2, Share-based payment, the Group recognises a charge for share options granted after 7 November 2002.
Option numbers and other disclosures above are for those options granted after this date.
A full list of outstanding options is given in note 13 of the Companys separate financial statements.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 83 The fair value of share options and deferred shares is obtained using the Black-Scholes and stochastic option pricing models.
84 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 ACCOUNTS NO TES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 CASH GENERATED BY OPERATIONS millions 2011 12 2010 11 Operating profit 807 698 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 32 31 Depreciation and amortisation 237 238 Impairment losses 7 14 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, investment property and intangible assets 7 4 Share-based compensation 32 21 Increase in inventories 94 238 Increase in trade and other receivables 28 10 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 65 107 Movement in provisions 24 21 Movement in post employment benets 20 19 Cash generated by operations 827 763 32 NET DEBT millions 2011 12 2010 11 Cash and cash equivalents 587 731 Bank overdrafts 102 95 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 485 636 Bank loans 98 104 Medium Term Notes and other xed term debt 478 504 Financing derivatives 67 56 Finance leases 64 70 Net debt cash 88 14 millions 2011 12 2010 11 Net cash debt at beginning of year 14 250 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 118 490 Repayment of bank loans 10 57 Repayment of Medium Term Notes and other xed term debt 30 696 Payment receipt on nancing derivatives 5 6 Capital element of finance lease rental payments 16 12 Cash ow movement in net debt 57 269 Exchange differences and other non-cash movements 45 5 Net debt cash at end of year 88 14 33 ACQUISITIONS During the year the Group acquired non-controlling interests in three of its B&Q China subsidiaries for a cash consideration of 8m.
In addition the Group acquired National Energy Services Limited in the UK for 2m.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 85 34 COMMITMENTS Operating lease commitments The Group leases various retail stores, ofces, warehouses and plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Lease arrangements under which rental payments are contingent upon sales, other performance or usage are not significant for the Group.
Undiscounted total future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: millions 2011 12 2010 11 Less than one year 434 411 One to five years 1,555 1,491 More than five years 2,867 2,975 4,856 4,877 The total of future minimum operating sublease receipts expected to be received is 240m 2010 11: 102m.
Capital commitments Capital commitments contracted but not provided for by the Group amount to 139m 2010 11: 83m.
35 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Kingsher plc has an obligation to provide a bank guarantee for 50m 2010 11: 50m to the liquidators of Kingsher International France Limited in the event that Kingsher plcs credit rating falls below BBB.
The obligation arises from an indemnity provided in June 2003 as a result of the demerger of Kesa Electricals.
In addition, the Group has arranged for certain bank guarantees to be provided to third parties in the ordinary course of business.
The total amount outstanding at 28 January 2012 is 42m 2010 11: 34m.
Of these guarantees, only 10m 2010 11: 10m would crystallise due to possible future events not wholly within the Groups control.
The Group is subject to claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business and provision is made where liabilities are considered likely to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice.
36 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS During the year, the Company and its subsidiaries carried out a number of transactions with related parties in the normal course of business and on an arms length basis.
The names of the related parties, the nature of these transactions and their total value are shown below: 2011 12 2010 11 Income Receivable Income Receivable millions expense payable expense payable Transactions with Kotas Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A. S. in which the Group holds a 50% interest Commission and other income 0.9 1.0 1.0 0.8 Transactions with Hornbach Holding A. G. in which the Group holds a 21% interest Commission and other income 3.8 0.3 3.6 0.4 Other expenses 0.3 0.2 Transactions with Creal S. A. in which the Group holds a 49% interest Provision of employee services 0.1 0.1 Commission and other income 7.0 1.5 6.7 1.6 Transactions with Kingsher Pension Scheme Provision of administrative services 1.1 1.4 0.1 Services are usually negotiated with related parties on a cost-plus basis.
Goods are sold or bought on the basis of the price lists in force with non-related parties.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No provisions have been made for bad and doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
The remuneration of key management personnel is given in note 8.
Other transactions with the Kingsher Pension Scheme are detailed in note 27.
