Financial statements 120 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Glossary ABB Gaming Machines Association of British Bookmakers.
Betting shops can operate machines with B2 content including old FOBT content and B3 content, as defined by the 2005 Adjusted Cost per Acquisition Gambling Act.
Total of all online and offline recruitment marketing spend including promotions and bonuses netted from revenue, Gross Win all affiliate expenses relating to deals where affiliates are paid Total customer stakes less customer winnings plus commission a one-off fee for each sign-up and all bonus costs except those i. e. the amount of money left behind by the customer.
relating to sign-ups from revenue share affiliates divided by MGD Machine Games Duty theaggregate number of real money sign-ups from non-affiliate From 1 February 2013, Machine Games Duty has replaced sources and the number of real money sign-ups through the dual tax regime of VAT and AMLD.
MGD is charged at affiliates that are paid a one-off fee.
20% of the gross profit generated from machine games.
AMLD amusement machine licence duty Net Revenue An annual duty payment relating to gaming machines.
Gross win less fair value adjustments e. g. fair value The rate ofduty payable varies according to machine category.
of reward points, free bets and promotional bonuses, Average Monthly Active Player Days VAT and associate income.
The sum of, for all Unique Active Players in the period, the number Odds On of days they have played during the period.
Ladbrokes Loyalty scheme which awards customers with Bet in Play a point for every amount staked Over the Counter.
These points Betting-in-Play allows bettors the opportunity to bet on outcomes are then accumulated and can be redeemed for free bets, during a live event.
odds enhancements or win bonuses.
Category B2 gaming machine Operating profit Gaming machine with maximum stake of 100 and maximum Profit before net finance expense and tax.
Operating margin Category B3 gaming machine Operating profit expressed as a percentage of net revenue.
Gaming machine with maximum stake of 1 and maximum OTC prize of 500.
Cost per Acquisition Real Money Sign-up Total of all online and offline marketing spend including A new player who has registered and deposited funds into an promotions and bonuses netted from revenue, all affiliate account with the Company.
To address the issues posed by shared expenses relating to deals where affiliates are paid a one-off wallets, customers are categorised between lines of business fee for each sign-up and all bonus costs except those relating according to where they first register on the gaming site.
to sign-ups from revenue share affiliates divided by the aggregate of the number of real money sign-ups from non-affiliate sources Responsible Gambling Trust and the number of real money sign-ups through affiliates that A charity that funds treatment, education and research related are paid a one-off fee.
EBITDA SIS Satellite Information Services Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Ladbrokes owns 23.4% of SIS, a leading supplier of television programming and sports data to licensed betting offices in the UK, Gambling Act Ireland, Isle of Man and Channel Islands.
The Gambling Act 2005 is the primary piece of legislation governing gambling regulations in Great Britain.
Unique Active Player A player who has contributed to rake and or placed a wager GamCare in the period.
A charitable organisation which provides counselling to those with gambling-related problems.
Yield per Unique Active Player Net Gaming Revenue divided by the number of Unique Active Gambling Commission Players in the period.
Set up under the Gambling Act 2005, the Gambling Commission regulates casinos, bingo, gaming machines and lotteries.
It is also responsible for the regulation of betting and remote gambling, aswell as helping to protect children and vulnerable people.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Designed and produced by MerchantCantos www.
com Printed by Pureprint Group using their environmental print technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, low waste, independently audited process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing process.
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral company and is certified to Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and registered to EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
Imperial House Imperial Drive Rayners Lane Harrow Middlesex HA2 7JW Telephone: 44 0 20 8868 8899 www.
