Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 164] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial Calendar 31 January 2013 AGM and Q1 Production Report 13 May 2013 Interim Results including Q2 Production Report 25 July 2013 Q3 Production Report 11 November 2013 Final Results including Q4 Production Report Please note that the Production Report for Q1 and Q3 incorporate the Companys Interim Management Statements for the respective half year.
Sixteen-Eight Memorial Fund Following the tragic events around our mine, Lonmin has committed, through the Sixteen-Eight Memorial Fund, to funding the education of all the children of the employees who lost their lives.
This funding will cover education costs from primary school to university.
The fund is currently at R5 million and is open to further donations from the public.
This account is governed by the Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr law firm and is held with: Nedbank 135 Rivonia Road Sandown Sandton Account number: 1979312176 Branch number: 197905 When making a contribution please use the reference number: 21941151 The paper used in this report is produced using virgin wood fibre from well managed forests in Brazil, Sweden and Germany with FSC certification.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and manufactured at a mill that has been awarded the ISO14001 and EMAS certificates for environmental management.
The use of the FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well-managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
Fulmar Colour is FSC certified, PEFC certified and ISO 14001 certified showing that it is committed to all round excellence and improving environmental performance is an important part of this strategy.
We aim to reduce at source the effect our operations have on the environment, and are committed to continual improvement, prevention of pollution and compliance with any legislation or industry standards.
Fulmar Colour is a Carbon Neutral Printing Company.
Portrait photography by Kevin Rudham www.
co. za Printed by Fulmar Colour Designed and produced by MAGEE www.
co. uk Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Lonmin Charter We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals.
We create value by the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals.
We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way.
Our Mission We are successful Our Values when To grow and build our portfolio Zero Harm Our employees live and work of high quality assets.
safely and experience the We are committed to zero harm to people and the personal satisfaction that To deliver the requirements comes with high performance environment.
of the South African broadand recognition.
based socio-economic Mining Integrity, Honesty & Trust Charter and we welcome the Our shareholders are realising We are committed ethical opportunity to transform our a superior total return on their people who do what we say business.
investment and support our we will do.
To build a value-based Transparency culture, which is founded Open, honest communication The communities in which we on safe work, continuous imoperate value our relationships.
and free sharing of information.
provement, common standards We are meeting our commitRespect For Each Other and procedures, community Embracing our diversity ments to all business partners involvement and one that and our suppliers, contractors, enriched by openness, rewards employees for high sharing, trust, teamwork partners and customers performance.
High Performance Stretching our individual and team capabilities to achieve innovative and superior outcomes.
Employee Self-Worth To enhance the quality of life for our employees and their families and promote self esteem.
Roger Phillimore Ian Farmer Chairman Chief Executive May 2009 www.
com Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2012 Annual Report and Accounts For the year ended 30 September 2012 Lonmin Plc 2012 www.
com Lonmin Plc Registered in England, Company Number 103002 Registered Office: 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL
