Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 160] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Shareholder Information Lonmins shares are quoted on the London and Johannesburg stock exchanges and ADRs representing Lonmin shares are also traded in an OTC market in the USA.
UK share register information All holdings of the Companys shares are maintained on the Companys UK share register, with the exception of those held on the South African branch register.
The register is administered by Equiniti Registrars formerly known as Lloyds TSB Registrars.
You can access information about your shareholding including balance movements and dividend payments on Shareview, an electronic communications service provided by Equiniti.
It also allows you to change your registered address details, set up a dividend mandate, vote at general meetings and register to receive Company communications electronically.
To register for this free service, visit www.
co. uk and follow the simple instructions.
You will need your shareholder reference number, which can be found on your share certificate, dividend tax voucher or proxy card.
South African branch register information The South African branch register is administered by Link Market Services South Africa Pty Ltd.
Contact details for both the UK and South African registrars can be found in Corporate Information on page 162.
Dividends No dividends will have been recommended or declared for the year ended 30 September 2012.
Further information for UK resident, ordinarily resident and domiciled individual shareholders The following statements do not constitute tax advice and are intended as a general guide only.
UK Capital Gains Tax For UK Capital Gains Tax purposes, shareholders disposing of shares in either Lonmin Plc or Lonrho Africa Plc after 7 May 1998, who held shares prior to that date, should apportion the base cost of their original Lonmin Plc shares between the two companies.
Based on the closing share prices on 7 May 1998 of Lonmin Plc and Lonrho Africa Plc, this apportionment would be 80.498% for Lonmin Plc and 19.502% for Lonrho Africa Plc.
The Companys capital reduction was completed on 22 February 2002.
For the purposes of assessing any liability to capital gains tax, UK shareholders should apportion 13.33% of the base cost of their original shareholding to the capital reduction and the balance to their new holding of ordinary shares of $1 each.
The base cost of Lonmin Plc ordinary shares, for shareholders who held shares prior to that date, at 31 March 1982 was 38.9 pence as adjusted for subsequent capitalisation issues, 155.6 pence as adjusted for the consolidation of the Companys shares on 24 April 1998, 125.3 pence as adjusted for the fide-merger of Lonrho Africa Plc on 7 May 1998, 266.1 pence as adjusted for shareholders who took up their full entitlement of ordinary shares in the Rights Issue in June 2009 and 185 pence as adjusted for shareholders who took up their full entitlement of ordinary shares in the Rights Issue in November 2012, assuming in each case that shares have been held continuously by the relevant shareholder throughout the period.
The precise tax analysis for each shareholder may depend on the shareholder's own position, for example, shareholders who did not take up their full entitlement in the Rights Issues but who instead sold some or all of their rights may be required to adjust their base cost in their Lonmin Plc ordinary shares and the base costs provided above are indicative only.
Shareholders should seek independent tax advice as to their liability for capital gains tax in the event that they sell their Lonmin Plc ordinary shares.
Lonmin Corporate Individual Savings Account ISAs Investec Wealth & Investment Limited offers the Lonmin Corporate Stocks & Shares ISA for investment in Lonmin Plc shares.
UK registered shareholders may subscribe to the Lonmin Corporate ISA up to a maximum of 11,280 for the current tax year 2012 13 the maximum for the forthcoming tax year 2013 14 has yet to be announced by HMRC in cash to purchase Lonmin Plc shares or by direct transfer of eligible employee shares within 90 days of the release from an eligible Sharesave Scheme up to a maximum value of 11,280 for the current tax year 2012 13 and a maximum value yet to be announced by HMRC for the forthcoming tax year 2013 14.
Contact details can be found in Corporate Information on page 162.
Investec Wealth & Investment Limited is regulated by the FSA.
This is not a recommendation that shareholders should subscribe to the ISA.
The advantages of holding shares in an ISA vary according to individual circumstances and shareholders who are in any doubt should consult their financial adviser.
ShareGift Lonmin is proud to support ShareGift, an independent charity share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered charity number 1052686.
Those shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the value of which make them uneconomic to sell, can donate the shares to ShareGift who will sell them and donate the proceeds to a wide range of charities.
Further information about ShareGift can be obtained from their website at www.
org and a ShareGift transfer form can be downloaded from the Companys website.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 161] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Warning to shareholders A survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that an increasing number of shareholders of UK listed companies are being targeted by individuals purporting to be legitimate brokers or financial advisors.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports on the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and make a record of any other information they give you, e. g. telephone number, address, etc.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved.
The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and any approach from such organisations should be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action can be considered.
If you deal with any unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an on-line form at www.
uk doing regulated law alerts form.
shtml or, if you do not have access to the internet, on 0845 606 1234.
Inform the registrars on the relevant telephone numbers listed on the following page.
They are not able to investigate such incidents themselves but will record the details and pass them on to the FSA.
