Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 108] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies Reporting entity Lonmin Plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The address of the Companys registered office is 4 Grosvenor Place, London, SW1X 7YL.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 30 September 2012 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in equity accounted investments.
Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs and approved by the Directors on this basis.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 November 2012.
Basis of measurement The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following: Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Available for sale assets are measured at fair value.
Liabilities for cash settled share-based payment arrangements are measured at fair value.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Going concern In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The financial performance of the Group is dependent upon the wider economic environment in which the Group operates.
Factors exist which are outside the control of management which can have a significant impact on the business, specifically, volatility in the Rand US Dollar exchange rate and PGM commodity prices.
Prior to the Events at Marikana, the Group had embarked on a review of its growth strategy, future production profile and capital investment programme as a result of prevailing subdued short-term demand for PGMs.
Against this backdrop, the Events at Marikana resulted in a material reduction in mine production at a time when the Group was not well positioned to absorb the resulting financial shock.
This necessitated a further review of the strategy and capital structure.
To this end, the Board has concluded that reducing capital expenditure in the near term and raising additional equity, in conjunction with a revision to bank facilities will result the appropriate capital structure and retain the Groups flexibility as regards financial risks.
As noted in note 32, the Company entered into an agreement with Citigroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank Plc, J. P. Morgan Securities Plc and Standard Bank Plc to fully underwrite approximately $800 million Rights Issue.
In conjunction with the Rights Issue, the Company has negotiated certain amendments to the terms of the Groups existing debt facilities which are detailed in note 18.
The Amended Facilities will only come into effect if the Resolution is passed and the Rights Issue is completed.
It is intended that US$300 million of the proceeds of the Proposed Rights Issue will be used to prepay and cancel the US Dollar Term Loan and that the terms of the Groups existing US Dollar Revolving Credit Facility and Rand Facilities will be amended.
The principal amendments to these facilities are to remove the net debt Underlying EBITDA and Underlying EBITDA net interest covenants and replace them with covenants relating to net debt and tangible net worth with caps placed on capital expenditure at certain debt levels.
The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for a period in excess of 12 months and have concluded that the capital structure, after a successful Rights Issue and debt facilities amendments, provides sufficient head room to cushion against downside operational risks and minimises the risk of breaching new covenants.
The Rights Issue is conditional upon the Resolution being passed by shareholders at the General Meeting, on Admission of the New Shares to the premium listing segment of the Official List, Admission of the Nil Paid Rights to trading on the LSE, Admission of the Letters of Allocation and New Shares to trading on the JSE and on the Underwriting Agreement becoming unconditional.
Therefore, if the Resolution is not passed at the General Meeting or any of these other events do not occur, the Rights Issue will not proceed.
If the Right Issue does not proceed the Amended Facilities will not come into effect.
Until such time as any subsequent renegotiation is concluded, the existing facilities will continue to apply.
In the event that the Group does not raise new equity and agree amendments to its existing bank facilities, in light of: the continuing impact on the Group of a loss of production arising from the Events at Marikana, as it seeks to ramp up production following the work stoppages: the sensitivity of the Groups profitability and cash flows to adverse movements in PGM prices and the Rand US Dollar exchange rate: the increased cost of labour following the 18 September wage agreement: and the ongoing risks of future labour disputes and the associated increased cost of labour and social provision.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 109] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Going concern continued The Directors believe that the Group may breach either or both of the Underlying EBITDA net debt and Underlying EBITDA interest expense covenants in the Groups US Dollar Facilities and Rand Facilities when they are tested at the next covenant test, which is due to be carried out in relation to the Groups interim results for the six months ending 31 March 2013, and or at a subsequent test date.
A breach of any of the Groups covenants when they are tested at any test date could result in a significant proportion of the Groups borrowings becoming repayable immediately.
In that event, borrowings under the Groups debt instruments that contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions may become payable on demand and the Group may not have sufficient funds to repay all of its debts.
The need for shareholder approval of the planned Rights Issue represents a material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt about the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern such that the they may be unable to realise their assets and discharge their liabilities in the normal course of business.
Nevertheless, based on the Groups expectation that the conditions of the Rights Issue will be met, in addition to the Groups current trading, forecasts, and further management actions which would be taken whilst the existing financial covenants remain in place, the Directors believe that the Group will continue to comply with its financial covenants and accordingly have formed a judgement that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Therefore, these financial statements do not include any adjustments that would result if the going concern basis on preparation is inappropriate.
Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company and its principal operations.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
The primary areas in which estimates and judgements are applied are as follows: Impairment of assets The carrying value of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment for which the key assumptions, and management approach for determining these, are described in the policy on Impairment Non-financial assets.
Reserves and resources Reserves and resources are determined by Competent Persons and audited bi-annually according to the South African code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves.
The determination of resources and reserves requires a wide variety of assessments regarding the geology of the ore body, the mining plans and economic viability which are all subject to inherent uncertainties.
Changes in proven and probable reserves have a direct impact on depreciation rates applied to mining assets which are calculated on a units of production basis.
Inventory Inventory is held in a wide variety of forms across the value chain reflecting the stage of refinement.
Prior to production as final metal the inventory is always contained within a carrier material.
As such inventory is typically sampled and assays taken to determine the metal content and how this is split by metal.
Measurement and sampling accuracy can vary quite significantly depending on the nature of the vessels and the state of the material.
Management judgement, therefore, is also applied.
Rehabilitation costs The nature of the mining and processing operations of the Group gives rise to environmental obligations which are reflected in the rehabilitation provision.
The level of provision needs to reflect the present value of the future remediation costs.
Estimating the future remediation costs involves significant judgments including for example the local geography and geology, whether contamination has occurred and, if so, the nature of contaminants involved and the remediation approach to be taken and the likely costs which would be incurred.
Such judgements are made using advice from expert advisors.
In addition, the outflows in respect of rehabilitation are generally far into the future.
Judgement is therefore also involved in estimating the timing of the cash flow and in the discounting factors to determine the present value.
Derivative financial instruments Judgement and estimation involved in the valuation of derivative financial instruments is considered in detail in note 21g.
New standards and amendments in the year There were no new standards, interpretations or amendments to standards issued and effective for the period which materially impacted the Groups financial statements.
com Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 110] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Change in accounting policy The Group has amended its accounting policy for Stripping Costs such that it is now consistent with the principles set out in IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production of a Surface Mine.
IFRIC 20, which has yet to be adopted by the EU, requires that stripping costs incurred which provide improved access to the ore be recognised as a non-current asset stripping activity asset when certain criteria is met.
The application of this change of accounting did not have a material impact on the amounts reported for the current and prior years.
Significant accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements, and have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are taken into account.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition at which date control commences or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate, at which date control ceases.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
Associates An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method and are initially measured at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the income and expenses and equity movements of any associates, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the carrying amount of that interest including any long-term investments is reduced to nil and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the investee.
Joint ventures JVs The Group undertakes a number of business activities through JVs.
JVs are established through contractual arrangements which result in the strategic, financial and operating policies of the venture being jointly controlled.
Such joint ventures are treated as jointly controlled entities and are accounted for using the equity method.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and joint ventures are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies of the Group entities using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the financial reporting date are retranslated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the financial reporting date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the historic rate.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income statement, except for differences arising on the retranslation of available for sale financial assets and equity accounted investments which are recognised directly in equity.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Revenue Revenue is derived from the sale of metal inventories and is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
A sale is recognised when: the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer this is generally when title and insurance risk have passed to the customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location : recovery of the consideration is probable: the associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably: there is no continuing management involvement with the goods, and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
In certain circumstances, for example sometimes in the sale of part-processed material, metal prices at the point of sale may be provisional.
The impact of changes in metal prices to the point of settlement are reflected through revenue and receivables.
All third-party metal sales are recognised as revenue.
The Group does not credit capitalised development costs with income arising from production in development phases but rather recognises such metal as inventory see Inventories policy.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 111] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Finance income and expenses Finance income comprises interest on funds invested including available for sale financial assets, dividend income, gains on the disposal of available for sale financial assets net of costs of disposal, expected returns on pension scheme assets, and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principle outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Groups rights to receive payment have been established.
Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, bank fees including bank fees which are capitalised and amortised over the life of the facility, unwinding of discount on provisions, interest costs of pension scheme liabilities, and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method except for borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, or construction of an asset.
Such costs are capitalised to property, plant and equipment or intangible assets during the period of construction or development provided that future economic benefit is considered probable.
Capitalised interest is shown as interest paid in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
The Companys accounting policies in respect of the hybrid financial instrument issued to it by Shanduka, its BEE partner, are detailed in the financial instruments section.
Expenditure Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received.
Research and development Research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure which meets the recognition criteria for an intangible asset under IAS 38 Intangible Assets, is capitalised and then amortised over the useful economic life of the developed asset, otherwise it is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Borrowing costs related to the development of qualifying assets are capitalised.
Capitalised development expenditure is recognised at cost, and subsequently carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, where it can be demonstrated that the expenditure will result in completion of an asset which, when available for use or sale, will result in future economic benefit arising for the Group.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred on the exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves and includes costs relating to the following: acquisition of exploration rights: conducting geological studies: exploratory drilling and sampling and evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource as well as capitalised interest.
Expenditure incurred on activities that precede exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources, being all expenditure incurred prior to securing the legal rights to explore an area, is expensed immediately.
Expenditure towards in-house exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves for each area of interest is expensed until it is considered probable that future economic benefit will arise through further exploration and subsequent development of the area of interest or, alternatively, by its sale.
Pre-feasibility studies involve the review of one or more potential development options with the aim of moving forward to the more detailed feasibility study stage.
Expenditure related to such studies is expensed in full as there is insufficient certainty that future economic benefit will be generated at this stage of a project.
Expenditure relating to feasibility studies which support the technical feasibility and commercial viability of an area is capitalised under exploration and evaluation assets.
Where a feasibility study reaches a favourable conclusion, accumulated exploration and evaluation costs are transferred to mineral rights within intangibles or capital work in progress within property, plant and equipment as appropriate on commencement of the development phase of the related project.
Where the feasibility study reaches an adverse conclusion, any previously capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is written off immediately.
Expenditure on purchased exploration and evaluation assets is capitalised at fair value at the time of purchase.
Subsequent expenditure may be capitalised at cost.
Carrying values are subject to impairment reviews as per the Groups policy.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure is classified as property, plant and equipment or intangible depending on the nature of the expenditure.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is a class of assets which are not available for use.
Therefore amortisation is not provided on such assets.
Mineral mining rights, which are obtained following the completion of a feasibility study, are not included within exploration and evaluation expenditure.
They are capitalised at cost under IAS 38 Intangible Assets and are amortised on a units of production basis over the life of the mine.
com Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 112] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Share-based payments From the grant date the fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of share appreciation rights, which are settled in cash, is recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date.
Any changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised as a personnel expense in the income statement.
The fair value of each option or share appreciation right is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model or a Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of the award.
Market related performance conditions are reflected in the fair value of the share.
Non-market related performance conditions are allowed for using a separate assumption about the number of awards expected to vest: the final charge made reflects the numbers actually vested on the basis that non-market conditions are met.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes in accordance with local regulations.
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate legal entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they are due.
Taxation Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax to be paid or recovered on the taxable income for the year, using the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date during the periods being reported upon, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax as directed by IAS 12 Income Taxes is recognised in respect of certain temporary differences identified at the financial reporting date.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
A deferred tax liability is recognised in a business combination in respect of any identified intangible asset representing the difference between the fair value of the acquired asset and its tax base.
Recognition of a deferred tax liability in respect of such a difference gives rise to a corresponding increase in goodwill recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax Group where the entities have the right to settle current tax liabilities net.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising in relation to investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Business combinations and goodwill Subject to the transitional relief in IFRS 1, all business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010 For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree: plus the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
On a  basis, the Group elects to measure non-controlling interests either at its fair value or at its proportionate interest in the recognised amount of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree at the acquisition date.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 113] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Acquisitions between 1 October 2004 and 1 January 2010 For acquisitions between 1 October 2004 and 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in the recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
When the excess was negative, a bargain purchase gain was recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection with business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition.
Acquisitions prior to 1 October 2004 date of transition to IFRSs IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full requirements of Adopted IFRSs in the transition period.
The Group and Company elected not to restate business combinations that took place prior to 1 October 2004.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 October 2004, goodwill is included at 1 October 2004 on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP which was broadly comparable save that only separable intangibles were recognised and goodwill was amortised.
On transition amortisation of goodwill ceased as required by IFRS 1.
Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests that do not result in a change of control are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
The adjustments to non-controlling interests are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary.
Any difference between the price paid or received and the amount by which non-controlling interests are adjusted is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
Prior to the adoption of IAS 27 2008, goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of non-controlling interests in a subsidiary, which represented the excess of the cost of the additional investment over the carrying amount of the interest in the net assets acquired at the date of the transaction.
Goodwill Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
In respect of equity accounted investees, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the investee.
Intangible assets Intangible assets, other than goodwill, acquired by the Group have finite useful lives and are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Where amortisation is charged on these assets, the expense is taken to the income statement through operating costs.
Amortisation of mineral rights is provided on a units of production basis over the remaining life of mine to residual value 20 to 40 years.
All other intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives subject to a maximum of 20 years and are tested for impairment at each reporting date when there is an indication of a possible impairment.
Property, plant and equipment Recognition Property, plant and equipment is included in the statement of financial position at cost and subsequently less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for its intended use, and any other costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located.
Cost may also include transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Borrowing costs incurred on the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets are capitalised to the cost of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds on disposal with the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and are recognised net in the income statement.
Componentisation When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items major components of property, plant and equipment.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised upon replacement.
The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
com Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 114] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Capital work in progress Development costs are capitalised and transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment when available for use.
Capitalised development costs include expenditure incurred to develop new operations and to expand existing capacity.
Costs include interest capitalised during the period up to the level that the qualifying assets permit.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided on a straight-line or units of production basis as appropriate over their expected useful lives or the remaining life of mine, if shorter, to residual value.
The life of mine is based on proven and probable reserves.
The expected useful lives of the major categories of property, plant and equipment are as follows: Method Rate Shafts and underground Units of production 2.5% 5.0% per annum 20 40 years Metallurgical Straight line 2.5% 7.1% per annum 14 40 years Infrastructure Straight line 2.5% 2.9% per annum 35 40 years Other plant and equipment Straight line 2.5% 50.0% per annum 2 40 years No depreciation is provided on surface mining land which has a continuing value and capital work in progress.
Residual values and useful lives are re-assessed annually and if necessary changes are accounted for prospectively.
Impairment Non-financial assets excluding inventories and deferred tax The Groups principal non-financial assets excluding inventories and deferred tax assets are property, plant and equipment, intangibles and goodwill associated with exploration and evaluation, mining and processing activities.
For the purpose of assessing recoverable amount, these assets are grouped into cash generating units CGUs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
At each financial reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the assets is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment if any.
Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment annually regardless of whether an indication of impairment exists.
Items of property, plant and equipment that are not in use are reviewed annually for impairment on a fair value less costs to sell basis.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense.
Value in use In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows, based on the most up to date business forecasts or studies for exploration and evaluation assets, are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the assets for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
The key assumptions contained within the business forecasts and managements approach to determine appropriate values are set out below: Key Assumption Management Approach PGM prices Projections are determined through a combination of the views of the Directors, market estimates and forecasts and other sector information.
Production volume Projections are based on the capacity and expected operational capabilities of the mines, the grade of the ore, and the efficiencies of processing and refining operations.
Production costs Projections are based on current cost adjusted for expected cost changes as well as giving consideration to specific issues such as the difficulty in mining particular sections of the reef and the mining method employed.
Capital expenditure requirements Projections are based on the operational plan, which sets out the long-term plan of the business and is approved by the Board.
Foreign currency exchange rates Spot rates as at the end of the reporting period are applied.
Reserves and resources of the CGU Projections are determined through surveys performed by Competent Persons and the views of the Directors of the Company.
Management uses past experience and assessment of future conditions, together with external sources of information in order to assign values to the key assumptions.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 115] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Management has projected cash flows over the life of the relevant mining operation which is significantly greater than 5 years.
Projecting cash flows over a period longer than 5 years is in line with industry practice and is supported by the Groups history of the resources expected to be found being proven to exist.
Management does not apply a growth rate because a detailed life of mine plan is used to forecast future production volumes.
For each CGU a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate is used for impairment testing.
The key factors affecting the risk premium applied are the relevant stage of the development of the asset in the CGU extensions to existing operations having significantly lower risk than evaluation projects for example, the level of knowledge and consistency of the ore body and sovereign risk.
The rate applied to goodwill in the Marikana CGU for 2012 was 11.6% real.
The rate applied for the exploration and evaluation asset in the Akanani CGU for 2012 was 14.3% nominal.
In preparing the financial statements, management has considered whether a reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which management has based its determination of the recoverable amounts of the CGUs would cause the units carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts.
For the Marikana CGU, because of the forecast for long-term PGM prices and the very significant reserves and resources in the ground, management do not believe that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would lead to impairment.
The Akanani CGU has been impaired at year end, and as such an adverse change to any of the key assumptions will lead to further impairment.
Fair value less costs to sell Fair value less costs to sell has been determined by reference to the best information available to reflect the amount that the Group could receive for the CGU in an arms length transaction.
When comparable market transactions or public valuations of similar assets exist these are used as a source of evidence.
However, the Group believes that mining CGUs tend to be unique and have their value determined largely by the nature of the underlying ore body.
The fair value therefore is typically determined by calculating the value of the CGU using an appropriate valuation methodology such as calculating the post-tax net present value using a discounted cash flow forecast as described in value in use.
Exploration and evaluation assets Under IFRS 6 exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount of the assets may exceed their recoverable amount.
When this occurs, any impairment loss is immediately charged to the income statement.
Akanani exploration and evaluation asset The exploration and evaluation assets at Akanani CGU include the exploration and evaluation expenditure and goodwill.
The Akanani CGU is currently at prefeasibility study level and value in use calculations for the CGU are calculated using cash flows derived from the results of the latest study.
Given the Akanani CGU is at the exploration and evaluation stage it is reasonably possible that the completion of that stage will result in changes to indicated and inferred reserves of PGM ounces and a further refinement of capital and operating expenses.
In addition the quantity of resources is also sensitive to the longterm metal prices.
Adverse changes in reserves and resources, capital and operating expenses, and long-term metal prices might cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying amount of the CGU.
Goodwill The recoverable amount of goodwill, as allocated to relevant CGUs, has been tested for impairment annually, or when such events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Impairment losses within a CGU are allocated first to goodwill and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
Reversal of impairment At each financial reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that a previously recognised impairment loss has reversed.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is only reversed to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation and amortisation, had the impairment not been made.
A reversal of impairment is recognised as income immediately except for previously impaired goodwill which is never reversed.
Impairment financial assets including receivables A financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence that it is impaired.
A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss event had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that can be estimated reliably.
com Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 116] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Interest on the impaired asset continues to be recognised through the unwinding of the discount.
When a subsequent event causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.
Leases Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset as determined at the inception of the lease.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included within bank loans and other borrowings, with the amount payable within twelve months included in bank overdrafts and loans within current liabilities.
The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect the constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis.
Assets held for sale When an assets carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction, to take place within twelve months of the financial reporting date, rather than through continuing use it is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
Immediately prior to sale the assets are remeasured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost which includes the applicable proportion of production overheads and net realisable value.
PGMs inventory is valued by allocating costs, based on the joint cost of production, apportioned according to the relative sales value of each of the PGMs produced.
By-product metals are valued at the incremental cost of production from the point of split-off from the PGM processing stream.
In the process of initially developing the ore reserve it is common that metal is produced, although not at normal operating levels.
Development is split into different phases according to the mining method used with differing levels of production expected in each phase.
The Group recognises the metal produced in each development phase in inventory with an appropriate proportion of cost as operating costs.
This allocation is calculated by reference to the produced volumes in relation to the total volumes expected from the development.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as the bank overdraft is repayable on demand and forms an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation costs are provided in full based on estimates of the future costs to be incurred, calculated on a discounted basis.
As the provision is recognised, it is either capitalised as part of the cost of the related mine or written off to the income statement if utilised within one year.
Where costs are capitalised the impact of such costs on the income statement is spread over the life of mine through the accretion of the discount of the provision and the depreciation over a units of production basis of the increased costs of the mining assets.
Provisions Provision is made when a present or legal obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Financial instruments The Groups principal financial instruments other than derivatives comprise bank loans, available for sale financial assets, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables and short-term deposits.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not at fair value through the income statement, any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition non-derivative financial instruments are measured as described below.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 117] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
These also comprise bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand, for the purpose of the cash flow statement only.
Investments are classified into loans and receivables, held-to-maturity and available for sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired, the nature of the investments and whether the investment is quoted or not.
The classification of investments is determined at initial recognition.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables and investments classified as held-to-maturity are carried at amortised cost and gains or losses are recognised in the income statement when the investments are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
The Company is the holder of a financial instrument issued by its BEE partner, Shanduka.
The loan component of the hybrid instrument was recognised initially at fair value and thereafter will be held at amortised cost.
The loan is denominated in Sterling.
The financial instrument was translated to preference shares on 31 March 2011.
The related dividends accumulate on a month to month basis based on the same rates as the interest rates of the original financial instrument.
Available for sale financial assets The Groups investments in equity securities and certain debt securities are classified as available for sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at fair value and any changes are recognised directly in equity except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items, foreign exchange gains and losses.
When an investment is written off or sold, any cumulative gains or losses in equity are recycled into the income statement.
Fair value is determined by using the market price at the financial reporting date where this is available.
Where market price is not available the Directors best estimates of market value are used.
Bank loans Bank loans are recorded at amortised cost, net of transaction costs incurred, and are adjusted to amortise transaction costs over the term of the loan.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are principally used by the Group to manage exposure to market risks from treasury operations and commodity price risks on by-products.
The principal derivative instruments used are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and forward price agreements on by-products.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the statement of financial position at fair value and then remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Attributable costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Hedging derivatives are classified on inception as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges.
On initial designation of the derivative as the hedging instrument, the Group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, including the risk management objectives and strategy in undertaking the hedge transaction and the hedged risk, together with the methods that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship.
The Group makes an assessment, both at the inception of the hedge relationship as well as on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments are expected to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in fair value or cash flows of the respective hedged items attributable to the hedged risk, and whether the actual results of each hedge are within a range of 80 125 %.
For a cash flow hedge of a forecast transaction, the transaction should be highly probable to occur and should present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect reported profit or loss.
When a derivative is designated as the hedging instrument in a hedge of the variability in cash flows attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction that could affect profit or loss, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the hedging reserve in equity.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The fair value gains and losses accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the same period that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the designation is revoked, then hedge accounting is revoked prospectively.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price, i. e. the fair value of the consideration given or received, unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument i. e. without modification or repackaging or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets.
When transaction price provides the best evidence of fair value at initial recognition, the financial instrument is initially measured at the transaction price and any difference between this price and the value initially obtained from a valuation model is subsequently recognised in profit or loss on a straight line basis over the life of the instrument but not later than when the valuation is supported wholly by observable market data or the transaction is closed out.
com Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 118] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued The financial instrument issued by Shanduka to the Company contains a derivative component which has a fair value determined by a valuation model which requires unobservable management assumptions to be made.
As such the derivative falls within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy and, at recognition, no day one gains can be made.
Hence, the unobservable assumptions have been adjusted downwards to eliminate the day one gain.
These adjustments will only be amended post recognition to the extent that a change occurs in factors which market participants would consider in setting a price.
Segmental reporting The core principle of IFRS 8 Operating Segments is that an entity shall disclose information to enable users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business activities in which it engages and the economic environments in which it operates.
On this basis Lonmin has three reportable operating segments being: PGM Operations which comprise operational mines and processing facilities which are located in South Africa.
Evaluation which relates to the Akanani asset which is located in South Africa and is in the evaluation stage.
Exploration this essentially relates to the costs of exploration projects which have the objective of identifying PGM deposits which can be commercially realised and which can occur anywhere in the world.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets other than goodwill, and any capitalised interest.
EU endorsed IFRS not yet applied by the Group IFRSs issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU but not applied by the Group in these financial statements are not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group when they are applied.
2 Segmental analysis The Group distinguishes between three reportable operating segments being the Platinum Group Metals PGM Operations segment, the Evaluation segment and the Exploration segment.
The PGM Operations segment comprises the activities involved in the mining and processing of PGMs, together with associated base metals, which are carried out entirely in South Africa.
These operations are integrated and designed to support the process for extracting and refining PGMs from underground.
PGMs move through each stage of the process and undergo successive levels of refinement which result in fully refined metals.
The Chief Executive Officer, who performs the role of Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM, views the PGM Operations segment as a single whole for the purposes of financial performance monitoring and assessment and does not make resource allocations based on margin, costs or cash flows incurred at each separate stage of the process.
In addition, the CODM makes his decisions for running the business on a day to day basis using the physical operating statistics generated by the business as these summarise the operating performance of the entire segment.
The Evaluation segment covers the evaluation through pre-feasibility of the economic viability of newly discovered PGM deposits.
Currently all of the evaluation projects are based in South Africa.
The Exploration segment covers the activities involved in the discovery or identification of new PGM deposits.
This activity occurs on a worldwide basis.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 119] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 2 Segmental analysis continued No operating segments have been aggregated.
Operating segments have consistently adopted the consolidated basis of accounting and there are no differences in measurement applied.
Other covers mainly the results and investment activities of the corporate Head Office.
The only intersegment transactions involve the provision of funding between segments and any associated interest.
Year ended 30 September 2012 PGM Operations Evaluation Exploration Intersegment Segment Segment Segment Other Adjustments Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue external sales by product : Platinum 1,064 1,064 Palladium 212 212 Gold 31 31 Rhodium 152 152 Ruthenium 17 17 Iridium 39 39 PGMs 1,515 1,515 Nickel 55 55 Copper 16 16 Chrome 28 28 1,614 1,614 i Underlying : ii EBITDA LBITDA 202 3 4 8 193 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 126 126 ii Operating profit loss 76 3 4 8 67 Finance income 5 14 14 5 Finance expenses 15 18 14 19 Share of profit of equity accounted investments 2 2 4 Profit loss before taxation 68 3 4 10 57 Income tax expense 39 39 Underlying profit loss after taxation 29 3 4 10 18 iii Special items note 3 103 481 16 568 Loss profit after taxation 74 478 4 6 550 iv Total assets 3,862 269 1,493 1,001 4,623 v Total liabilities 2,094 188 46 551 1,001 1,878 Net assets 1,768 81 46 942 2,745 Share of net assets of equity accounted investments 42 115 157 Additions to property, plant, equipment and intangibles 439 5 444 Material non-cash items share-based payments 13 1 14 www.
com Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 120] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 2 Segmental analysis continued Year ended 30 September 2011 PGM Operations Evaluation Exploration Intersegment Segment Segment Segment Other Adjustments Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue external sales by product : Platinum 1,275 1,275 Palladium 280 280 Gold 29 29 Rhodium 220 220 Ruthenium 32 32 Iridium 32 32 PGMs 1,868 1,868 Nickel 88 88 Copper 21 21 Chrome 15 15 1,992 1,992 i Underlying : ii EBITDA LBITDA 425 6 1 3 433 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 122 122 ii Operating profit loss 303 6 1 3 311 Finance income 8 7 10 5 Finance expenses 20 10 10 Share of profit of equity accounted investments 9 9 Profit loss before taxation 300 6 1 10 315 Income tax expense credit 60 4 56 Underlying profit loss after taxation 240 10 1 10 259 iii Special items note 3 80 18 62 Profit after taxation 320 10 1 8 321 iv Total assets 3,541 866 1 1,206 752 4,862 v Total liabilities 1,587 306 42 338 752 1,521 Net assets 1,954 560 41 868 3,341 Share of net assets of equity accounted investments 48 127 175 Additions to property, plant, equipment and intangibles 486 23 509 Material non-cash items share-based payments 17 17 Revenue by destination is analysed by geographical area below: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2012 2011 $m $m The Americas 319 414 Asia 485 557 Europe 508 616 South Africa 302 405 1,614 1,992 The Groups revenues are all derived from the PGM Operations segment.
This segment has two major customers who contributed 49% and 29% of revenue in the year 2011 59% and 27%.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 121] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 2 Segmental analysis continued Metal sales prices are based on market prices which are denominated in US Dollars.
The majority of sales are also invoiced in US Dollars with the exception of certain sales in South Africa which are invoiced in South African Rand based on exchange rates determined in accordance with the contractual arrangements.
Non-current assets, excluding financial instruments, by geographical area are shown below: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2012 2011 $m $m South Africa 3,547 3,847 Europe 1 1 3,548 3,848 Footnotes: i.
Underlying results are based on reported results excluding the effect of special items as defined in note 3. ii.
EBITDA LBITDA and operating profit loss are the key profit measures used by management.
The impairment of Akanani to the value of $602 million 2011 $nil is included under special items in the segmental analysis.
Akanani forms part of the Evaluation segment.
The assets under Other include the HDSA receivable of $381 million 2011 $351 million and intercompany receivables of $707 million 2011 $742 million.
"v. The liabilities under ""Other"" include non-current borrowings of $500 million 2011 $300 million."
3 Special items Special items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the financial performance achieved by the Group and for consistency with prior years.
2012 2011 $m $m Operating loss: 769 4 i Costs relating to illegal work stoppage Idle fixed production costs 120 Contract costs 29 Payroll costs 7 Other costs 3 ii Capital raising costs 5 iii Impairment of property, plant and equipment 2 2 iv Restructuring and reorganisation costs 2 v Costs incurred relating to disputed prospecting rights 5 vi Impairment of exploration and evaluation asset 602 vii Impairment of available for sale financial assets 6 viii Share of impairment recognised in investment in associate 10 Net finance income expenses : 30 18 ix Interest accrued from HDSA receivable 16 15 ix Exchange gain loss on HDSA receivable 14 3 Movement in fair value of HDSA derivative note 21g 24 x Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges 6 Loss on special items before taxation 755 22 Taxation related to special items note 7 187 84 Special loss gain before non-controlling interests 568 62 Non-controlling interests 143 15 Special loss gain for the year attributable to equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc 425 47 Footnotes: i.
Fixed production overheads incurred during the illegal strike period for which there was no associated production output and costs arising directly as a result of the strike action have been classified as special items.
The total of these strike related costs amounted to $159 million.
Idle fixed production costs incurred during the strike period amounted to $120 million.
Costs relating to contractors not being able to fulfil their obligations as a result of the disruption amounted to $29 million.
The negotiated wage settlement included an amount to be paid to employees on their return to work which totalled $7 million.
Other costs related to the strike include additional security, media coordination and consumables.
com Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 122] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 3 Special items continued ii.
Capital raising costs of $5 million were incurred prior to the strike disruption.
These costs related to exploratory work and capital raising initiatives in various debt markets.
The impairment charge to write down employee housing processed in 2011 has been reversed during the year under review following a reassessment of the realisable value of the houses.
During the year ended 30 September 2012 the Group incurred $nil 2011 - $2 million in transition costs in relocating corporate functions from the London office to South Africa.
v. Costs were incurred to compensate Holgoun Investment Holdings Proprietary Limited, Keyshas parent company, for relinquishing a disputed prospecting right and for its costs including those incurred in carrying out prospecting activities.
Impairment charges relate to the write down of goodwill and the exploration and evaluation asset of Akanani see notes 10 and 11. vii.
The $6 million impairment of available for sale financial assets represents the loss in value of our share in Platmin Limited following the companys delisting in December 2011. viii.
The impairment charge relates to our participation in Incwalas share of the write down of the Akanani exploration and evaluation asset see notes 11 and 13. ix.
During the year ended 30 September 2010 the Group provided financing to assist Shanduka to acquire a majority shareholding in Incwala, Lonmins Black Economic Empowerment partner.
This financing has given rise to foreign exchange movements and the accrual of interest in 2012 and 2011. x.
In 2011 the interest rate swap referred to in note 19 was entered into prior to draw down of the hedged item, resulting in a fair value loss during initial period of mismatch.
4 Group operating loss profit Group operating loss profit is stated after charging crediting : 2012 2011 $m $m Depreciation charge property, plant and equipment 120 114 Amortisation charge intangible assets 6 8 i Employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments 5 9 Share-based payments 14 17 Foreign exchange gains 17 28 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 Special items note 3 769 4 Footnote: i.
Employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments includes $3 million 2011 $6 million in respect of Directors.
Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates included in operating costs: 2012 2011 $m $m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.4 0.4 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.7 0.7 Audit-related assurance services: Interim Review 0.2 0.4 Tax compliance services 0.1 Other assurance services: Sustainability Assurance services 0.3 0.4 Comfort letters in connection with capital raising initiatives 0.1 All other non-audit services 0.1 1.7 2.1 The Companies Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration and Liability Limitation Agreements Amendment Regulations 2011 Statutory Instrument 2011 2198 became effective for the year ended 30 September 2012.
This has resulted in a change to the presentation of the auditors remuneration note above, and a restatement of prior year comparatives.
Fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc and its associates for non-audit services to the Company are not disclosed in the individual accounts of Lonmin Plc because the Companys consolidated accounts are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 123] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 5 Employees The average number of employees and Directors during the year was as follows: 2012 2011 No.
South Africa 28,222 25,084 Europe 8 13 28,230 25,097 The aggregate payroll costs of employees, key management and Directors were as follows: 2012 2011 Employee costs $m $m Wages and salaries 668 700 Social security costs 21 26 Pension costs 52 53 Share-based payments 14 17 755 796 The vast majority of employee costs are denominated in Rand and reported Dollar costs are therefore subject to foreign exchange movements.
2012 2011 Key management compensation $m $m Short-term employee benefits 5 7 Termination payments 2 Key management costs excluding share-based payments 5 9 Share-based payments 2 2 7 11 The key management compensation analysed above represents amounts in respect of the Executive Committee Exco which comprised the two executive Directors and four other senior managers 2011 two executive Directors and four other senior managers.
The Sterling equivalents of total Directors emoluments and emoluments of the highest paid Director together with full details of Directors remuneration, pensions and benefits in kind are given in the Remuneration Committee Report.
The Group operates defined contribution schemes in the UK and South Africa.
There were no accrued obligations under defined contribution plans at 30 September 2012 and 2011.
The total pension cost for the Group was $52 million 2011 $53 million, $51 million of which related to South African schemes 2011 $52 million.
com Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 124] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 6 Net finance income expenses 2012 2011 $m $m Finance income: 5 5 Interest receivable on cash and cash equivalents 4 3 Other interest receivable 1 i Exchange gains on net debt 2 Finance expenses: 19 10 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 20 30 Effective portion of cash flow hedges released to the income statement 5 Bank fees 6 12 Unamortised bank fees realised on settlement of old loan facility 7 ii Capitalised interest 26 46 Unwind of discounting on provisions note 23 11 7 Ineffective portion of cash flow hedges released to the income statement note 19 2 i Exchange losses on net debt 1 Special items note 3 : 30 18 Interest on HDSA receivable note 14 16 15 Exchange gain loss on HDSA receivable note 14 14 3 Movement in fair value of HDSA derivative note 14 24 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges 6 Net finance income expenses 16 23 Footnotes: i.
Net debt is defined by the Group as cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest bearing loans and borrowings less unamortised bank fees.
Interest expenses incurred have been capitalised on a Group basis to the extent that there is an appropriate qualifying asset.
The weighted average interest rate used by the Group for capitalisation is 4.3% 2011 5.9%.
7 Taxation 2012 2011 $m $m Current tax charge excluding special items : United Kingdom tax charge i Current tax credit at 25% 2011 28% Less amount of the benefit arising from double tax relief available Overseas current tax expense at 28% 2011 28% 10 13 Corporate tax expense current year 9 18 Adjustment in respect of prior years 1 6 Tax on dividends remitted 1 Deferred tax charge excluding special items : Deferred tax expense UK and overseas 29 43 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 31 47 Adjustment in respect of prior years 2 4 Deferred tax credit on special items UK and overseas note 3 : 187 84 Reversal of utilisation of losses from prior years to offset deferred tax liability 2 2 ii Exchange on current taxation 1 ii Exchange on deferred taxation 17 81 Tax on special items impacting profit before tax 168 Actual tax credit 148 28 Tax charge excluding special items note 3 39 56 Effective tax rate 21% 9% Effective tax rate excluding special items note 3 68% 18% 01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 125] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 7 Taxation continued A reconciliation of the standard tax credit charge to the actual tax credit was as follows: 2012 2012 2011 2011 % $m % $m Tax credit charge on loss profit at standard tax rate 28 195 29 85 Tax effect of: Overseas taxes on dividends remitted by subsidiary companies 1 iii Unutilised losses 1 5 Foreign exchange impacts on taxable profits 2 14 12 38 Adjustment in respect of prior years 3 10 Other 1 4 13 Special items as defined above 5 34 28 84 Actual tax credit 21 148 9 28 The Groups primary operations are based in South Africa.
The South African statutory tax rate is 28% 2011 28%.
Lonmin Plc operates a branch in South Africa which is subject to a tax rate of 28% on branch profits 2011 33%.
After taking into account the tax rate effect of the Lonmin Plc branch, the aggregated standard tax rate for the Group is 28% 2011 29%.
The secondary tax rate on dividends remitted by South African companies was 10% 2011 10%.
As from 1 April 2012 the secondary tax on companies was replaced by dividend withholding tax at a standard rate of 15%.
Dividends payable by the South African companies to Lonmin Plc will be subject to a 5% withholding tax benefitting from double taxation agreements.
Effective from 1 April 2012 the United Kingdom tax rate changed from 26% to 24%.
Effective from 1 April 2013 the United Kingdom tax rate will change from 24% to 23%.
This does not significantly impact the Groups deferred tax liabilities.
Overseas tax charges are predominantly calculated based in Rand as required by the local authorities.
As these subsidiaries functional currency is US Dollar this leads to a variety of foreign exchange impacts being the retranslation of current and deferred tax balances and monetary assets, as well as other translation differences.
The Rand denominated deferred tax balance in US Dollars at 30 September 2012 is $461 million 30 September 2011 $569 million.
Unutilised losses reflect losses generated in entities for which no deferred tax is provided as it is not thought probable that future profits can be generated against which a deferred tax asset could be offset or previously unrecognised losses utilised.
8 Loss earnings per share Loss earnings per share LPS EPS has been calculated on the loss attributable to equity shareholders amounting to $410 million 2011 earnings of $273 million using a weighted average number of 202,675,831 ordinary shares in issue 2011 202,446,803 ordinary shares.
Diluted loss earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue adjusted by dilutive outstanding share options in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings Per Share.
In the 12 months to 30 September 2012 outstanding share options were anti-dilutive and so were excluded from diluted loss per share in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings Per Share.
2012 2011 Loss for Per share Profit for Per share the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Basic LPS EPS 410 202,675,831 202.3 273 202,446,803 134.8 Share option schemes 617,567 0.4 Diluted LPS EPS 410 202,675,831 202.3 273 203,064,370 134.4 2012 2011 Profit for Per share Profit for Per share the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Underlying EPS 15 202,675,831 7.4 226 202,446,803 111.6 Share option schemes 1,690,435 0.1 617,567 0.3 Diluted Underlying EPS 15 204,366,266 7.3 226 203,064,370 111.3 Underlying earnings per share has been presented as the Directors consider it important to present the underlying results of the business.
Underlying earnings per share is based on the earnings attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude special items as defined in note 3 as follows: www.
com Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 126] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 8 Loss earnings per share continued 2012 2011 Loss profit Per share Profit for Per share for the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Basic LPS EPS 410 202,675,831 202.3 273 202,446,803 134.8 Special items note 3 425 209.7 47 23.2 Underlying EPS 15 202,675,831 7.4 226 202,446,803 111.6 Headline earnings and the resultant headline earnings per share are specific disclosures defined and required by the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
These are calculated as follows: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2012 2011 $m $m Loss earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders IAS 33 earnings 410 273 Add back loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment note 4 2 Add back impairment of assets note 3 616 2 Tax related to the above items 120 1 Non-controlling interests 86 1 Headline earnings 275 2012 2011 Loss profit Per share Profit for Per share for the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Headline EPS 202,675,831 275 202,446,803 135.8 Share option schemes 1,690,435 617,567 0.4 Diluted Headline EPS 204,366,266 275 203,064,370 135.4 9 Dividends 2012 2011 $m Cents per share $m Cents per share Prior year final dividend paid in the year 31 15.0 30 15.0 Interim dividend paid in the year Total dividend paid in the year 31 15.0 30 15.0 Interim dividend paid in the year Proposed final dividend for the year 30 15.0 Total dividend in respect of the year 30 15.0 01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 127] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 10 Goodwill 2012 2011 $m $m Cost: At 30 September 186 186 Impairment: At 1 October 2011 73 73 Impairment charge in the year 73 At 30 September 2012 146 73 Net book value at 30 September 40 113 There are two CGUs in the Group relevant for the purposes of evaluating goodwill.
The Marikana CGU operates as a single business and mines and processes substantially all of the ore produced by the Group.
The Akanani CGU is located in a separate geographic area and includes the Akanani asset acquired on the purchase of AfriOre Limited.
The recoverable amounts of each of the CGUs goodwill have been determined using the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
In determining the recoverable amounts for the Marikana and Akanani CGUs the key assumptions have been set out in the Groups impairment policy see note 1.
The impairment charge relates to the Akanani CGU see note 11 for details.
At 30 September 2012 and 30 September 2011 goodwill is allocated as follows: $40 million is allocated to the Marikana CGU which is within the PGM Operations segment.
This arose on the buy out of 9.11% of the non-controlling interest in the principal mining operations of the Group in 2004.
2012 $nil 2011 $73 million tax goodwill is allocated to the Akanani CGU which is within the Evaluation segment.
This was generated on the acquisition of the Akanani asset in 2007.
11 Intangible assets 2012 2011 Exploration Exploration and Mineral and Mineral evaluation rights Other Total evaluation rights Other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cost: At 1 October 733 344 37 1,114 710 344 53 1,107 Additions 4 4 23 23 Assets derecognised 16 16 At 30 September 737 344 37 1,118 733 344 37 1,114 Amortisation and impairment: At 1 October 94 27 121 87 42 129 Charge for the year 6 6 7 1 8 Impairment charge 529 529 Assets derecognised 16 16 At 30 September 529 100 27 656 94 27 121 Net book value: At 30 September 208 244 10 462 733 250 10 993 The Group has exploration and evaluation assets of $208 million 2011 $733 million relating to the exploration and evaluation operations at Akanani.
After adding $nil 2011 $73 million of tax goodwill see note 10 and deducting deferred tax of $46 million 2011 $178 million the net carrying value of Akanani in the books is $162 million 2011 $628 million including the non-controlling interests share.
com Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 128] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 11 Intangible assets continued Additions to exploration and evaluation assets include $nil of capitalised interest 2011 $20 million.
The Groups approach to assessing the intangible assets, including exploration and evaluation assets, for impairment is set out in the accounting policies see note 1.
During the second half of the financial year we completed a prefeasibility study on the Akanani exploration and evaluation asset.
This study provided an update on the results of the original concept study undertaken at the time of acquisition.
Based on the results of this prefeasibility study coupled with the current and long-term PGM pricing outlook we have taken the decision to impair the asset by $602 million.
The impairment charge has been applied first to reduce goodwill to nil see note 10 with the rest allocated to reduce the exploration and evaluation asset.
The Group has no indefinite life intangible assets other than goodwill see note 10.
As part of a review of the intangible assets register, certain fully amortised items were derecognised from the assets register in 2011.
In accordance with the Group accounting policies no depreciation has been provided on surface mining land having a book value of $13 million 2011 $13 million.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 129] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 13 Equity accounted investments The Group owns 23.56% of its associate, Incwala Resources Pty Limited which is incorporated in South Africa.
The functional currency of Incwala Resources Pty Limited is the South African Rand.
As a result any foreign exchange translation gains or losses on the net assets of the Company are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Group also owns 42.5% of the Pandora joint venture whose operations are in South Africa.
The Group equity accounts for the joint venture as a jointly controlled entity.
The functional currency of the Pandora joint venture is the South African Rand.
As a result any foreign exchange translation gains or losses on the net assets of the entity are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
2012 2011 Group Group share of share of net assets Goodwill Total net assets Goodwill Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Net book value at 1 October 169 6 175 166 6 172 Share of loss profit 6 6 9 9 Distribution of profits 9 9 Capital contributions 2 2 2 2 Foreign exchange 5 5 8 8 Net book value at 30 September 157 157 169 6 175 The Groups share of the net assets of equity accounted investments comprises the following: 2012 2011 Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets 134 49 183 143 40 183 Current assets 7 10 17 5 35 40 Current liabilities 3 17 20 3 27 30 Non-current liabilities 23 23 24 24 Net assets 115 42 157 121 48 169 Amounts recognised by the Group in respect of the equity accounted investments comprise: 2012 2011 Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Share of net assets 115 42 157 121 48 169 Goodwill 6 6 115 42 157 127 48 175 The Groups share of the loss profit of equity accounted investments comprises the following: 2012 2011 Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue income 3 18 21 2 17 19 Expenses including taxation 1 16 17 1 9 10 Special item: i Impairment of investment in Akanani 10 10 Loss profit 8 2 6 1 8 9 Footnote: i.
This refers to the impairment of Incwalas 26% share in Akanani following the Groups impairment of the assets as detailed in note 11. www.
com Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 130] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 14 Other financial assets Available HDSA HDSA for sale receivable derivative Total $m $m $m $m At 1 October 2011 48 351 399 Additions 2 2 Interest accrued 1 16 17 Movement in fair value 8 8 Exchange differences 14 14 Impairment loss 6 6 At 30 September 2012 37 381 418 Available HDSA HDSA for sale receivable derivative Total $m $m $m $m At 1 October 2010 62 318 24 404 Additions 9 21 30 Interest accrued 15 15 Movement in fair value 20 24 44 Exchange differences 3 3 6 At 30 September 2011 48 351 399 Listed investments within available for sale financial assets are held at fair value using the market price on 30 September 2012 and 30 September 2011.
2012 2011 $m $m Listed investments 19 30 Listed investments include a 4% shareholding in Platmin Limited 2011 4% which was listed on the Alternative Investment Market on 10 August 2006.
The $6 million 2011 $nil impairment of available for sale financial assets represents the loss in value of our share in Platmin Limited following the companys delisting in December 2011.
Available for sale financial assets include $18 million 2011 $18 million of restricted cash deposits in respect of rehabilitation obligations.
On 8 July 2010, Lonmin entered into an agreement to provide financing amounting to 200 million for Shandukas acquisition, at fair value, of 50.03% of shares in Incwala from the original HDSA shareholders.
The terms of the financing provided by Lonmin to Shanduka include the accrual of interest on the HDSA receivable at fixed rates based on a principal value of 200 million which is repayable after 5 years including accrued interest, or earlier at Shandukas discretion.
Details of the change in the HDSA derivative during the year can be found in note 21g.
15 Inventories 2012 2011 $m $m Consumables 65 50 Work in progress 193 299 Finished goods 2 35 260 384 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to $1,374 million 2011 $1,442 million.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 131] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 16 Trade and other receivables 2012 2011 $m $m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade receivables 33 82 Other receivables 43 66 Prepayments and accrued income 3 6 79 154 17 Trade and other payables 2012 2011 $m $m Trade payables 114 179 Accruals and other payables 207 167 Indirect taxation and social security 7 8 328 354 18 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 2012 2011 $m $m Short-term loans: Bank loans unsecured 123 10 Long-term loans: Bank loans unsecured 613 300 736 310 The maturity profile of interest bearing loans and borrowings is disclosed in note 21b.
In 2012 $6 million 2011 $8 million of unamortised bank fees have been offset against loans according to the amortisation profile.
Bank debt facilities consist of a $700 million syndicated US Dollar facility and three South African Rand bilateral facilities of R660 million each.
The main features of the $700 million syndicated facility which is supported by BNP Paribas S. A. Citigroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank Plc, J. P. Morgan Limited, Lloyds TSB Bank Plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. and Standard Chartered Bank are as follows: a $300 million five-year amortising term facility that matures in May 2016: a $400 million five-year committed revolving credit facility that matures in May 2016: the margin on both these facilities is determined by reference to net debt underlying EBITDA and will be in the range 200bps to 375bps: and the key covenants in these facilities include a maximum consolidated net debt underlying EBITDA ratio of 4.0 times and a minimum underlying EBITDA net interest ratio of 3.5 times.
The three R660 million bilateral facilities are at the Western Platinum Limited level, the operating company.
These facilities are supported by FirstRand Bank Limited, Investec Bank Limited and The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited.
The main features of these facilities are as follows: each facility is of a revolving credit nature and consists of a R330 million five year committed component and a R330 million one year committed component that can be rolled annually at the discretion of the bank: the margins on these facilities vary from facility to facility and bank to bank: and the key covenants in these facilities include a maximum net debt underlying EBITDA ratio of 3.5 times and a minimum underlying EBITDA net interest ratio of 3.5 times calculated at a Western Platinum Limited level.
com Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 132] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 18 Interest bearing loans and borrowings continued As at 30 September 2012, Lonmin had net debt of $421 million, comprising $739 million of drawn facilities net of $315 million of cash and equivalents and $6 million of unamortised bank fees and a further $3 million of external debt incurred to fund the construction of a chrome treatment plant with an outside partner.
Undrawn facilities amounted to $199 million 2011 $636 million.
Subsequent to year end, the Group has entered into amended financial arrangements which will come into effect on the successful completion of a Rights Issue.
Refer to the going concern section in note 1 as well as the subsequent events detailed in note 32 for further details.
19 Derivative financial instruments 2012 2011 $m $m Current liabilities Derivative financial instruments liability 5 5 Non-current liabilities Derivative financial instruments liability 10 9 The Group does not undertake trading activity in financial instruments.
Forward sales may be undertaken where the Board determines that it is in the Groups interest to hedge a proportion of future cash flows as they mitigate exposure to future price fluctuations.
Such forward sales are designated as cash flow hedges at inception.
No forward sales were undertaken in 2012.
In 2011 the Group entered into a 5 year interest rate swap to swap its exposure to a base floating interest rate linked to a 6 month USD Libor into a blended fixed rate of 2.1711% on its $300m syndicated term loan that matures on 25 May 2016.
This swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge.
The fair value of interest rate swaps at the end of 2012 amounted to a liability of $15 million 2011 $14 million.
In addition to the base rate, the loan also carries a credit margin, which varies according to Group Net Debt underlying EBITDA.
20 Deferred revenue In March 2012 Lonmin entered into a pre-paid sale of 75% of its current gold production for the next 54 months.
Under this contract Lonmin will deliver 70,700 ounces of gold over the period with delivery on a quarterly basis and in return received an upfront payment of $107 million.
Proceeds of the pre-paid sale are treated as deferred revenue and amortised to profit as deliveries occur.
2012 2011 $m $m Deferred revenue received 107 Less: Contractual deliveries 13 Closing balance 94 Current liabilities Deferred revenue 24 Non-current liabilities Deferred revenue 70 01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 133] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 21 Financial risk management The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs liquidity risk, the risk of default by counterparties to financial transactions credit risk, fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates and commodity prices market risk.
21a Credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: 2012 2011 $m $m Non-current assets: HDSA receivable 381 351 Other financial assets 37 48 Current assets: Trade receivables 33 82 Other receivables 43 66 Tax recoverable 3 1 Cash and cash equivalents 315 76 812 624 HDSA receivables HDSA receivables as described in note 14 are secured on the HDSAs shareholding in Incwala.
The equity value of this shareholding was $199 million at 30 September 2012.
The HDSA receivable of $381 million 2011 $351 million is not past due and has no provision against it.
Trade receivables The Group is exposed to significant trade receivable credit risk through the sale of PGM metals to a limited group of customers.
This risk is managed as follows: aged analysis is performed on trade receivable balances and reviewed on a monthly basis: credit ratings are obtained on any new customers and the credit ratings of existing customers are monitored on an ongoing basis: credit limits are set for customers: and trigger points and escalation procedures are clearly defined.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic location was: 2012 2011 $m $m The Americas 3 Asia 6 5 Europe 10 53 South Africa 17 21 33 82 The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows: 2012 2011 Gross Provision Net Gross Provision Net $m $m $m $m $m $m Not past due 33 33 82 82 Banking counterparties Banking counterparty credit risk is managed by spreading financial transactions across an approved list of counterparties of high credit quality.
Banking counterparties are approved by the Board and consist of the ten banks that have participated in Lonmins existing bank debt facilities as described in note 18. www.
com Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 134] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 21 Financial risk management continued 21b Liquidity risk and capital management Liquidity risk The policy on overall liquidity is to ensure that the Group has sufficient funds to facilitate all ongoing operations.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of netting agreements: Carrying Contractual 1 1 to 2 2 to 5 5 amount cash flows year years years years 30 September 2012 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial liabilities: Unsecured bank loans 742 840 152 80 608 Trade and other payables 328 328 328 Derivative financial instruments 15 15 5 5 5 Carrying Contractual 1 1 to 2 2 to 5 5 amount cash flows year years years years 30 September 2011 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial liabilities: Unsecured bank loans 318 359 19 17 323 Trade and other payables 354 354 354 Derivative financial instruments 14 14 5 5 4 Capital management The Groups philosophy on capital management is to maintain a low level of financial gearing given the exposure of the business to fluctuations in PGM commodity prices and the Rand US Dollar exchange rate.
The Group funds its operations through a mixture of equity funding and bank borrowings.
The table below presents quantitative data for the components the Group manages as capital: 2012 2011 $m $m Equity shareholders funds 2,488 2,930 Loans and borrowings 736 310 Cash and cash equivalents 315 76 At 30 September 2,909 3,164 As part of the annual budgeting and long-term planning process, the Groups cash flow forecast is reviewed and approved by the Board.
The cash flow forecast is amended for any material changes identified during the year, for example material acquisitions and disposals.
Where funding requirements are identified from the cash flow forecast, appropriate measures are taken to ensure these requirements can be satisfied.
Factors taken into consideration are: the size and nature of the requirement: preferred sources of finance applying key criteria of cost, commitment, availability, security covenant conditions: recommended counterparties, fees and market conditions: and covenants, guarantees and other financial commitments.
Prior to the strike disruption, the Group had embarked on a review of its growth strategy, future production profile and capital investment programme as a result of prevailing subdued short-term demand for PGMs.
The strike disruption and the continued PGM market environment has significantly altered the outlook of the PGM industry as a whole necessitating the Groups further review of its strategy and capital structure.
To this end, the Board has concluded that reducing capital expenditure in the near term and raising additional equity, in conjunction with a revision to bank facilities will result in the appropriate capital structure and retain the Groups flexibility as regards financial risks.
Consequently the announcement of these results will coincide with the launch of a Rights Issue which is conditional on, amongst other things, shareholder approval.
The Group proposes to raise approximately $817 million before expenses as well as revise the existing debt facilities.
Details of the Rights Issue and proposed amendments to debt facilities are included in our Rights Issue Prospectus.
Gearing, calculated on net borrowings attributable to the Group divided by those attributable net borrowings and the equity interests outstanding at the financial reporting date, was 14% at 30 September 2012 30 September 2011 7%.
The ratio of consolidated net debt to underlying EBITDA increased from 0.54 times at 30 September 2011 to 2.18 times at 30 September 2012 which is well within the covenants relating to the bank facilities.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 135] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 21 Financial risk management continued 21c Foreign currency risk The Groups operations are essentially based in South Africa and the majority of the revenue stream is in US Dollars.
However, the bulk of the Groups operating costs and taxes are paid in Rand.
Most of the cash received in South Africa is in US Dollars.
Most of the Groups funding sources are in US Dollars.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on monetary items that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the relevant Group entity.
The table below shows the extent to which Group companies have monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currency of the relevant Group entity.
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of such assets and liabilities are recognised in the income statement.
2012 2011 SA Rand Sterling Other Total SA Rand Sterling Other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets: Available for sale financial assets 18 19 37 18 30 48 HDSA receivable 381 381 351 351 Current assets: Trade and other receivables 40 40 108 1 109 Cash and cash equivalents 167 167 43 3 46 Tax recoverable 3 3 1 1 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 284 5 289 333 6 6 345 Tax payable 2 2 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 123 123 10 10 Non-current liabilities: Interest bearing loans and borrowings 122 122 8 8 301 376 19 94 183 349 24 190 The principal exchange rates impacting the Groups results are Rand Dollar and Sterling Dollar.
Details of average exchange rates and closing exchange rates can be found in the Operating Statistics.
The Group also carries a $461 million Rand denominated deferred tax liability on the balance sheet which is exposed to currency risk 2011 $569 million.
Our current policy is not to hedge Rand US Dollar currency exposures and, therefore, fluctuations in the Rand to US Dollar exchange rate can have a significant impact on the Groups results.
A strengthening of the Rand against the US Dollar has an adverse effect on profits due to the majority of operating costs being paid in Rand.
The approximate effects on the Groups results of a 10% movement in the Rand to US Dollar 2012 average and closing exchange rate would be as follows: 2012 2011 Underlying operating loss profit $117m $142m Underlying loss profit for the year $69m $102m Equity $69m $102m EPS cents 34.0c 50.6c These sensitivities are based on 2012 prices, costs and volumes and assume all other variables remain constant.
com Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 136] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 21 Financial risk management continued 21d Interest rate risk Currently, the bulk of our outstanding borrowings are in US Dollars and at floating rates of interest.
However, to provide greater certainty, Lonmin entered into a floating to fixed interest rate swap on the term component of the US Dollar debt.
This fixes the base rate in respect of the $300 million term facility for the next five years refer to note 19 for details.
The interest position is kept under constant review in conjunction with the liquidity policy outlined in note 21b and the future funding requirements of the business.
Based on contracted maturities the following amounts are exposed to interest rate risk over future years as shown below: Weighted average interest rate in 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 % $m $m $m $m Liabilities: i Unsecured bank loans 4.3 123 319 Non-interest bearing At floating interest rates At fixed interest rates 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets: US Dollar 36 39 148 29 SA Rand 43 109 185 61 Sterling 1 3 381 351 Other 19 30 1 98 179 333 94 381 351 Non-interest bearing At floating interest rates At fixed interest rates 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial liabilities: US Dollar 39 9 212 14 300 300 SA Rand 284 335 245 18 Sterling 5 6 Other 6 328 356 457 32 300 300 Footnote: i.
Figures are based on facilities outstanding at the financial reporting date.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments A change in the interest rate will have limited effect on equity and profit or loss due to the majority of interest being capitalised.
21e Commodity price risk Our policy is not to hedge commodity price exposure on PGMs, except gold, and therefore any change in prices will have a direct effect on the Groups trading results.
For base metals and gold, hedging is undertaken where the Board determines that it is in the Groups interest to hedge a proportion of future cash flows.
The policy is to hedge up to a maximum of 75% of the future cash flows from the sale of these products looking forward over the next 12 to 24 months.
The Group did not undertake any hedging of base metals under this authority in the financial year and no forward contracts were in place in respect of base metals at the end of the year.
In 2012 the Group undertook a prepaid sale of Gold.
Refer to note 20 for details.
The approximate effects on the Groups results of a 10% movement in the 2012 average metal prices achieved for Platinum Pt $1,517 per ounce, Palladium Pd $630 per ounce and Rhodium Rh $1,274 per ounce would be as follows: 2012 2011 Pt Pd Rh Pt Pd Rh Underlying operating loss profit $106m $21m $15m $128m $28m $22m Underlying loss profit for the year $63m $12m $9m $92m $17m $16m Equity $63m $12m $9m $92m $17m $16m EPS cents 31.0c 5.9c 4.4c 45.4c 8.2c 7.8c These sensitivities are based on 2012 prices, costs and volumes and assume all other variables remain constant.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 137] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 21 Financial risk management continued 21f Fair values The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the statement of financial position, are as follows: 2012 2011 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value $m $m $m $m Available for sale financial assets 37 37 48 48 HDSA receivable 381 381 351 351 HDSA derivative 5 21 Trade and other receivables 76 76 148 148 Tax recoverable 3 3 1 1 Cash and cash equivalents 315 315 76 76 Financial assets 812 817 624 645 Trade and other payables 328 328 354 354 Unsecured bank loans 742 742 318 318 Derivative financial instruments 15 15 14 14 Tax payable 2 2 Financial liabilities 1,085 1,085 688 688 Net financial liabilities 273 268 64 43 Listed investments within available for sale financial assets are marked to market.
The residual balances in available for sale financial assets relate to cash deposits held in respect of rehabilitation obligations for which carrying values are at fair value.
The HDSA receivable represents loans held at amortised cost.
The HDSA derivative asset and other derivative financial instruments are held at fair value subject to limitations under IFRS in recognising day one gains see note 21g.
For cash and cash equivalents the carrying value is equal to fair value.
For trade and other receivables and trade and other payables these are typically due within one month and therefore the carrying amount is fair value.
For unsecured bank loans there is considered to be no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value.
Amounts are shown gross of unamortised bank fees.
21g Fair value hierarchy The following is an analysis of the financial instruments that are measured at fair value.
They are grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on the extent to which the fair value is observable.
The levels are classified as follows: Level 1 fair value is based on quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value is determined using inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value is determined on inputs not based on observable market data.
2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $m $m $m $m Available for sale financial assets 15 4 19 Derivative financial instruments 15 15 15 11 4 www.
com Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 138] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 21 Financial risk management continued 21g Fair value hierarchy continued 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $m $m $m $m Available for sale financial assets 30 30 Derivative financial instruments 14 14 30 14 16 Included at level 3 is a derivative that relates only to arrangements with Shanduka for Lonmin to participate in equity gains arising from Shandukas investment in Incwala.
The value of the derivative is based on the equity gain arising on Shandukas interest in Incwala and therefore the underlying value of the Platinum operations in which Incwala has an interest.
This is assessed by using a see-through valuation method based on the overall value of Lonmin Plc.
Whilst the calculation of value of the derivative instrument therefore includes a Monte Carlo analysis of Lonmins share price, the valuation is also dependant on a number of key management assumptions and must be classified as level 3 under IFRS 7.
The key management assumptions include an assessment of Lonmins share price volatility, the nature of various liquidity events which can give rise to settlement of the derivative, the likelihood of settlement occurring and the timing of the settlement event.
As at 30 September 2012 a 10% movement in share price will impact the fair value by $2 million, a 10% movement in volatility will effect the fair value by $1 million.
The fair value calculated assumes that there is only a 10% chance of the derivative being settled before the instrument becomes due at the end of five years.
IAS 39 does not permit a day one gain to be recognised to the extent that the fair value of the hybrid financial instrument is derived from unobservable market data.
At initial recognition the fair value of the derivative was $33 million, however, this included day one gains of $21 million which are not permitted to be recognised and therefore managements assessment of the unobservable data contributing to the valuation of the asset was adjusted to eliminate the day one gain.
Subsequent to initial recognition a cumulative fair value decrease of $28 million occurred in the years to 30 September 2012, reducing the carrying value of the derivative on the statement of financial position to $nil.
Subsequent to initial recognition, IAS 39 requires that a gain or loss shall be recognised only to the extent that it arises from a change in a factor including time that market participants would consider in setting a price.
22 Deferred tax assets liabilities 2012 2011 Deferred Deferred Net Deferred Deferred Net tax assets tax liabilities balance tax assets tax liabilities balance Deferred tax assets liabilities in respect of: $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets 648 648 773 773 Provisions 75 75 47 47 Trading losses 5 5 Share-based payments 6 6 10 10 86 648 562 57 773 716 Movement in temporary differences during the year Recognised in income At 1 Special items Recognised in At 30 October Exchange Other special comprehensive September 2011 movements items Underlying income 2012 $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets 773 16 166 57 648 Provisions 47 1 27 75 Trading losses 5 5 Share-based payments 10 2 4 2 6 716 17 168 29 2 562 01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 139] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 22 Deferred tax assets liabilities continued Recognised in income At 1 Special items Recognised in At 30 October Exchange Other special comprehensive September 2010 movements items Underlying income 2011 $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets 790 85 1 69 773 Provisions 29 3 21 47 Cash flow hedges 1 1 Trading losses 3 1 2 Share-based payments 6 1 7 2 10 751 81 1 43 4 716 Unrecognised deferred tax assets liabilities Deferred tax assets liabilities have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 2012 2011 Unrecognised Unrecognised deferred tax deferred tax Temporary assets Temporary assets differences liabilities differences liabilities $m $m $m $m Capital losses carried forward 162 45 613 172 Trading and other losses carried forward 85 24 79 22 Unredeemed capital expenditure 287 80 293 82 Share-based payments 3 1 Unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries 1,642 82 1,700 170 1,108 67 712 107 The temporary differences above, except for the unremitted profits from overseas subsidiaries, are subject to the local tax rate in the United Kingdom at 23% 2011 28%, South Africa at 28% 2011 28% and Canada at 18% 2011 18%.
As from 1 April 2012 the secondary tax on companies was replaced by dividend withholding tax levied on the shareholder at a standard rate of 15%.
Therefore unrecognised deferred tax liabilities generated by the timing difference relating to unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries in 2012 only apply to Plc for dividends receivable from WPL and EPL at a rate of 5%.
At 30 September 2012, the Group had an amount of $114 million 2011 $111 million of surplus Advanced Corporation Tax ACT available, subject to certain restrictions, for set-off against future United Kingdom corporation tax liabilities.
Shadow ACT amounted to $274 million 2011 $257 million and must be set-off prior to the utilisation of surplus ACT.
No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of the trading and other losses and the capital losses as management believe the chances of recovery are low.
23 Provisions 2012 2011 $m $m At 1 October 125 80 Capitalised on non-current assets 10 52 Established in the year 20 2 Utilised in the year 3 Unwinding of discount note 6 11 7 Exchange differences 20 16 At 30 September 143 125 Provisions represent site rehabilitation liabilities and generally assume the cash flows occur at the end of the life of the mine.
The Group provided third party guarantees to the Department of Minerals and Energy amounting to $71 million 2011 $50 million in connection with these rehabilitation obligations which the Group has to fund in order to restore the environment once all mining operations have ceased.
com Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 140] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 24 Contingent liabilities 2012 2011 $m $m i Third party guarantees 12 6 Footnote i.
The Group provided third party guarantees to Eskom as security to cover estimated electricity accounts for three months.
25 Called up share capital and share premium account Number $m Ordinary shares of $1 each: Issued and fully paid 2012 203,057,369 203 Issued and fully paid 2011 202,657,369 203 Deferred shares of 1 each: Issued and fully paid 2012 and 2011 50,000 Issued and Paid up Share fully paid amount premium Number $m $m At 1 October 2011: Ordinary shares of $1 each 202,657,369 203 997 The issue of shares pursuant to: Issue of shares to the Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust Shareholder Value Incentive Plan and Stay & Prosper Plan 400,000 At 30 September 2012: Ordinary shares of $1 each 203,057,369 203 997 The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares and the provisions relating to the transfer of the ordinary shares are governed by law and the Companys Articles of Association.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive all shareholder documents, to receive notice of any general meeting, to attend, speak and exercise voting rights, either in person or by proxy and are entitled to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except where the Company has exercised its rights to suspend voting rights or to prohibit transfer.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 141] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 26 Share plans At 30 September 2012, the following options and awards were outstanding: Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average exercise price remaining fair value of outstanding contracted of options Number options life granted of shares pence years Share Plans Executive Share Option Scheme Outstanding at 1 October 2011 127,755 1,025.76 Granted during the year Exercised during the year Lapsed during the year 81,376 Outstanding at 30 September 2012 46,379 1,098.00 Exercisable at the end of the year 46,379 899.00 1.00 Lonmin Share Option Scheme Outstanding at 1 October 2011 1,900 1,098.00 Granted during the year Exercised during the year 1,098.00 Lapsed during the year 1,900 1,098.00 Outstanding at 30 September 2012 Exercisable at the end of the year Long Term Incentive Plan Outstanding at 1 October 2011 1,421,731 Granted during the year 1,023,327 Exercised during the year 117,549 Lapsed during the year 352,311 Outstanding at 30 September 2012 1,975,198 2.23 4.13 Exercisable at the end of the year Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Outstanding at 1 October 2011 39,636 Granted during the year Exercised during the year Lapsed during the year 39,636 Outstanding at 30 September 2012 Exercisable at the end of the year Stay & Prosper Plan Outstanding at 1 October 2011 2,493,414 Granted during the year 3,110,608 Exercised during the year 262,413 Lapsed during the year 460,741 Outstanding at 30 September 2012 4,880,868 2.42 4.13 Exercisable at the end of the year ASAP Outstanding at 1 October 2011 Granted during the year 137,319 Exercised during the year Lapsed during the year Outstanding at 30 September 2012 137,319 2.52 Exercisable at the end of the year Further information about each of the above plans, including the performance conditions, can be found in the Remuneration Committee Report.
com Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 142] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 26 Share plans continued Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust the Trust At 30 September 2012 the Trust held 164,951 shares beneficially and as bare trustee 2011 163,304 shares.
The market value of these shares at the year end was $1.5 million.
Where not waived, dividends payable on these shares are held by the Trust on behalf of the participants.
Ian Farmer and Simon Scott are deemed to have a beneficial interest, to the extent of their Invested and Bonus Shares pursuant to the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan included in the table of Directors share interests, and a non-beneficial interest in the balance.
Details of options granted during the year The fair value of equity settled options granted in the year have been measured using the weighted average inputs below and the following valuation models: SAYE Black-Scholes LTIP Monte Carlo DABP Monte Carlo Stay & Prosper Monte Carlo Scarce Skills Black-Scholes 2012 2011 Range of share price at date of grant 5.58 10.37 12.35 16.83 Exercise price Expected option life years 3 3 Volatility 44% 69% Dividend yield 1.7% 1.2% Risk free interest rate 0.0% 0.1% Volatility was calculated with reference to the Groups historic share price volatility up to the grant date.
The number of years of historic data used is equal to the term of each option.
27 Related parties The Group has a related party relationship with its Directors and key management as disclosed in the Remuneration Report and in note 5 and its equity accounted investments note 13.
The Groups related party transactions and balances are summarised below: 2012 2011 $m $m Purchases from joint venture Pandora 44 46 Amounts due from joint venture Pandora 6 1 Amounts due from associate Incwala 2 2 i Dividends to minorities Incwala 14 10 Interest accrued from HDSA investors in Incwala 16 15 ii Subscription paid to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association 14 14 iii Purchases made from Xstrata 1 1 iii Sales to Xstrata 27 15 iii Amounts due from Xstrata 1 3 Amounts due from HDSA investors in Incwala 381 351 All related party transactions are priced on an arms length basis.
A Group company has made a series of non-interest bearing loans to Incwala Platinum Pty Limited IP.
IP is a substantial shareholder in the Companys principal operating subsidiaries.
Advanced dividends in the sums of R25m, R79m, R79m, R80m and R120m were made to IP on 28 September 2009, 29 March 2010, 29 September 2010, 30 September 2011 and 30 September 2012 respectively.
IP has authorised the relevant Group company to recover these amounts by reducing future dividends that would otherwise be payable to all shareholders.
The subscription paid by Lonmin is material to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association of which Lonmin is a member.
Xstrata Zinc BV has a 24.9% shareholding in Lonmin Plc.
28 Capital commitments 2012 2011 $m $m Contracted for but not yet provided 71 67 01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 143] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the Accounts 29 Operating and finance leases The full aggregate lease payments of the Group under non-cancellable operating leases are set out below: Land and buildings 2012 2011 $m $m Operating leases which fall due for payment: Within one year 1 1 Between one and five years 3 3 Over five years 3 3 7 7 30 Net debt as defined by the Group Foreign As at exchange As at 1 October and non-cash 30 September 2011 Cash flow movements 2012 $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 76 239 315 Current borrowings 10 110 3 123 Non-current borrowings 308 314 3 619 Unamortised bank fees 8 2 6 Net debt as defined by the Group 234 185 2 421 Foreign As at exchange As at 1 October and non-cash 30 September 2010 Cash flow movements 2011 $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 148 74 2 76 Current borrowings 71 61 10 Non-current borrowings 462 154 308 Unamortised bank fees 10 2 8 Net debt as defined by the Group 375 141 234 Net debt as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest bearing loans and borrowings less unamortised bank fees.
31 Principal Group companies The following companies have been consolidated in the Group accounts and materially contributed to the assets and or results of the Group and are classified according to their main activity.
Interest in ordinary Country of share capital Principal Company incorporation % activities Eastern Platinum Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining Western Platinum Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining and refining Messina Platinum Mines Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining Akanani Mining Pty Ltd South Africa 74.0 Subsidiary Mineral exploration and evaluation A full list of Group companies will be included in the annual return registered with Companies House.
32 Events after the financial reporting period On 29 October 2012 the Company entered into an agreement with Citigroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank Plc, J. P. Morgan Securities Plc and Standard Bank Plc to fully underwrite approximately $800 million Rights Issue.
The Group has also entered into amended financing arrangements which will come into effect upon successful completion of the Rights Issue.
Completion of the Rights Issue is conditional, amongst other things, upon shareholder approval at a General Meeting expected to be held on 19 November 2012. www.
com Financial Statements Lonmin Plc [ 144] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Lonmin Plc Company Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2012 2011 Note $m $m Non-current assets Tangible fixed assets 34 1 2 Investments 1,523 1,753 Shares in subsidiary undertakings 35 1,142 1,400 Other financial assets 36 381 353 Total non-current assets 1,524 1,755 Current assets Deferred tax 37 2 1 Debtors 38 1,071 899 Cash at bank and on hand 67 46 Total current assets 1,140 946 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 39 701 704 Net current assets 439 242 Total assets less current liabilities 1,963 1,997 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 39 504 301 Derivative financial instruments 10 9 Bank loans and overdrafts 494 292 Net assets 1,459 1,696 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 40 203 203 Share premium account 40 997 997 Other reserves 40 79 79 Profit and loss account 40 180 417 Total shareholders funds 40 1,459 1,696 The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 November 2012 and were signed on its behalf by: Roger Phillimore Chairman Simon Scott Chief Financial Officer
