Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES NICKEL estimates as at 31 December 2012 NICKEL The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 2004 as a minimum standard.
The gures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately.
Rounding of gures may cause computational discrepancies.
LOM Plan Total Inferred MINERAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO ORE RESERVES.
Mine Life The extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only.
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or Measured Resource after continued exploration.
Loma fide Nquel is not reported as the mining concessions expired in November 2012 and have not been renewed.
1 Barro Alto Ore Reserves: The decrease is due to a change in evaluation methodology resulting in re-allocation to Mineral Resources.
The decrease is partially offset by increases due to updated economic assumptions and new information enabling conversion of Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves.
In 2011 the reported Mine Life considered reserves plus Inferred in LOM Plan, however, in 2012 correctly considers only the scheduled Ore Reserves.
2 Niquelndia Ore Reserves: The increase is due to revised economic assumptions which are partially offset by a change in evaluation methodology resulting in re-allocation to Mineral Resources.
Niquelndia Mine is adjacent to the Codemin Ferro-Nickel smelter which is fed with ore from Barro Alto which is blended with Niquelndia ore to achieve an appropriate smelter feed chemistry.
3 Barro Alto Direct Feed: Mineral Resources are quoted above a 0.9 %Ni cut-off, below an iron content of 30 %Fe and between a SiO MgO CaO ratio of 1.72 to 1.8.
The decrease is due to 2 downgrading of Mineral Resources to Mineralised Inventory due to a change in resource classi cation which is partially offset by the change in evaluation methodology resulting in re-allocation to Mineral Resource.
A surface stockpile of 5.2 Mt at 1.48 %Ni is included in the Saprolite Mineral Resources.
4 Barro Alto Stockpile: Material that is scheduled for stockpiling or has already been mined and stockpiled.
A surface stockpile of 0.6 Mt at 1.19 %Ni is included in the Ferruginous Laterite Mineral Resources.
5 Niquelndia Mineral Resources: Mineral Resources are quoted above a 0.9 %Ni cut-off, below an Iron content of 30% Fe and between a SiO MgO CaO ratio of 1.72 to 1.8.
A change in the 2 economic assumptions enabled conversion of Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves which was partially offset by a change in evaluation methodology resulting in re-allocation to Mineral Resources.
6 Jacar: The Mineral Resources are reported within a pit shell developed for the Concept Study with a cut-off of 1.3 %Ni.
A minimum mineralised width of 1m must be present to allow material to be categorised as higher-grade Saprolite Mineral Resource.
The Saprolite Resources are a combination of higher-grade resources 1.3 %Ni that are expected to feed a pyrometallurgical treatment facility and lower-grade resources 1.3 0.9 %Ni that could be used to neutralise the acid in the proposed hydrometallurgical treatment of the Ferruginous Laterite material while still recovering Nickel in the process.
The Plano fide Aproveitamento Economico PAE is under consideration by Brazils Departamento Nacional fide Produo Mineral DNPM.
Audits related to the generation of the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were carried out by independent consultants during 2012 at the following operations: Barro Alto and Niquelndia.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 213
