ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES DEFINITIONS ORE RESERVES MINERAL RESOURCES An Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured and or A Mineral Resource is a concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances economic interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, quality and quantity for losses, which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
The assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a Mineral of and modi cation by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from speci c geological evidence marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
Mineral Resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could geological con dence, into Inferred, Indicated and Measured categories.
Ore Reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing A Measured Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which con dence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves.
tonnage, densities, shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral content A Proved Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured can be estimated with a high level of con dence.
It is based on detailed and Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses reliable exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modi cation workings and drill holes.
The locations are spaced closely enough to con rm by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, geological and grade continuity.
environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments An Indicated Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably tonnage, densities, shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral content be justi ed.
can be estimated with a reasonable level of con dence.
It is based on A Probable Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of an Indicated, exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through appropriate and in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the material is holes.
The locations are too widely or inappropriately spaced to con rm mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and geological and or grade continuity but are spaced closely enough for include consideration of and modi cation by realistically assumed mining, continuity to be assumed.
metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and An Inferred Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate at the time of tonnage, grade and mineral content can be estimated with a low level of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justi ed.
It is inferred from geological evidence and assumed but not veri ed geological and or grade continuity.
It is based on information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes which may be limited or of uncertain quality and reliability.
COMMON TERMINOLOGY Deposit A deposit is a concentration or occurrence of material of possible economic interest, in or on the earths crust, that may include mineralized material that cannot be estimated with suf cient con dence to be classi ed in the Inferred category.
Portions of a deposit that do not have reasonable and realistic prospects for eventual economic extraction are not included in a Mineral Resource.
Grade The relative quantity, percentage or quality, of a metal or mineral diamond content estimated to be contained within a deposit.
Cut-off grade A grade see grade units above which the Mineral Resource or Ore Reserve is reported as being potentially economic.
Run of Mine ROM The mined material delivered from the mine to the processing plant is called run-of-mine, or ROM.
This is the raw unprocessed mineralised material and includes mineralised rock and varying amounts of internal and external contamination either unmineralised rock or mineralised material below the cut-off grade.
Contamination is usually introduced by the mining process to ensure all the mineralised material is mined or to provide a minimum mining height.
ROM material can have highly variable moisture content and maximum particle size.
Inferred in LOM Plan Inferred ex.
LOM Plan Inferred in LOM Plan : Inferred Resources within the scheduled Life of Mine Plan LOM Plan.
LOM Plan : The portion of Inferred Resources with reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction not considered in the Life of Mine Plan LOM Plan.
Mine Life The extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only.
This is the current view of the period of production based on current Ore Reserve tonnes and average annual planned production rate.
Life of Mine Plan A design and costing study of an existing operation in which appropriate assessments have been made of realistically assumed geological, mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social, governmental, engineering, operational and all other modifying factors, which are considered in suf cient detail to demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction is reasonably justi ed.
228 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012
