Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES MANGANESE estimates as at 31 December 2012 SAMANCOR MANGANESE The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 2004 and The South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves The SAMREC Code, 2007 Edition as amended July 2009 as applicable.
The gures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources source: BHP Billiton, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately.
Rounding of gures may cause computational discrepancies.
Mine Life The extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only.
Mamatwan tonnages stated as wet metric tonnes.
Wessels and GEMCO tonnages stated as dry metric tonnes.
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or Measured Resource after continued exploration.
1 GEMCO Ore Reserves: Manganese grades are given as per washed ore samples and should be read together with their respective yields.
The change is due to depletion from mining.
2 Mamatwan Ore Reserves: The change is due to depletion from mining.
3 Wessels Ore Reserves: The decrease is mainly due to the re-delineation of the suboutcrop positions of the orebodies, based on new borehole information 4 GEMCO Mineral Resources: The change is due to depletion from mining.
5 Mamatwan Mineral Resources: A cut-off grade of 35% Mn is used to declare Mineral Resources within the M, C and N Zones at Mamatwan.
Mineral Resources have also been declared from the XZone, using a cut-off of 35% Mn, however, the Top Cut Resources comprising a total of 43.1 Mt are declared above a cut-off of 28% Mn.
The change is due to depletion from mining and re-running the geological model.
6 Wessels Mineral Resources: The decrease is mainly due to the re-delineation of the suboutcrop positions of the orebodies, based on new borehole information.
7 Beniomi and Bordeaux: Mn grades are for 0.15mm screen size fraction and should be read together with their respective tonnage yields.
The Gabon Mining Concession and Mining Convention remain subject to ongoing negotiation.
NoOre Reserves are yet reportable.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 199
