FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES accounting except when classi ed as held for sale.
The Groups share of Basis of preparation associates net income is based on their most recent audited financial The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International statements or unaudited interim statements drawn up to the Groups balance Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee sheet date.
IFRIC interpretations as adopted for use by the European Union, with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under The total carrying values of investments in associates represent the cost of IFRS and with the requirements of the Disclosure and Transparency rules of each investment including the carrying value of goodwill, the share of post the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom as applicable to acquisition retained earnings, any other movements in reserves and any long periodic financial reporting.
The financial statements have been prepared term debt interests which in substance form part of the Groups net under the historical cost convention as modi ed by the revaluation of pension investment.
The carrying values of associates are reviewed on a regular basis assets and liabilities and certain financial instruments.
A summary of the and if an impairment in value has occurred, the carrying value is impaired in principal Group accounting policies is set out below.
the period in which the relevant circumstances are identi ed.
The Groups share of an associates losses in excess of its interest in that associate is not The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted recognised unless the Group has an obligation to fund such losses.
accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Although these estimates are based on managements best Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way, but only to the extent that knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ there is no evidence of impairment.
Jointly controlled entities Going concern A jointly controlled entity is an entity in which the Group holds a long term The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a interest and shares joint control over strategic, financial and operating reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate decisions with one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenditure and cash Thus the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial ows of such jointly controlled entities are accounted for using proportionate statements continues to be adopted.
Further details are contained in the consolidation.
Proportionate consolidation combines the Groups share of the Directors report on page 128. results of the joint venture entity on a line by line basis with similar items in the Groups financial statements.
Changes in accounting policies and disclosures A number of amendments to accounting standards issued by the International Jointly controlled operations Accounting Standards Board IASB were applicable from 1 January 2012.
The Group has contractual arrangements with other participants to engage They have not had a material impact on the accounting policies, methods of in joint activities other than through a separate entity.
The Group includes its computation or presentation applied by the Group.
assets, liabilities, expenditure and its share of revenue in such joint venture operations with similar items in the Groups financial statements.
Changes in estimates Due to the nature of Platinum in-process inventories being contained in weirs, Revenue recognition pipes and other vessels, physical counts only take place annually, except in Revenue is derived principally from the sale of goods and is measured at the the Precious Metal Re nery which take place once every three years the fairvalue of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, latest being in 2010.
Consequently, the Platinum business runs a theoretical volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
Sales of concentrate are metal inventory system based on inputs, the results of previous physical stated at their invoiced amount which is net of treatment and re ning charges.
Once the results of the physical count are nalised, the Asale is recognised when the signi cant risks and rewards of ownership have variance between the theoretical count and actual count is investigated and passed.
This is usually when title and insurance risk have passed to the recorded as a change in estimate.
customer and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location.
During the year ended 31 December 2012, the change in estimate following Revenue from metal mining activities is based on the payable metal sold.
the annual physical count has had the effect of increasing the value of Sales of certain commodities are provisionally priced such that the price is not inventory by $172 million 2011: $61 million, resulting in the recognition settled until a predetermined future date based on the market price at that time.
ofagain in the income statement.
Revenue on these sales is initially recognised when the above criteria are met Basis of consolidation at the current market price.
Provisionally priced sales are marked to market at The financial statements incorporate a consolidation of the financial statements each reporting date using the forward price for the period equivalent to that of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
Control outlined in the contract.
This mark to market adjustment is recognised in revenue.
is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and Revenues from the sale of material by-products are included within revenue.
operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain bene ts from its activities.
Where a by-product is not regarded as signi cant, revenue may be credited The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are against the cost of sales.
included in the income statement from the effective date of acquisition or Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries, joint Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders ventures and associates to bring their accounting policies into line with those rights to receive payment have been established.
Intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation, where appropriate.
Business combinations and goodwill arising thereon For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, a share of the pro t or loss for the The identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, financial year and net assets or liabilities is attributed to the non-controlling ajoint venture entity or an associate, which can be measured reliably, are interests as shown in the income statement and balance sheet.
recorded at their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill isthe fair value of the consideration transferred including contingent Associates consideration and previously held non-controlling interests less the fair value Associates are investments over which the Group is in a position to exercise of the Groups share of identi able net assets on acquisition.
signi cant in uence, but not control or joint control, through participation in Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously held the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Typically the interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition Group owns between 20% and 50% of the voting equity of its associates.
date and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
142 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Non-mining licences and other intangibles Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date Non-mining licences and other intangibles are measured at cost less that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible reclassi ed to the income statement, where such treatment would be assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or legal rights and the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Transaction costs incurred in connection with the business combination are Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, usually expensed.
Provisional fair values are nalised within 12months of the between 3 and 20 years, except goodwill and those intangible assets that acquisition date.
areconsidered tohave inde nite lives.
For intangible assets with a nite life, Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint ventures is included within the amortisation period is determined as the period over which the Group intangible assets.
Goodwill relating to associates is included within the expects toobtain bene ts from the asset, taking account of all relevant facts carrying value of theassociate.
and circumstances including contractual lives and expectations about the renewal of contractual arrangements without signi cant incremental costs.
Where the fair value of the identi able net assets acquired exceeds the cost of An intangible asset is deemed to have an inde nite life when, based on an the acquisition, the surplus, which represents the discount on the acquisition, analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the period is recognised directly in the income statement in the period of acquisition.
over which the asset is expected to generate cash ows for the Group.
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, non-controlling interests are initially Amortisation methods, residual values and estimated useful lives are recorded at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair values of reviewed at leastannually.
net assets recognised at acquisition.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible Property, plant and equipment assets excluding goodwill Mining properties and leases include the cost of acquiring and developing At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its mining properties and mineral rights.
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether Mining properties are depreciated to their residual values using the unit there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
If such an indication of production method based on proven and probable ore reserves and, exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine in certain limited circumstances, other mineral resources.
Mineral resources the extent of any impairment.
Where the asset does not generate cash ows are included in depreciation calculations where there is a high degree of that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable con dence that they will be extracted in an economic manner.
For diamond amount of the cash generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
An operations, depreciation calculations are based on mineral reserves and intangible asset with an inde nite useful life is tested for impairment annually resources included in the Life of MinePlan.
Depreciation is charged on new and whenever there is an indication that the asset may beimpaired.
mining ventures from the date that the mining property is capable of Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in commercial production.
When there is little likelihood of a mineral right being use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted exploited, or the value of the exploitable mineral right has diminished below to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that re ects current cost, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks speci c to the For open pit operations the removal of overburden or waste ore is required asset for which estimates of future cash ows have not been adjusted.
toobtain access to the orebody.
To the extent that the actual waste material If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than removed per tonne of ore mined known as the stripping ratio is higher than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced the average stripping ratio, costs associated with this process are deferred to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income and charged to operating costs using the expected average stripping ratio statement as a special item.
over the life of the area being mined.
This re ects the fact that waste removal Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount is necessary to gain access to the orebody and therefore realise future of the asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable economic bene t. The average stripping ratio is calculated as the number amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the oftonnes of waste material expected to be removed during the Mine Life, carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment been pertonne of ore expected to be mined.
The cost of stripping in any period recognised for the asset or CGU.
A reversal of an impairment loss is willtherefore be re ective of the average stripping ratio for the orebody as recognised in the income statement as a special item.
awhole applied to the actual stripping costs incurred.
However, where the pit pro le is such that the actual stripping ratio is cumulatively below the average, Impairment of goodwill no deferral takes place as this would result in the recognition of a liability for Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the group of CGUs which there is no obligation.
Instead, this position is monitored and when the that is expected to bene t from synergies of the combination, and represents cumulative calculation re ects a debit balance, deferral commences.
The the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored by the Groups board of average Mine Life stripping ratio is recalculated annually in light of additional directors for internal management purposes.
The recoverable amount of the knowledge and changes in estimates.
Changes in the Mine Life stripping ratio CGU or group of CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated, is tested for are accounted for prospectively as a change in estimate.
impairment annually, or when events or changes in circumstances indicate Properties in the course of construction are measured at cost less any that it may be impaired.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement as for their intended use.
Buildings and plant and equipment are depreciated to aspecial item.
Impairment of goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
their residual values at varying rates on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives or the Mine Life, whichever is shorter.
Estimated useful Exploration, evaluation and development expenditure lives normally vary from up to 20 years for items of plant and equipment to a Exploration and evaluation expenditure is expensed in the year in which it is maximum of 50 years for buildings.
When a decision is taken that a mining property is economically When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful feasible, all subsequent evaluation expenditure is capitalised within property, lives, they are accounted for as separate items major components.
plant and equipment including, where applicable, directly attributable pre-production development expenditure.
Capitalisation of such expenditure Depreciation methods, residual values and estimated useful lives are ceases when the mining property is capable of commercial production.
Exploration properties acquired are recognised in the balance sheet at cost Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease less any accumulated impairment losses.
Such properties and capitalised term and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
evaluation and pre-production development expenditure prior to commercial Gains or losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined production are assessed for impairment in accordance with the Groups by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount.
The gain accounting policy stated above.
or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 143 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable that suf cient taxable Inventory pro t will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Inventory and work in progress are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The production cost of inventory includes an appropriate Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the proportion of depreciation and production overheads.
Cost is determined period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on the laws on the following bases: that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Raw materials and consumables are measured at cost on a first in, first out Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when FIFO basis or a weighted average cost basis.
itrelates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the Finished products are measured at raw material cost, labour cost and deferred tax is also taken directly to equity.
aproportion of manufacturing overhead expenses.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes Metal and coal stocks are included within nished products and are levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its measured at average cost.
current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis in that taxation authority.
At precious metals operations that produce joint products, cost is allocated Leases amongst products according to the ratio of contribution of these metals to In addition to lease contracts, other signi cant contracts are assessed to gross sales revenues.
determine whether, in substance, they are or contain a lease.
This includes Retirement bene ts assessment of whether the arrangement is dependent on use of a speci c The Group operates both fide ned bene t and fide ned contribution pension asset and the right to use that asset is conveyed through the contract.
plans for its employees as well as post employment medical plans.
For Rental costs under operating leases are recognised in the income statement fide ned contribution plans the amount recognised in the income statement is in equal annual amounts over the lease term.
Finance lease assets are the contributions paid or payable during the year.
recognised as assets of the Group on inception of the lease at the lower of fair For fide ned bene t pension and post employment medical plans, full actuarial value or the present value of the minimum lease payments discounted at the valuations are carried out every three years using the projected unit credit interest rate implicit in the lease.
method and updates are performed for each financial year end.
The average Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale discount rate for the plans liabilities is based on AA rated corporate bonds of Non-current assets and disposal groups are classi ed as held for sale if their a suitable duration and currency or, where there is no deep market for such carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than bonds, is based on government bonds.
Pension plan assets are measured through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is using year end market values.
highly probable within one year from the date of classi cation, management Actuarial gains and losses, which can arise from differences between expected iscommitted to the sale and the asset or disposal group is available for and actual outcomes or changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediate sale in its present condition.
immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Any increase in the Non-current assets and disposal groups are classi ed as held for sale from present value of plan liabilities expected to arise from employee service the date these conditions are met and are measured at the lower of carrying during the year is charged to operating pro t. The expected return on plan amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any resulting impairment loss is assets and the expected increase during the year in the present value of plan recognised in the income statement as a special item.
On classi cation as liabilities are included in investment income and interest expense respectively.
held for sale the assets are no longer depreciated.
Comparative amounts Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the bene ts are are not adjusted.
already vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the bene ts vest.
Environmental restoration and decommissioning obligations An obligation to incur environmental restoration, rehabilitation and The retirement bene t obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents decommissioning costs arises when disturbance is caused by the the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation as adjusted for unrecognised development or ongoing production of a mining property.
Such costs past service costs and as reduced by the fair value of plan assets.
Any asset arising from the decommissioning of plant and other site preparation work, resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present discounted to their net present value, are provided for and capitalised at the value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
Tax These costs are recognised in the income statement over the life of the The tax expense includes the current tax and deferred tax charge recognised operation, through the depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the in the income statement.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage which is created on an ongoing basis during production are provided for Current tax payable is based on taxable pro t for the year.
Taxable pro t at their net present values and recognised in the income statement as differs from net pro t as reported in the income statement because it extraction progresses.
excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are not taxable or deductible.
The Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been plant or other site preparation work that result from changes in the estimated enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
timing or amount of the cash ow or a change in the discount rate, are added to or deducted from the cost of the related asset in the current period.
If a Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the decrease in the liability exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and is recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the asset value is the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally increased and there is an indication that the revised carrying value is not recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recoverable, an impairment test is performed in accordance with the recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable pro ts will be available accounting policy set out above.
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the For some South African operations annual contributions are made to initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction other dedicated environmental rehabilitation trusts to fund the estimated cost of than in a business combination that affects neither taxable pro t nor rehabilitation during and at the end of the life of the relevant mine.
The Group accounting pro t. exercises full control of these trusts and therefore the trusts are consolidated.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences The trusts assets are disclosed separately on the balance sheet as nonarising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates except current assets.
The trusts assets are measured based on the nature of the where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference underlying assets in accordance with accounting policies for similar assets.
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
144 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements The discount provided or value given is calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued and included in the determination of the pro t or loss on disposal.
Foreign currency transactions and translation Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are recognised in the Employee bene t trust functional currencies of the companies at the exchange rate ruling on the date Shares held by the employee bene t trust are recorded as own shares, of the transaction.
At each reporting date, monetary assets and liabilities that and the carrying value is shown as a reduction within shareholders equity.
are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the reporting date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in Financial instruments the income statement for the period and are classi ed as either operating or Financial assets nancing depending on the nature of the monetary item giving rise to them.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and on demand deposits, Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical together with short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date to a known amount of cash and that are subject to an insigni cant risk of of the transaction.
Bank overdrafts are shown within short term borrowings in On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash are translated into the presentation currency of the Group at exchange rates ow statement are shown net of overdrafts.
Cash and cash equivalents are prevailing on the reporting date.
Income and expense items are translated at measured at amortised cost.
the average exchange rates for the period where these approximate the rates at the dates of the transactions.
Any exchange differences arising are Trade receivables classi ed within the statement of comprehensive income and transferred to Trade receivables do not incur any interest, are principally short term in nature the Groups cumulative translation adjustment reserve.
Exchange differences and are measured at their nominal value with the exception of receivables on foreign currency balances with foreign operations for which settlement is relating to provisionally priced sales, as set out in the revenue recognition neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future and therefore accounting policy, net of appropriate allowance for estimated irrecoverable form part of the Groups net investment in these foreign operations are offset amounts.
Such allowances are raised based on an assessment of debtor in the cumulative translation adjustment reserve.
ageing, past experience or known customer circumstances.
Investments Cumulative translation differences are recycled from equity and recognised Investments, other than investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and as income or expense on disposal of the operation to which they relate.
associates, are financial asset investments and are initially recognised at fair Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of foreign entities value.
At subsequent reporting dates, financial assets that the Group has the are treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated at the closingrate.
expressed intention and ability to hold to maturity held to maturity as well as loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost, less any impairment Presentation currency losses.
The amortisation of any discount or premium on the acquisition of As permitted by UK company law, the Groups results are presented in US aheld to maturity investment is recognised in the income statement in each dollars, the currency in which its business is primarily conducted.
period using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs Investments other than those classi ed as held to maturity or loans and Interest on borrowings directly relating to the nancing of qualifying capital receivables are classi ed as either at fair value through pro t or loss which projects under construction is added to the capitalised cost of those projects includes investments held for trading or available for sale financial assets.
during the construction phase, until such time as the assets are substantially Both categories are subsequently measured at fair value.
Where investments ready for their intended use or sale which, in the case of mining properties, are held for trading purposes, unrealised gains and losses for the period are iswhen they are capable of commercial production.
Where funds have been included in the income statement within other gains and losses.
For available borrowed speci cally to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents for sale investments, unrealised gains and losses are recognised in equity until the actual borrowing costs incurred.
Where the funds used to finance a the investment is disposed of or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or project form part of general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated loss previously recognised in equity is included in the income statement.
using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings Current financial asset investments consist mainly of bank term deposits and of the Group during the period.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in xed and oating rate debt securities.
Debt securities that are intended to be the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
held to maturity are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest Share-based payments method.
Debt securities that are not intended to be held to maturity are The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
recorded at the lower of cost and market value.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all Impairment of financial assets including receivables grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as at A financial asset not measured at fair value through pro t or loss is assessed 1January 2005. at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates The Group makes equity settled share-based payments to certain employees, that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset.
which are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost shares that will eventually vest.
For those share schemes with market related is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present vesting conditions, the fair value is determined using the Monte Carlo method value of the estimated cash ows discounted at the assets original effective at the grant date.
The fair value of share options issued with non-market vesting interest rate.
Losses are recognised in the income statement.
When a conditions has been calculated using the Black Scholes model.
For all other subsequent event causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the share awards, the fair value is determined by reference to the market value of decrease in impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
the shares at the grant date.
For all share schemes with non-market vesting Impairment losses relating to available for sale investments are recognised conditions, the likelihood of vesting has been taken into account when when the decline in fair value is considered signi cant or prolonged.
Vesting assumptions are reviewed during These impairment losses are recognised by transferring the cumulative each reporting period to ensure they re ect current expectations.
loss that has been recognised in the statement of comprehensive income Black economic empowerment BEE transactions to the income statement.
The loss recognised in the income statement is Where the Group disposes of a portion of a South African based subsidiary the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value.
or operation to a BEE company at a discount to fair value, the transaction is considered to be a share-based payment in line with the principle contained in South Africa interpretation AC 503 Accounting for Black Economic Empowerment BEE Transactions.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 145 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The corresponding entry, along with gains or losses from remeasuring the 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued associated derivative, are recognised in the income statement.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classi ed and accounted for The gain or loss on hedging instruments relating to the effective portion as debt or equity according to the substance of the contractual arrangements ofanet investment hedge is recognised in equity part of the cumulative entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual translation adjustment reserve.
The ineffective portion is recognised interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
immediately in the income statement.
Gains or losses accumulated in the cumulative translation adjustment reserve are included in the income Equity instruments statement on disposal of the foreign operations to which they relate.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, revoked, or no longer quali es for hedge accounting.
Trade payables At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised Trade payables are not interest bearing and are measured at their nominal inequity is retained until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedge transaction value with the exception of amounts relating to purchases of provisionally isno longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss previously priced concentrate which are marked to market using the appropriate recognised in equity is included in the income statement for the period.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that are not designated Convertible debt in a hedge relationship are recognised immediately in the income statement Convertible bonds are classi ed as compound instruments, consisting of and are classi ed within other gains and losses or net finance costs aliability and an equity component.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the depending on the type of risk to which the derivative relates.
liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt and is recognised within borrowings and carried Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or nonfinancial host atamortised cost.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and convertible bond and the fair value assigned to the liability component, characteristics are not closely related to those of their host contracts and the representing the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the host contracts themselves are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains Group, is included in equity.
or losses reported inthe income statement.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities of the convertible bonds where appropriate based on their relative carrying Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash ows from amounts at the date of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component the asset has expired, the right to receive cash ows has been retained but ischarged directly against equity.
an obligation to on-pay them in full without material delay has been assumed or the right to receive cash ows has been transferred together with The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
the effective interest rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability component of the instrument.
The difference between this amount and Financial liabilities are derecognised when the associated obligation has the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the liability.
been discharged, cancelled or has expired.
Bank borrowings New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair not yet adopted value, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
Finance charges, The following new or amended IFRS accounting standards and interpretations including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue not yet adopted are expected to have a signi cant impact on the Group: costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
They are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classi cation and Measurement re ects the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
first phase of the IASBs three stage project to replace IAS 39.
The first phase deals with the classi cation and measurement of financial assets and financial Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting liabilities.
The standard applies to annual periods beginning on or after In order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and 1January 2015. commodity price risk, the Group enters into forward, option and swap contracts.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements replaces IAS31 Interests in Joint Ventures and speculative purposes.
Commodity based normal purchase or normal sale SIC-13 Jointly-controlled Entities Non-monetary Contributions by Venturers.
contracts that meet the scope exemption in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Under IFRS 11 a joint arrangement is classi ed as either a joint operation or a Recognition and Measurement are recognised in earnings when they are joint venture, and the option to proportionately consolidate joint ventures has settled by physical delivery.
Interests in joint ventures must be equity accounted.
This standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1January 2014 All derivatives are held at fair value in the balance sheet within Derivative although early adoption is permitted.
financial assets or Derivative financial liabilities except if they are linked to settlement and delivery of an unquoted equity instrument and the fair IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities will accompany IFRS 10 value cannot be measured reliably, in which case they are carried at cost.
Consolidated Financial Statements and IFRS 11.
This standard combines the Aderivative cannot be measured reliably where the range of reasonable disclosure requirements previously covered by IAS 27 Consolidated and fair value estimates is signi cant and the probabilities of various estimates Separate Financial Statements, related to consolidated financial statements, cannot be reasonably assessed.
IAS 31 and IAS 28 Investments in Associates, as well as including additional disclosure requirements.
This standard is effective for annual periods Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are beginning on orafter 1 January 2014 although early adoption is permitted.
designated and effective as hedges of future cash ows cash ow hedges are recognised directly in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine provides portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the cash ow a model for accounting for costs associated with the removal of waste hedge of a rm commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition during the production phase of a surface mine, including guidance on the of a nonfinancial asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is apportionment of the costs incurred for obtaining a current and future bene t recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had and how capitalised costs are depreciated.
This interpretation applies to previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. of the asset or liability.
As explained above, the Group currently defers costs associated with the For hedges that do not result in the recognition of a nonfinancial asset or removal of overburden or waste material such that the cost of stripping in any liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement period is re ective of the average stripping ratio for the orebody as a whole inthe same period in which the hedged item affects pro t or loss.
For an applied to the actual stripping costs incurred.
Amounts deferred on this basis effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged item is will only be carried forward under IFRIC 20 where they relate to existing adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
146 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements adverse changes in capital, operating, mining, processing and reclamation 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued costs, discount rates and foreign exchange rates used to determine Amounts deferred to date which do not relate to existing components ofthe mineralreserves orebody will be written off to reserves.
For property, plant and equipment depreciated on a straight line basis over The following new or amended IFRS accounting standards not yet adopted its useful economic life, management reviews the appropriateness of useful are not expected to have a signi cant impact on the Group: economic life at least annually and any changes could affect prospective IFRS 10 replaces the portion of IAS 27 that addresses accounting for depreciation rates and asset carrying values.
consolidated financial statements and SIC-12 Consolidation Special Impairment of assets Purpose Entities.
IFRS 10 provides a single basis for consolidation with a new In making assessments for impairment, management necessarily applies its fide nition of control.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on judgement in allocating assets that do not generate independent cash ows or after 1 January 2014 although early adoption is permitted.
to appropriate CGUs, and also in estimating the timing and value of underlying IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement provides a single framework for all fair cash ows within the calculation of recoverable amount.
Factors which could value measurements and applies to annual periods beginning on or after impact underlying cash ows include: 1January 2013. commodity prices and exchange rates The amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements requires items timelines of granting of licences and permits to be grouped in other comprehensive income based on whether those items capital and operating expenditure are subsequently reclassi ed to pro t or loss.
The amendment is to be applied available reserves and resources and future production pro le for annual periods beginning on or after 1July 2012.
Subsequent changes to the CGU allocation or to the timing of or assumptions The amendment to IAS 19 Employee Bene ts is to be applied retrospectively used to determine cash ows could impact the carrying value of the for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. respective assets, see note 14.
Amendments have been made to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Fair valuation of net assets on acquisition Statements and it has been reissued as IAS 27 Separate Financial The Group applies the acquisition method of accounting for acquisitions.
The revised standard prescribes the accounting and disclosure Thisrequires all identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of requirements for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates asubsidiary, joint venture entity or an associate acquired on the date control when an entity prepares separate financial statements.
The accounting and isobtained, which can be measured reliably, to be recognised at their disclosure requirements for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and provisional fair values at the date of acquisition.
associates in consolidated financial statements are prescribed by IFRS 10, The fair value of identi able assets and liabilities is determined using IFRS 11 and IFRS 12.
The revised standard is to be applied for annual periods discounted cash ows or other valuation techniques using assumptions beginning on or after 1 January 2014 although early adoption is permitted.
considered to be reasonable and consistent with those that would be applied Amendments have been made to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and it by a market participant.
The assessment of assumptions used in determining hasbeen reissued as IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
the fair value of identi able assets and liabilities is inherently subjective and The revised standard prescribes the application of the equity method when the use of inaccurate valuation assumptions could result in a signi cant accounting for investments in associates and joint ventures.
The revised impact on financial results.
standard is to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after Restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs 1January2014 although early adoption is permitted.
Costs for restoration of site damage, rehabilitation and environmental costs Amendments to IFRS 1 Government loans and to IFRS 7 Disclosures are estimated using either the work of external consultants or internal Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities are effective for annual experts.
Management uses its judgement and experience to provide for and periods beginning on or after 1January 2013. amortise these estimated costs over the life ofthe mine.
The amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments Presentation is effective Retirement bene ts for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The expected costs of providing pensions and post employment bene ts under fide ned bene t arrangements relating to employee service during the Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation period are determined based on financial and actuarial assumptions.
and uncertainty In the course of preparing financial statements, management necessarily Assumptions in respect of the expected costs are set after consultation with makes judgements and estimates that can have a signi cant impact on the quali ed actuaries.
While management believes the assumptions used are financial statements.
The most critical of these relate to estimation of the appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would impact the Groups ore reserves and useful economic lives of assets, impairment of assets, fair other comprehensive income going forward.
valuation of net assets on acquisition, restoration, rehabilitation and Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through pro t and loss environmental costs, retirement bene ts, financial assets and liabilities at fair The fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities held at fair value value through pro t and loss andcontingent liabilities.
These are detailed though pro t and loss represents the market value of quoted investments and below.
The use of inaccurate assumptions in calculations for any of these other traded instruments where available.
For financial assets and liabilities estimates could result in a signi cant impact on financial results.
held at fair value through pro t and loss for which market prices are not Ore Reserve estimates and useful economic lives of assets readily available, fair value is determined using discounted cash ows or When determining Ore Reserves, which may be used to calculate depreciation other valuation techniques using assumptions considered to be reasonable on the Groups mining properties, assumptions that were valid at the time of and consistent with those that would be used by a market participant.
estimation may change when new information becomes available.
Any changes The assessment of assumptions used in applying valuation techniques is could affect prospective depreciation rates andasset carrying values.
inherently subjective and the use of inaccurate assumptions could result in asigni cant impact on financial results.
The calculation of the unit of production rate of amortisation could be impacted to the extent that actual production in the future is different from current forecast Contingent liabilities production based on proven and probable mineral reserves.
Factors which could On an ongoing basis the Group is a party to various legal disputes, the impact useful economic lives of assets and Ore Reserve estimates include: outcomes of which cannot be assessed with a high degree of certainty.
changes to Proved and Probable Reserves Aliability is recognised where, based on the Groups legal views and advice, the grade of Ore Reserves varying signi cantly from time to time itis considered probable that an out ow of resources will be required to settle differences between actual commodity pricesand commodity price a present obligation that can be measured reliably.
Disclosure of other assumptions usedin the estimation of mineral reserves contingent liabilities is made in note 35 unless the possibility of a loss arising renewal of mining licences is considered remote.
unforeseen operational issues at mine sites Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 147 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION The Groups segments are aligned to the structure of business units based around core commodities.
Each business unit has a management team that isaccountable to the Chief Executive.
The Kumba Iron Ore, Iron Ore Brazil and Samancor business units have been aggregated as the Iron Ore and Manganese segment on the basis of the ultimate product produced ferrous metals.
Phosphates and Niobium previously Copebrs and Catalo are reported in the Other Mining and Industrial segment.
Following a strategic review during the first half of the year, Amap was transferred to the Other Mining and Industrial business unit, and accordingly is presented as part of the Other Mining and Industrial segment.
It was previously reported as part of the Iron Ore and Manganese segment.
Comparatives have been reclassi ed to align with current year presentation.
Tarmac is not considered to be individually signi cant to the Group and is therefore also presented in the Other Mining and Industrial segment.
Until November 2012 this reporting segment also included Scaw South Africa.
On 16 August 2012 the Group acquired a controlling interest in fide Beers Diamonds segment.
Until this date fide Beers was accounted for as an associate of the Group.
From 16 August 2012 fide Beers ceased to be an associate and has been accounted for as a subsidiary of the Group.
For details of this acquisition, see note 32.
The Groups Executive Committee evaluates the financial performance of the Group and its segments principally with reference to underlying operating pro t. Underlying operating pro t is presented before special items and remeasurements and includes the Groups attributable share of associates operating pro t before special items and remeasurements.
Segment revenue includes the Groups attributable share of associates revenue.
Segments predominantly derive revenue as follows Iron Ore and Manganese: iron ore, manganese ore and alloys: Metallurgical Coal: metallurgical coal: Thermal Coal: thermal coal: Copper and Nickel: base metals: Platinum: platinum group metals: Diamonds: rough and polished diamonds and diamond jewellery: and Other Mining and Industrial: phosphates, niobium, heavy building materials, iron ore, and, until November 2012, steel products.
The Exploration segment includes the cost of the Groups exploration activities across all segments.
The segment results are stated after elimination of inter-segment transactions and include an allocation of corporate costs.
Analysis by segment Revenue and operating loss pro t by segment Underlying operating 1 2 Revenue loss pro t US$ million 2012 2011 2012 2011 Iron Ore and Manganese 6,403 7,643 2,949 4,400 Metallurgical Coal 3,889 4,347 405 1,189 Thermal Coal 3,447 3,722 793 1,230 Copper 5,122 5,144 1,687 2,461 Nickel 336 488 26 57 Platinum 5,489 7,359 120 890 Diamonds 4,028 3,320 496 659 Other Mining and Industrial 4,066 4,520 337 315 Exploration 206 121 Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs 5 5 203 15 Segment measure 32,785 36,548 6,164 11,095 Reconciliation: Less: associates 4,024 5,968 759 1,427 Operating special items and remeasurements 7,093 229 Statutory measure 28,761 30,580 1,688 9,439 1 Segment revenue includes the Groups attributable share of associates revenue.
This is reconciled to Group revenue from subsidiaries and joint ventures as presented in the Consolidated income statement.
2 Segment underlying operating loss pro t is revenue less operating costs before special items and remeasurements, and includes the Groups attributable share of associates operating pro t before special items and remeasurements.
This is reconciled to operating loss pro t from subsidiaries and joint ventures after special items and remeasurements as presented in the Consolidated income statement.
Associates revenue and underlying operating pro t Associates underlying 1 Associates revenue operating pro t loss US$ million 2012 2011 2012 2011 Iron Ore and Manganese 831 926 104 165 Metallurgical Coal 315 372 111 207 Thermal Coal 970 1,080 355 482 Platinum 231 269 63 86 Diamonds 1,675 3,320 252 659 Other Mining and Industrial 2 1 4,024 5,968 759 1,427 Reconciliation: Associates net finance costs 58 48 Associates income tax expense 202 385 Associates non-controlling interests 6 16 Share of net income from associates before special items and remeasurements 493 978 Associates special items and remeasurements 57 5 Associates special items and remeasurements tax 3 1 Associates non-controlling interests on special items and remeasurements 1 3 Share of net income from associates 432 977 1 Associates underlying operating pro t loss is the Groups attributable share of associates revenue less operating costs before special items and remeasurements.
148 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 2.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION continued Non-cash items Signi cant non-cash items included within underlying operating pro t are as follows: 1 2 Depreciation and amortisation Other non-cash expenses US$ million 2012 2011 2012 2011 Iron Ore and Manganese 199 153 31 95 Metallurgical Coal 458 375 140 104 Thermal Coal 125 128 30 30 Copper 492 289 98 124 Nickel 24 27 25 10 Platinum 658 729 81 76 Diamonds 142 52 Other Mining and Industrial 148 225 59 83 Exploration 3 3 Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs 43 41 70 54 3 3 2,289 1,967 471 579 1 In addition the Groups attributable share of associates depreciation and amortisation is $233 million 2011: $286 million.
This is split by segment as follows: Iron Ore and Manganese $50million 2011: $33 million, Metallurgical Coal $14 million 2011: $13 million, Thermal Coal $54 million 2011: $52 million, Platinum $42 million 2011: $53 million and Diamonds $73million 2011:$135million.
2 Other non-cash expenses include equity settled share-based payment charges and amounts included in operating costs in respect of provisions, excluding amounts recorded within special items.
3 In addition $70 million 2011: $84 million of accelerated depreciation and $41 million 2011: nil of depreciation and amortisation charges arising due to the fair value uplift of the pre-existing 45% shareholding of fide Beers have been recorded within operating special items and remeasurements see note 5, and $81 million 2011: $39 million of pre-commercial production depreciation has been capitalised.
Capital expenditure and net debt 1 2 Capital expenditure Net debt US$ million 2012 2011 2012 2011 Iron Ore and Manganese 2,077 1,659 1,112 1,277 Metallurgical Coal 1,028 695 510 211 Thermal Coal 266 190 32 81 Copper 996 1,570 775 781 Nickel 100 398 477 603 Platinum 822 970 98 20 Diamonds 94 839 Other Mining and Industrial 260 225 45 272 Exploration 6 1 8 6 Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs 29 56 7,608 119 5,678 5,764 8,828 1,374 3 Net cash in disposal groups 213 8,615 1,374 Reconciliation: Remove: cash ows from derivatives relating to capital expenditure 71 439 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 5,607 6,203 Interest capitalised 280 321 4 Non-cash movements 120 27 Property, plant and equipment additions in disposal groups 50 2 5 Property, plant and equipment additions 5,957 6,549 1 Capital expenditure is segmented on a cash basis and is reconciled to balance sheet additions.
Cash capital expenditure includes cash ows on related derivatives.
2 Segment net debt includes related hedges and excludes net debt in disposal groups.
For a reconciliation of net debt to the balance sheet, see note 31b.
3 Previously reported within the Other Mining and Industrial segment, see note 34.
4 Includes movements on capital expenditure accruals, movements relating to deferred stripping and the impact of realised cash ow hedges.
5 Property, plant and equipment additions are split by segment as follows: Iron Ore and Manganese $2,143 million 2011: $2,052 million, Metallurgical Coal $980 million 2011: $681 million, Thermal Coal $277 million 2011: $231 million, Copper $1,069 million 2011: $1,877 million, Nickel $207 million 2011: $405 million, Platinum $865 million 2011: $1,014 million, Diamonds $172 million 2011: nil, Other Mining and Industrial $207 million 2011: $232 million, Exploration $6 million 2011: $1 million and Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs $31 million 2011:$56 million.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 149 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION continued Segment assets and liabilities The following balance sheet segment measures are provided for information: 1 2 Segment assets Segment liabilities Net segment assets liabilities US$ million 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Iron Ore and Manganese 9,837 12,909 481 482 9,356 12,427 Metallurgical Coal 6,078 5,660 859 968 5,219 4,692 Thermal Coal 2,726 2,650 761 764 1,965 1,886 Copper 9,662 8,767 1,126 1,124 8,536 7,643 Nickel 2,613 2,655 104 120 2,509 2,535 Platinum 11,490 12,288 1,071 1,097 10,419 11,191 Diamonds 14,412 1,468 12,944 Other Mining and Industrial 960 4,660 174 817 786 3,843 Exploration 8 2 4 3 4 1 Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs 424 375 709 584 285 209 58,210 49,966 6,757 5,959 51,453 44,007 Other assets and liabilities 3 Investments in associates 3,063 5,240 3,063 5,240 Financial asset investments 2,380 2,896 2,380 2,896 Deferred tax assets liabilities 1,223 530 6,069 5,730 4,846 5,200 Derivative financial assets liabilities 848 840 1,081 1,112 233 272 Cash and cash equivalents 9,094 11,732 9,094 11,732 Other non-operating assets liabilities 1,401 1,238 1,660 2,715 259 1,477 Borrowings 17,754 12,873 17,754 12,873 Other provisions for liabilities and charges 1,342 864 1,342 864 4 Assets liabilities classi ed as held for sale 3,150 919 2,231 Net assets 79,369 72,442 35,582 29,253 43,787 43,189 1 Segment assets are operating assets and consist of intangible assets of $4,571 million 2011: $2,322 million, property, plant and equipment of $45,089 million 2011:$40,549 million, environmental rehabilitation trusts of $393 million 2011: $360 million, biological assets of $19 million 2011: $17 million, retirement bene t assets of $176 million 2011: $70million, inventories of $5,005 million 2011: $3,517 million and operating receivables of $2,957 million 2011: $3,131 million.
2 Segment liabilities are operating liabilities and consist of non-interest bearing current liabilities of $3,742 million 2011: $3,982 million, environmental restoration and decommissioning provisions of $1,606 million 2011: $1,338 million and retirement bene t obligations of $1,409 million 2011: $639 million.
3 See note 17 for a split of investments in associates by segment.
4 Previously reported in the Other Mining and Industrial segment, see note 34.
Revenue by product The Groups analysis of segment revenue by product is as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 Iron ore 5,508 6,830 Manganese ore and alloys 831 926 Metallurgical coal 3,048 3,444 Thermal coal 4,287 4,621 Copper 5,038 5,023 Nickel 678 948 Platinum 3,441 4,578 Palladium 906 1,076 Rhodium 389 703 Diamonds 4,027 3,320 Phosphates 597 571 Heavy building materials 2,171 2,347 Steel products 798 931 Other 1,066 1,230 32,785 36,548 150 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 2.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION continued Geographical analysis Revenue by destination and non-current segment assets by location The Groups geographical analysis of segment revenue allocated based on the country in which the customer is located, and non-current segment assets, allocated based on the country in which the assets are located, is as follows: 1 Revenue Non-current segment assets US$ million 2012 2011 2012 2011 South Africa 3,115 3,589 16,452 15,215 Other Africa 715 618 8,029 357 Brazil 1,093 1,177 8,700 12,622 Chile 1,241 2,030 7,470 7,001 Other South America 46 50 623 655 North America 1,274 1,861 2,205 685 Australia 340 312 4,673 4,170 China 5,927 6,446 India 2,544 2,343 Japan 4,049 4,925 Other Asia 3,595 3,487 31 47 United Kingdom Anglo American plcs country of domicile 3,781 3,962 1,325 2,117 Other Europe 5,065 5,748 152 2 32,785 36,548 49,660 42,871 1 Non-current segment assets are non-current operating assets and consist of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
The geographical distribution of these investments, based on the location of the underlying assets, is disclosed in note 17.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 151 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
OPERATING LOSS PROFIT FROM SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES US$ million 2012 2011 Group revenue 28,761 30,580 1 Cost of sales 25,993 17,343 Gross pro t 2,768 13,237 Selling and distribution costs 2,031 1,788 Administrative expenses 2,127 2,034 Other gains and losses see below 92 145 Exploration expenditure see note 7 206 121 Operating loss pro t from subsidiaries and joint ventures 1,688 9,439 1 Includes operating special item charges of $6,977 million 2011: $164 million, see note 5.
Operating remeasurements are included in Other gains and losses, see below.
US$ million 2012 2011 Operating loss pro t is stated after charging crediting : 1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment see note 15 2,258 1,947 2 Amortisation of intangible assets see note 14 31 20 Rentals under operating leases 182 128 Project evaluation expenditure 525 418 Research and development expenditure 80 38 Operating special items see note 5 6,977 164 Employee costs see note 8 5,033 4,707 3 Adjustment due to provisional pricing 14 286 4 Royalties 554 742 Other gains and losses comprise: Operating remeasurements see note 5 116 65 Other fair value gains losses on derivatives realised 9 57 Foreign exchange gains on other monetary items 12 256 Fair value gains on biological assets 3 11 Total other gains and losses 92 145 1 In addition $70 million 2011: $84 million of accelerated depreciation and $35 million 2011: nil of depreciation arising due to the fair value uplift of the Groups pre-existing 45% shareholding in DeBeers have been recorded within operating special items and remeasurements see note 5 and $81 million 2011: $39 million of pre-commercial production depreciation has been capitalised.
2 In addition $6 million of amortisation arising due to the fair value uplift of the Groups pre-existing 45% shareholding in fide Beers has been included within operating remeasurements.
3 Provisionally priced contracts resulted in a total realised and unrealised gain in revenue of $37 million 2011: loss of $283 million and total realised and unrealised loss in operating costs of$23million 2011: $3 million.
4 Excludes those royalties which meet the fide nition of income tax on pro t and accordingly have been accounted for as taxes.
Auditor remuneration 2012 2011 Paid payable Paid payable to auditor if to auditor if Paid payable to Deloitte not Deloitte Paid payable to Deloitte not Deloitte United United US$ million Kingdom Overseas Total Overseas Kingdom Overseas Total Overseas Paid to the Companys auditor for audit ofthe Anglo American plc Annual Report 2.2 4.8 7.0 0.1 1.7 4.3 6.0 0.1 Paid to the Companys auditor for other services to the Group Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 1.1 4.8 5.9 1.1 0.7 3.2 3.9 0.6 Total audit fees 3.3 9.6 12.9 1.2 2.4 7.5 9.9 0.7 1 Audit related assurance services 0.8 1.0 1.8 0.5 0.8 1.3 0.1 Taxation compliance services 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 Taxation advisory services 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.4 0.3 0.7 0.2 2 Other assurance services 0.4 1.3 1.7 0.6 0.2 1.4 1.6 0.5 Total non-audit fees 1.4 2.7 4.1 1.0 1.1 2.6 3.7 0.9 1 Includes $1.3 million 2011: $1.3 million for the interim review.
2 Includes $0.1 million 2011: $0.1 million for the audit of Group pension plans.
152 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 4.
OPERATING PROFIT AND UNDERLYING EARNINGS BY SEGMENT The following table analyses operating pro t including attributable share of associates operating pro t by segment and reconciles it to underlying earnings by segment.
In 2012 Amap has been reclassi ed from the Iron Ore and Manganese segment to the Other Mining and Industrial segment to align with internal management reporting.
Comparatives have been reclassi ed to align with current presentation.
Underlying earnings is an alternative earnings measure, which the directors consider to be a useful additional measure of the Groups performance.
Underlying earnings is pro t for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company before special items and remeasurements and is therefore presented after net finance costs, income tax expense and non-controlling interests.
For a reconciliation from Loss pro t for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company to Underlying earnings for the financial year, see note 13.
2012 2011 Operating Operating Operating Net finance Operating Operating Operating Net finance pro t loss special pro t loss costs, income pro t loss special pro t loss costs, income before special items and after special tax expense before special items and after special tax expense items and remeasureitems and and nonitems and remeasureitems and and nonremeasurements remeasurecontrolling Underlying remeasurements remeasurecontrolling Underlying 1 1 US$ million ments note5 ments interests earnings ments note 5 ments interests earnings Iron Ore and Manganese 2,949 5,139 2,190 1,912 1,037 4,400 79 4,321 2,943 1,457 Metallurgical Coal 405 365 40 130 275 1,189 1,189 345 844 Thermal Coal 793 1 794 270 523 1,230 1 1,231 328 902 Copper 1,687 9 1,696 779 908 2,461 1 2,460 851 1,610 Nickel 26 184 158 15 11 57 72 15 34 23 Platinum 120 921 1,041 105 225 890 6 884 480 410 Diamonds 496 456 40 184 312 659 18 641 216 443 Other Mining and Industrial 337 28 309 108 229 315 70 245 140 175 Exploration 206 206 11 195 121 121 3 118 Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs 203 68 271 167 36 15 2 13 359 374 Total 6,164 7,151 987 3,325 2,839 11,095 247 10,848 4,975 6,120 Analysed as: Core operations 5,996 7,127 1,131 3,278 2,718 10,964 177 10,787 4,910 6,054 Non-core 2 operations 168 24 144 47 121 131 70 61 65 66 1 Operating pro t loss before special items and remeasurements includes attributable share of associates operating pro t before special items and remeasurements which is reconciled to Share of net income from associates in note 2.
2 Non-core operations relate to Amap, Tarmac and, until November 2012, Scaw South Africa.
Underlying earnings by origin US$ million 2012 2011 South Africa 1,449 2,726 Other Africa 357 326 South America 1,359 2,080 North America 198 218 Australia and Asia 336 967 Europe 464 197 2,839 6,120 5.
SPECIAL ITEMS AND REMEASUREMENTS Special items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the income statement to assist inthe understanding of the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group.
Such items are material by nature or amount to the years results and require separate disclosure in accordance with IAS 1 paragraph 97.
Special items that relate to the operating performance of the Group are classi ed as operating special items and principally include impairment charges.
Non-operating special items include pro ts and losses on disposals of investments and businesses as well as certain adjustments relating to business combinations.
Remeasurements comprise other items which the Group believes should be reported separately to aid an understanding of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
This category includes: Unrealised gains and losses on non-hedge derivative instruments open at the year end in respect of future transactions and the reversal of the historical marked to market value of such instruments settled in the year.
Where the underlying transaction is recorded in the income statement, the realised gains or losses are recorded in underlying earnings in the same year as the underlying transaction for which such instruments provide an economic, but not formally designated, hedge.
If the underlying transaction is recorded in the balance sheet, for example, capital expenditure, the realised amount remains in remeasurements on settlement of the derivative.
Such amounts are classi ed in the income statement as operating when the underlying exposure is in respect of the operating performance of the Group and otherwise as nancing.
Foreign exchange impacts arising in US dollar functional currency entities where tax calculations are generated based on local currency financial information and hence deferred tax is susceptible to currency uctuations.
Such amounts are included within income tax expense.
The remeasurement and subsequent depreciation of a previously held equity interest as a result of a business combination.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 153 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.
SPECIAL ITEMS AND REMEASUREMENTS continued 2012 2011 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries and joint and joint 1 1 US$ million ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total Impairment of Minas-Rio 4,960 4,960 Platinum operations 860 860 Cessation of Loma fide Nquel 159 159 84 84 Other impairments and related charges 168 62 230 70 70 Onerous contract provisions 386 386 Reversal of fide Beers inventory uplift 421 421 Restructuring costs 23 23 10 9 19 Operating special items 6,977 62 7,039 164 9 173 Operating remeasurements 116 4 112 65 9 74 Operating special items and remeasurements 7,093 58 7,151 229 18 247 Loss on transfer of Tarmac Quarry Materials to assets held for sale 135 135 Loss on transfer of Amap to assets held for sale 404 404 Disposal of Scaw South Africa 21 21 Disposal of Mondi 27 27 Disposal of Lisheen and Black Mountain 397 397 Disposal of Tarmac businesses 75 75 Kumba Envision Trust 77 77 Platinum BEE transactions and related charges 141 141 Other 16 16 22022 Non-operating special items 594 594 183 20 203 Non-operating remeasurement net gain on acquisition of fide Beers 1,988 1,988 Non-operating special items and remeasurements 1,394 1,394 183 20 203 Financing special items 9 9 Financing remeasurements 89 1 88 203 2 205 Total special items and remeasurements before tax and non-controlling interests 5,788 57 5,845 157 5 152 Special items and remeasurements tax 1,113 3 1,110 119 1 118 Non-controlling interests on special items and remeasurements 404 1 403 12 3 15 Net total special items and remeasurements attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 4,271 61 4,332 50 1 49 1 Relates to the Iron Ore and Manganese, Platinum and, until 16 August, Diamonds segment in 2012 2011: Diamonds only.
Operating special items Minas-Rio An impairment charge of $4,960 million has been recorded in relation to the Minas-Rio iron ore project Iron Ore Brazil.
Of this charge, $1,105 million has been recorded against goodwill and $3,855 million has been recorded against mining properties, with an associated deferred tax credit of $960 million.
Thepost-tax impairment charge is $4,000 million.
Platinum operations The impairment charge of $860 million relates to certain Platinum projects and other assets, not in use, that are not considered economically viable in the current market environment.
The charge includes a write-off of fair value uplifts associated with these assets held at a Group level of $89 million.
Cessation of Loma fide Nquel A charge of $159 million has arisen at Loma fide Nquel due to the cancellation of its mining concessions in November 2012.
The charge comprises $70 million of accelerated depreciation 2011: $84 million and $89 million of related closure and retrenchment costs, including inventory write-offs of $61 million.
Other impairments and related charges Other impairments and related charges of $230 million 2011: $70 million relate to various impairments across the Group, including an impairment of $42million of xed assets relating to onerous contracts at Callide Metallurgical Coal : an impairment of $44 million relating to Wesizwe, an available for sale asset held in Platinum where the fair value has had a signi cant and prolonged decline: and $50 million of asset impairments recognised in Samancor, anassociate investment.
In 2011 the $70 million charge related to the impairment of Tarmac Building Products.
Onerous contract provisions The charge of $386 million in relation to onerous contracts principally re ects a provision increase of $292 million for coal supply agreements inherited on acquisition of Callide in 2000.
The pricing in the agreements, which extend to 2031, is signi cantly below market rates resulting in the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations exceeding the economic bene t expected to be received from the contract.
The settlement of an unused inherited transhipment contract at Amap resulted in a charge of $43 million and the settlement of unutilised energy contracts atMinas-Rio resulted in a charge of $38 million.
Reversal of fide Beers inventory uplift Inventory held by fide Beers at the date of acquisition is required to be recognised at fair value under IFRS.
This results in negligible margins being realised uponthe subsequent sale of inventory held at the acquisition date.
The reversal of fair value uplifts on inventory sold in 2012 of $421 million has been excluded from the Groups underlying earnings so as not to distort the operating margins of fide Beers and to provide more useful information about the performance of the Group.
Operating remeasurements Operating remeasurements re ect a net loss of $112 million 2011: net loss of $74 million principally in respect of non-hedge derivatives related to capital expenditure in Iron Ore Brazil.
Derivatives which have been realised during the period had a cumulative net loss since their inception of $71 million 2011:net gain of $383million.
The depreciation and amortisation charge arising due to the fair value uplift on the pre-existing 45% shareholding of fide Beers, which was required onacquisition of a controlling stake, is $41 million in 2012.
154 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 5.
SPECIAL ITEMS AND REMEASUREMENTS continued Non-operating special items In May 2012 the Competition Commission approved the formation of a 50:50 joint venture between the Group and Lafarge combining their cement, aggregates, ready-mix concrete, asphalt and asphalt surfacing, maintenance services, and waste services businesses in the UK subject to a number of conditions being met.
In July 2012 the Group accepted the conditions of the Competition Commission and consequently the associated Tarmac Quarry Materials assets were classi ed as held for sale and recognised at fair value less costs to sell.
This resulted in a loss being recognised of $135 million.
In December 2012 the Group agreed the sale of its 70% interest in the Amap iron ore system.
The net assets have been reclassi ed to held for sale and recognised at fair value less costs to sell.
This resulted in a loss being recognised of $404 million.
The Group completed the sale of Scaw South Africa Pty Ltd Scaw South Africa, an integrated steel maker, in November 2012.
This resulted in a net cash in ow of $100 million, generating a loss on disposal of $21 million.
The Group sold its 5.28% shareholding in Mondi in November 2012 for net proceeds of $273 million, realising a net fair value gain recycled from reserves of$27 million.
The Kumba Envision Trust charge of $77 million relates to Kumbas broad based employee share scheme provided solely for the bene t of non-managerial Historically Disadvantaged South African employees who do not participate in other Kumba share schemes.
Non-operating remeasurement The non-operating remeasurement of $1,988 million 2011: nil re ects the net gain of $2,017 million, after transaction costs, resulting from the remeasurement to fair value of the Groups existing 45% shareholding held in fide Beers at the date a controlling stake was acquired.
This includes a $2.7 billion uplift on depreciable assets which will unwind through operating remeasurements in the current and future years.
Financing remeasurements Financing remeasurements re ect a net loss of $88 million 2011: net gain of $205 million and relates to an embedded interest rate derivative, non-hedge derivatives relating to debt and other nancing remeasurements.
Special items and remeasurements tax Special items and remeasurements tax amounted to a credit of $1,110 million 2011: charge of $118 million.
This relates to a credit for one-off tax items of $922 million 2011: credit of $137 million, a tax remeasurement charge of $189 million 2011: charge of $230 million and a tax credit on special items and remeasurements of $377 million 2011: charge of $25 million.
The total tax credit relating to subsidiaries and joint ventures of $1,113 million 2011: charge of $119 million comprises a current tax charge of $8 million 2011:charge of $12 million and a deferred tax credit of $1,121 million 2011: charge of $107 million.
The credit relating to one-off tax items of $922 million 2011: credit of $137 million relates principally to the net deferred tax credit of $960 million relating to Minas-Rio and a net deferred tax credit of $70million relating to the reassessment of deferred tax assets as a result of changes in tax regimes within operating segments, partially offset by the write-off of the deferred tax asset in Amap of$108 million following the decision to sell the system.
The tax credit of $377 million on special items and remeasurements primarily arises on the impairments at Platinum and the reversal of the fide Beers inventoryuplift.
UNDERLYING EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation underlying EBITDA is operating pro t before special items and remeasurements, depreciation and amortisation in subsidiaries and joint ventures and includes attributable share of underlying EBITDA of associates.
US$ million 2012 2011 1 Iron Ore and Manganese 3,198 4,586 Metallurgical Coal 877 1,577 Thermal Coal 972 1,410 Copper 2,179 2,750 Nickel 50 84 Platinum 580 1,672 Diamonds 711 794 1 Other Mining and Industrial 485 540 Exploration 206 121 Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs 160 56 Underlying EBITDA 8,686 13,348 1 In 2012 Amap has been reclassi ed from Iron Ore and Manganese to Other Mining and Industrial to align with internal management reporting.
Underlying EBITDA is reconciled to operating pro t, including attributable share of associates, before special items and remeasurements and to Total pro t from operations and associates as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 Underlying EBITDA 8,686 13,348 Depreciation and amortisation: subsidiaries and joint ventures 2,289 1,967 Depreciation and amortisation: associates 233 286 Operating pro t, including associates, before special items and remeasurements 6,164 11,095 Operating special items and remeasurements 7,093 229 Non-operating special items and remeasurements 1,394 183 Associates net special items and remeasurements 61 1 Share of associates net finance costs, tax and non-controlling interests 266 449 Total pro t from operations and associates 138 10,599 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 155 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7.
EXPLORATION EXPENDITURE US$ million 2012 2011 By commodity Iron ore 23 5 Metallurgical coal 18 5 Thermal coal 14 9 Copper 39 27 Nickel 32 26 Platinum group metals 4 5 Diamonds 23 Phosphates and niobium 2 Central exploration activities 51 44 206 121 8.
EMPLOYEE NUMBERS AND COSTS The average number of employees, excluding contractors and associates employees, and including a proportionate share of employees within joint venture entities, was: Thousand 2012 2011 By segment 1 Iron Ore and Manganese 8 7 Metallurgical Coal 4 3 Thermal Coal 9 9 Copper 5 5 Nickel 2 2 Platinum 57 55 2 Diamonds 3 1 Other Mining and Industrial 16 17 Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs 2 2 106 100 1 In 2012 Amap has been reclassi ed from Iron Ore and Manganese to Other Mining and Industrial to align with internal management reporting.
2 The average number of employees in Diamonds re ects the acquisition of fide Beers from 16 August 2012.
The average number of employees by principal location of employment was: Thousand 2012 2011 South Africa 82 79 Other Africa 2 1 South America 11 10 North America 1 Australia and Asia 4 4 Europe 6 6 106 100 Payroll costs in respect of the employees included in the tables above were: US$ million 2012 2011 Wages and salaries 4,522 4,201 Social security costs 166 142 1 Post employment bene ts 378 343 Share-based payments see note 29 321 260 Total payroll costs 5,387 4,946 Reconciliation: Less: employee costs capitalised 247 229 Less: employee costs included within special items 107 10 Employee costs included in operating costs 5,033 4,707 1 Includes contributions to fide ned contribution pension and medical plans, and current service costs related to fide ned bene t pension and medical schemes, and other bene ts provided to certain employees during retirement, see note 28.
In accordance with IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Amended, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any director executive and non-executive of the Group.
Compensation for key management was as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 Salaries and short term employee bene ts 24 23 Social security costs 3 2 Termination bene ts 2 Post employment bene ts 3 8 Share-based payments 25 22 57 55 Key management comprises members of the Board and the Executive Committee.
Disclosure of directors emoluments, pension entitlements, share options and long term incentive plan awards required by the Companies Act 2006 and those speci ed for audit by Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 are included in the Remuneration report.
156 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 9.
NET FINANCE COSTS INCOME Finance costs and exchange losses gains are presented net of hedges for respective interest bearing and foreign currency borrowings.
The weighted average capitalisation rate applied to qualifying capital expenditure was 4.2% 2011: 5.0%.
US$ million 2012 2011 Investment income Interest income from cash and cash equivalents 155 239 Other interest income 195 194 Expected return on fide ned bene t arrangements 200 199 Dividend income from financial asset investments 54 59 604 691 Less: interest income capitalised 7 23 Total investment income 597 668 Interest expense Interest and other finance expense 691 615 Interest payable on convertible bond 25 68 Unwinding of discount on convertible bond 25 71 Interest cost on fide ned bene t arrangements 230 205 Unwinding of discount relating to provisions and other liabilities 114 80 1,085 1,039 Less: interest expense capitalised 287 344 Total interest expense 798 695 Other nancing losses gains Net foreign exchange losses 90 16 Net fair value losses gains on fair value hedges 24 16 Other net fair value gains 27 7 Total other nancing losses gains 87 7 Net finance costs before remeasurements 288 20 Remeasurements see note 5 89 203 Net finance costs income after remeasurements 377 183 10.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT GAINS AND LOSSES The net gains and losses recorded in the Consolidated income statement in respect of financial instruments were as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 At fair value through pro t and loss 1 Cash ow hedge derivatives transferred from equity 4 5 Fair value hedge derivatives 193 263 Fair value hedge underlying instruments 169 279 Foreign exchange gains losses 12 9 2 Other fair value movements 144 205 Loans and receivables Foreign exchange gains 17 9 3 Interest income at amortised cost 307 368 Available for sale Net gain transferred on sale from equity 67 10 Dividend income 54 59 Impairment of available for sale investments 84 Foreign exchange losses 30 Other financial liabilities Foreign exchange losses gains 106 240 3 Interest expense at amortised cost 404 345 1 These amounts are included in Group revenue.
2 Includes the impact of provisional pricing, see note 3, and certain operating and nancing remeasurements, see note 5.
3 Interest income and expense at amortised cost are shown net of amounts capitalised.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 157 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE a Analysis of charge for the year US$ million 2012 2011 United Kingdom corporation tax credit charge 12 16 South Africa tax 802 1,307 Other overseas tax 605 1,067 Prior year adjustments 61 92 1 Current tax 1,456 2,298 Deferred tax 32 443 Income tax expense before special items and remeasurements 1,488 2,741 Special items and remeasurements tax 1,113 119 Income tax expense 375 2,860 1 Includes royalties which meet the fide nition of income tax and are in addition to royalties recorded in operating costs.
b Factors affecting tax charge for the year The effective tax rate for the year of 156.9 % 2011: 26.5% is lower than 2011: same as the applicable weighted average statutory rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom of 24.5% 2011: 26.5%.
The reconciling items, excluding the impact of associates, are: US$ million 2012 2011 Loss pro t before tax 239 10,782 Less: share of net income from associates 432 977 Loss pro t before tax excluding associates 671 9,805 Tax on loss pro t excluding associates calculated at United Kingdom corporation tax rate of 24.5% 2011: 26.5% 164 2,598 Tax effects of: Items not taxable deductible for tax purposes Exploration expenditure 43 27 Non-taxable deductible net foreign exchange loss 7 24 Non-taxable net interest income 25 20 Other non-deductible expenses 51 60 Other non-taxable income 63 57 Temporary difference adjustments Current year losses not recognised 86 38 Recognition of losses not previously recognised 69 103 Other temporary differences 40 57 Special items and remeasurements 305 77 Other adjustments Secondary tax on companies and dividend withholding taxes 26 407 Effect of differences between local and United Kingdom rates 68 61 Prior year adjustments to current tax 61 92 Other adjustments 89 19 Income tax expense 375 2,860 IAS 1 requires income from associates to be presented net of tax on the face of the income statement.
Associates tax is therefore not included within the Groups income tax expense.
Associates tax included within Share of net income from associates for the year ended 31 December 2012 is $205million 2011:$384million.
Excluding special items and remeasurements this becomes $202 million 2011: $385 million.
The effective rate of tax before special items and remeasurements including attributable share of associates tax for the year ended 31 December 2012 was 29.0%.
The increase compared to the equivalent effective tax rate of 28.3% for the year ended 31 December 2011 is due to the reduced impact of certain non-recurring factors.
The non-recurring factors in 2012 include further recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses and the reassessment of certain withholding tax provisions across the Group.
In future periods it is expected that the effective tax rate, including associates tax, will remain above the United Kingdom statutory tax rate.
c Tax amounts included in total comprehensive income An analysis of tax by individual item presented in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income is presented below: US$ million 2012 2011 Tax on items recognised directly in equity Net gain on revaluation of available for sale investments 79 26 Net gain loss on cash ow hedges 1 20 Net exchange difference on translation of foreign operations 16 11 Actuarial net gain loss on post employment bene t plans 19 19 115 24 Tax on items transferred from equity Transferred to income statement: disposal of available for sale investments 30 Transferred to initial carrying amount of hedged items: cash ow hedges 1 12 Transferred to income statement: cash ow hedges 2 29 14 d Tax amounts recognised directly in equity Capital gains tax of $290 million relating to the pro t on sale of a 25.4% share in Anglo American Sur SA AA Sur in August 2012 has been charged directly toequity 2011: $1,017 million relating to the pro t on sale of a 24.5% share in AA Sur in November 2011.
There were no other material current tax amounts charged directly to equity in 2012 or 2011.
Deferred tax of $110 million has been charged directly to equity 2011: charge of $127 million, see note 27.
158 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 12.
DIVIDENDS Dividends payable during the year are as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 Final ordinary dividend for 2011 46 US cents per ordinary share 2010: 40 US cents per ordinary share 559 495 Interim ordinary dividend for 2012 32 US cents per ordinary share 2011: 28 US cents per ordinary share 411 339 1 1 970 834 1 Of this, $599 million 2011: $561 million was recognised in the parent Company.
Total dividends paid during the year were $970 million 2011: $818 million.
In 2011 the difference to dividends payable arose due to movements in exchange rates between the date of recognition and the date of payment.
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2012 of 53 US cents per share.
Based on shares eligible for dividends at 31 December 2012, this will result in an estimated distribution of $676 million of shareholders funds, of which $395 million will be distributed by the parent Company.
These financial statements do not re ect this dividend payable as it is still subject to shareholder approval.
As stated in note 29, the employee bene t trust has waived the right to receive dividends on the shares it holds.
EARNINGS PER SHARE US$ 2012 2011 Loss pro t for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company Basic loss earnings per share 1.19 5.10 Diluted loss earnings per share 1.19 4.89 1 Headline earnings for the financial year Basic earnings per share 0.95 4.89 Diluted earnings per share 0.95 4.69 1 Underlying earnings for the financial year Basic earnings per share 2.26 5.06 Diluted earnings per share 2.24 4.85 1 Basic and diluted earnings per share are also shown based on headline earnings, a Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE Limited fide ned performance measure, and underlying earnings, which the directors consider to be a useful additional measure of the Groups performance.
Both earnings measures are further explained below.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: Loss pro t attributable to equity shareholders of the Company Headline earnings Underlying earnings 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Earnings US$ million Basic loss earnings 1,493 6,169 1,197 5,913 2,839 6,120 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares 1 Interest payable on convertible bond net of tax 50 50 19 50 1 Unwinding of discount on convertible bond net of tax 52 52 19 52 Diluted earnings 1,493 6,271 1,197 6,015 2,877 6,222 Number of shares million Basic number of ordinary shares outstanding 1,254 1,210 1,254 1,210 1,254 1,210 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares Share options and awards 10 5 10 5 10 Convertible bond 62 62 23 62 Diluted number of ordinary shares outstanding 1,254 1,282 1,259 1,282 1,282 1,282 1 All outstanding convertible bonds were converted or redeemed during the year, see note 24.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
Potential ordinary shares shall be treated as dilutive when, and only when, their conversion to ordinary shares would decrease earnings per share or increase loss per share from continuing operations.
Consequently, in 2012 basic loss per share equals diluted loss per share and 16,325,905 2011: 270,095 shares have been excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as they are anti-dilutive as at 31 December 2012.
Asat 31 December 2012, 10,339,454 2011: 270,095 shares have been excluded from the calculation of diluted headline earnings per share and diluted underlying earnings per share as they are anti-dilutive.
Basic and diluted number of ordinary shares outstanding represent the weighted average for the year.
The average number of ordinary shares in issue excludes shares held by employee bene t trusts and Anglo American plc shares held by Group companies.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 159 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13.
EARNINGS PER SHARE continued Underlying earnings is presented after non-controlling interests and excludes special items and remeasurements, see note 5.
Underlying earnings is distinct from Headline earnings, which is a JSE Limited fide ned performance measure.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share, based on headline and underlying earnings, uses the following earnings data: US$ million 2012 2011 Loss pro t for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 1,493 6,169 Operating special items 6,050 70 Operating special items tax 1,600 Operating special items non-controlling interests 123 Non-operating special items and remeasurements 1,492 347 Non-operating special items tax 35 36 Non-operating special items non-controlling interests 180 Financing special items 9 Tax special items 24 Headline earnings for the financial year 1,197 5,913 1 Operating special items 989 103 Operating remeasurements 112 74 2 Non-operating special items and remeasurements 98 144 Financing remeasurements 88 205 Special items and remeasurements tax 455 106 Non-controlling interests on special items and remeasurements 100 15 Underlying earnings for the financial year 2,839 6,120 1 Includes onerous contract provisions, accelerated depreciation and the reversal of the inventory uplift on fide Beers.
2 Principally includes Kumba Envision Trust charge and transaction costs relating to the fide Beers acquisition 2011: Platinum BEE transactions and related charges.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2012 2011 Brands, Brands, contracts contracts and other and other 1 2 1 2 US$ million intangibles Goodwill Total intangibles Goodwill Total Net book value At 1 January 83 2,239 2,322 85 2,231 2,316 Acquired through business combinations 1,588 2,355 3,943 Additions 34 34 26 26 3 Amortisation charge for the year 37 37 20 20 Impairments and losses on assets transferred to held for sale 30 1,169 1,199 15 15 Disposals and transfer to assets held for sale 7 441 448 25 25 Adjustments relating to deferred and contingent consideration 8181 Currency movements 14 30 44 8 33 41 At 31 December 1,617 2,954 4,571 83 2,239 2,322 Cost 1,724 2,954 4,678 182 2,239 2,421 Accumulated amortisation 107 107 99 99 1 Includes $517 million 2011: nil of assets with inde nite lives acquired through the acquisition of fide Beers.
Brands, contracts and other intangible assets are provided net of cumulative impairment charges of $29 million 2011: $37 million.
2 The goodwill balances provided are net of cumulative impairment charges of $1,120 million 2011: $337 million.
3 Includes $6 million 2011: nil of amortisation arising due to the fair value uplift of the Groups pre-existing 45% shareholding in fide Beers.
This has been included within operating remeasurements.
Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill is allocated for impairment testing purposes to cash generating units CGUs or groups of CGUs which re ect how it is monitored for internal management purposes.
This allocation largely represents the Groups segments.
Any goodwill associated with CGUs subsumed within these segments is not signi cant when compared to the goodwill of the Group 2011: material components of goodwill within Iron Ore and Manganese and Other Mining and Industrial.
The allocation of goodwill to CGUs or groups of CGUs is as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 Iron Ore and Manganese Iron Ore Brazil 1,123 Thermal Coal 88 88 Copper 124 124 Nickel 10 10 Platinum 230 230 Diamonds 2,324 Other Mining and Industrial 1 Tarmac 456 Other 178 208 2,954 2,239 1 The goodwill balance in Tarmac as at 31 December 2012 relates to Tarmac Quarry Materials and has been transferred to assets held for sale, see note 34.
For the purposes of goodwill impairment testing, the recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on a fair value less costs to sell basis, with the exception of Minas-Rio which is determined on a value in use basis.
160 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 14.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued Value in use is based on the present value of future cash ows expected to be derived from the CGU or reportable segment in its current state.
Fair value less costs to sell is normally supported by observable market data in the case of listed subsidiaries, market share price at 31 December of the respective entity ordiscounted cash ow models taking account of assumptions that would be made by market participants.
Expected future cash ows are inherently uncertain and could materially change over time.
They are signi cantly affected by a number of factors including ore reserves and resources, together with economic factors such as commodity prices, discount rates, exchange rates, estimates of costs to produce reserves and future capital expenditure.
Management believes that any reasonably possible change in a key assumption on which the recoverable amounts are based would not cause the carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts.
Cash ow projections are based on financial budgets and mine life plans or non-mine production plans, incorporating key assumptions as detailed below: Reserves and resources Ore reserves and, where considered appropriate, mineral resources are incorporated in projected cash ows, based on ore reserves and mineral resource statements and exploration and evaluation work undertaken by appropriately quali ed persons.
Mineral resources are included where management has a high degree of con dence in their economic extraction, despite additional evaluation still being required prior to meeting the requirements of reserve classi cation.
For further information refer to the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources section of the Annual Report.
Commodity prices Commodity prices are based on latest internal forecasts for commodity prices, benchmarked with external sources of information, to ensure they are within the range of available analyst forecasts.
Where existing sales contracts are in place, the effects of such contracts are taken into account in determining future cash ows.
Operating costs and capital expenditure Operating costs and capital expenditure are based on financial budgets covering a three year period.
Cash ow projections beyond three years are based on mine life plans or non-mine production plans as applicable, and internal management forecasts.
Cost assumptions incorporate management experience and expectations, as well as the nature and location of the operation and the risks associated therewith.
Underlying input cost assumptions are consistent with related output price assumptions.
Non-commodity based businesses For non-commodity based businesses, margin and revenue are based on financial budgets covering a three year period.
Beyond the financial budget, revenue is forecast using a steady growth rate consistent with the markets in which those businesses operate, and for those periods five years or more from the balance sheet date, at a rate not exceeding the long term growth rate for the country of operation.
Discount rates Cash ow projections used in fair value less costs to sell impairment models are discounted based on a real post-tax discount rate of 6.5% 2011: 6.0%.
The discount rate for Minas-Rio is a real pre-tax rate of 8.5% 2011: 8.0%.
Adjustments to the rate are made for any risks that are not re ected inthe underlying cash ows.
Foreign exchange rates Foreign exchange rates are based on latest internal forecasts for foreign exchange, benchmarked with external sources of information for relevant countries ofoperation.
Foreign exchange rates are kept constant from 2017 onwards.
Minas-Rio The Minas-Rio iron ore project Minas-Rio in Brazil was acquired in two separate transactions in 2007 and 2008.
Minas-Rio is expected to produce 26.5 Mtpa of high quality pellet feed in its first phase of development, with the potential to increase to 29.8 Mtpa following asset optimisation.
Pre-feasibility studies for the subsequent expansion phases of Minas-Rio commenced during 2011, supported by an estimated resource base at that time of 5.77 billion tonnes, asdetailed in the 2011 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources statement.
We have subsequently converted 1.45 billion tonnes to Ore Reserves.
While progress is being made, construction activities at the bene ciation plant and land access along the 525 km pipeline route have been impeded by a series of challenges, including three legal injunctions.
All three injunctions were resolved during the second half of 2012 and construction activity in the affected areas has resumed.
Additional capital expenditure has been incurred as a result of, inter alia, the delays arising from the injunctions, scope changes and higher than expected in ation of operational costs.
Management has completed a detailed review to assess the impact of these additional costs and the forecast capital expenditure for the first phase of Minas-Rio has increased from $5.8 billion to $8.8 billion, including a $0.6 billion contingency, on an attributable basis.
The delivery of the project on the revised schedule is dependent upon a number of development milestones: suppression of caves at the mine site: completion of the tailings dam before the rainy season: land release for the transmission line to the bene ciation plant and pipeline: and ful lment of installation licences conditions such that operating licences can be issued in due course.
Subject to no further unexpected interventions and the successful completion of these key milestones in the next 12 months, first ore on ship is anticipated at the end of 2014.
The valuation of Minas-Rio at 31 December 2012 has been assessed by reference to its value in use, determined on a discounted cash ow basis real pre-tax discount rate of 8.5%.
The valuation considers the risk of further escalation in capital expenditure and of further delay to first ore on ship.
It also considers the impact of further unanticipated impediments to progress.
These risks re ect the history of unforeseen challenges that have affected the project to date.
The valuation model employs long term iron ore prices based on detailed analysis of market fundamentals and adjusted for iron ore quality.
The long term iron ore price which is used in the valuation from 2022 onwards is within the range of published analyst forecasts and is slightly above the median of $80 per tonne.
Based on this valuation, the Group has recorded an impairment charge of $4,960 million before tax against the carrying value of the asset.
The post-tax impairment charge is $4,000 million.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 161 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.
2 Includes $10,193 million 2011: $8,088 million of assets in the course of construction, which are not depreciated.
3 Includes $2,258 million 2011: $1,947 million of depreciation within operating pro t, $70 million 2011: $84 million of accelerated depreciation, a $35 million 2011: nil depreciation charge arising due to the fair value uplift on the pre-existing 45% shareholding of fide Beers see note 5 and $81 million 2011:$39million of pre-commercial production depreciation which has been capitalised.
See note 2 for a split of depreciation, and amortisation for intangibles, by segment.
4 Relates mainly to amounts transferred from assets in the course of construction.
In 2011 the net amount of $163 million relates to federal tax credits on qualifying capital projects inBrazil.
These credits have been reclassi ed, as appropriate, to re ect the expected realisation.
Included in the additions above is $280 million 2011: $321 million of net interest expense incurred on borrowings funding the construction of qualifying assets which has been capitalised during the year.
Assets held under finance leases relate to plant and equipment with a net book value of $27 million 2011: $25 million.
Depreciation charges in the year amounted to $7 million 2011: $9 million.
The net book value of land and buildings comprises: US$ million 2012 2011 Freehold 2,952 2,604 Leasehold long 41 8 Leasehold short less than 50 years 3 8 2,996 2,620 16.
ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION TRUSTS The Group makes contributions to controlled funds that were established to meet the cost of some of its restoration and environmental rehabilitation liabilities, primarily in South Africa.
The funds comprise the following investments: US$ million 2012 2011 Equity 150 146 Bonds 151 130 Cash 92 84 393 360 These assets are primarily rand denominated.
Cash is held in short term xed deposits or earns interest at oating inter-bank rates.
Bonds earn interest at aweighted average xed rate of 8% 2011: 6% for an average period of five years 2011: four years.
Equity investments are recorded at fair value through pro t and loss while other assets are treated as loans and receivables.
These funds are not available for the general purposes of the Group.
All income from these assets is reinvested to meet speci c environmental obligations.
These obligations are included in provisions, see note 26.
162 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 17.
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES US$ million 2012 2011 At 1 January 5,240 4,900 Net income from associates 432 977 Dividends received 286 344 Share of expense recognised directly in equity, net of tax 6 32 Other equity movements 4 Investment in equity and capitalised loans 114 47 Interest on capitalised loans 9 23 Acquired through business combinations 12 Repayment of capitalised loans 36 4 Transfer to available for sale investments 66 1 Disposals 2,372 Other movements 1 1 Currency movements 41 260 2 At 31 December 3,063 5,240 1 Represents the carrying value of the Groups pre-existing 45% shareholding in fide Beers prior to the acquisition of a controlling interest on 16 August 2012, see note 32.
2 The fair value of the Groups investment in Atlatsa Resources Corporation previously known as Anooraq Resources Corporation at 31 December 2012 was $18 million 2011: $51 million.
The Groups total investments in associates comprise: US$ million 2012 2011 Equity 2,359 4,593 1 Loans 704 647 3,063 5,240 1 The Groups total investments in associates include long term debt which in substance forms part of the Groups investment.
These loans are not repayable in the foreseeable future.
The Groups attributable share of the summarised income statement information of associates is shown in note 2.
Summarised balance sheet information of associates is as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 Non-current assets 2,521 6,111 Current assets 1,494 2,188 Current liabilities 379 742 Non-current liabilities 573 2,317 Groups share of associates net assets 3,063 5,240 Segmental information is provided as follows: Share of net income Aggregate investment US$ million 2012 2011 2012 2011 By segment Iron Ore and Manganese 31 142 902 936 Metallurgical Coal 79 141 277 294 Thermal Coal 248 317 1,085 932 Platinum 94 65 786 848 Diamonds 168 442 13 2,230 432 977 3,063 5,240 Aggregate investment US$ million 2012 2011 By geography South Africa 1,165 1,950 Other Africa 996 South America 1,075 917 North America 343 Australia and Asia 807 794 Europe 16 240 3,063 5,240 The Groups share of associates contingent liabilities incurred jointly by investors is $33 million 2011: $112 million.
Details of principal associates are set out in note 38.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 163 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
JOINT VENTURES The Groups share of the summarised financial information of joint venture entities that are proportionately consolidated in the financial statements is as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 Non-current assets 10,407 2,546 Current assets 1,000 572 Current liabilities 651 434 Non-current liabilities 1,299 703 Groups share of joint venture entities net assets 9,457 1,981 Revenue 2,394 1,932 Operating costs 1,915 944 Net finance costs 39 44 Income tax expense 110 230 Groups share of joint venture entities pro t for the financial year 330 714 The Groups share of joint venture entities contingent liabilities incurred jointly with other venturers is $25 million 2011: $32 million and its share of capital commitments is $569 million 2011: $74 million.
Within the Metallurgical Coal segment, the Group also holds interests in a number of proportionately consolidated jointly controlled operations.
The Groups share of net assets of such operations is $1,802million 2011: $1,538 million and its share of pro t for the financial year is $224million 2011: $615 million.
The Groups share of these operations contingent liabilities incurred jointly with other venturers is $32million 2011: $19million and its share of capital commitments is $85million 2011: $80 million.
Details of principal joint ventures are set out in note 38.
FINANCIAL ASSET INVESTMENTS 2012 2011 Available Available Loans and for sale Loans and for sale US$ million receivables investments Total receivables investments Total At 1 January 1,690 1,206 2,896 1,920 1,300 3,220 Additions 88 16 48488 Acquired through business combinations 41 19 60 Interest receivable 14 14 76 76 Net repayments 79 79 22 22 Transfer to assets held for sale 16 16 Disposals 314 273 587 14 14 Movements in fair value 26 173 199 10 115 105 Currency movements 54 69 123 278 279 557 At 31 December 1,316 1,064 2,380 1,690 1,206 2,896 No provision for impairment is recorded against financial assets classi ed as Loans and receivables 2011: nil.
Maturity analysis of financial asset investments: US$ million 2012 2011 Current 102 Non-current 2,278 2,896 2,380 2,896 20.
INVENTORIES US$ million 2012 2011 Raw materials and consumables 936 837 Work in progress 1,500 1,488 Finished products 2,569 1,192 5,005 3,517 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to $15,776 million 2011: $16,146 million.
An additional $421 million was recognised as an expense within operating special items 2011: nil relating to the reversal of fair value uplifts on fide Beers inventory, see note 5.
Inventories held at net realisable value amounted to $352 million 2011: $285 million.
Write-down of inventories net of revaluation of provisionally priced purchases amounted to $145 million, including write-offs of $61 million relating to inventory at Loma fide Nquel recorded in operating special items 2011: $16 million.
There were nil inventory write-downs reversed and recognised as a reduction in the inventory expense for the year 2011: nil.
164 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 21.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2012 2011 Due within Due after Due within Due after US$ million one year one year Total one year one year Total Trade receivables 2,520 204 2,724 2,704 168 2,872 Other receivables 570 318 888 744 236 980 Prepayments and accrued income 185 50 235 226 33 259 3,275 572 3,847 3,674 437 4,111 The historical level of customer default is minimal and as a result the credit quality of year end trade receivables which are not past due is considered to be high.
Of the year end trade receivables balance the following were past due at 31 December stated after associated impairment provision : US$ million 2012 2011 Less than one month 29 137 Greater than one month, less than two months 7 16 Greater than two months, less than three months 2 7 Greater than three months 4 19 42 179 The overdue debtor ageing pro le above is typical of the industry in which certain of the Groups businesses operate.
Given this, the existing insurance cover including letters of credit from financial institutions and the nature of the related counterparties, these amounts are considered recoverable.
Total trade receivables are stated net of the following impairment provision: US$ million 2012 2011 At 1 January 54 53 Charge for the year 6 Unused amounts reversed 6 Disposals and transfer to assets held for sale 25 3 Currency movements 2 At 31 December 23 54 22.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES US$ million 2012 2011 Trade payables 2,701 3,001 Tax and social security 105 177 Other payables 707 939 1 Accruals and deferred income 1,041 981 4,554 5,098 1 Includes $18 million 2011: nil of deferred income recorded within non-current liabilities.
FINANCIAL ASSETS The carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets are as follows: 2012 2011 Estimated Carrying Estimated Carrying US$ million fair value value fair value value At fair value through pro t and loss 1 Trade and other receivables 581 581 596 596 2 Derivative financial assets 848 848 840 840 Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents 9,094 9,094 11,732 11,732 1 Trade and other receivables 3,031 3,031 3,256 3,256 Financial asset investments 1,286 1,316 1,647 1,690 Available for sale investments Financial asset investments 1,064 1,064 1,206 1,206 Total financial assets 15,904 15,934 19,277 19,320 1 Trade and other receivables exclude prepayments and accrued income.
2 Derivative instruments are analysed between those which are Held for trading and those designated into hedge relationships in note 25.
For financial assets which are traded on an active market, such as listed investments, fair value is determined by reference to market value.
For non-traded financial assets, fair value is calculated using discounted cash ows, considered to be reasonable and consistent with those that would be used by a market participant, unless carrying value is considered to approximate fair value.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 165 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23.
FINANCIAL ASSETS continued Fair value hierarchy An analysis of financial assets carried at fair value is set out below: 2012 2011 1 2 3 1 2 3 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At fair value through pro t and loss Trade and other receivables 581 581 596 596 Derivative financial assets 1 813 34 848 677 163 840 Available for sale investments Financial asset investments 980 11 73 1,064 1,142 10 54 1,206 981 1,405 107 2,493 1,142 1,283 217 2,642 1 Valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
This category includes listed equity shares.
2 Valued using techniques based signi cantly on observable market data.
Instruments in this category are valued using valuation techniques where all of the inputs that have a signi cant effect onthe valuation are directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
3 Instruments in this category have been valued using a valuation technique where at least one input which could have a signi cant effect on the instruments valuation is not based on observable market data.
Where inputs can be observed from market data without undue cost and effort, the observed input is used.
Otherwise, management determines a reasonable estimate for the input.
Financial assets included within level 3 primarily consist of embedded derivatives, financial asset investments and certain cross currency swaps of Brazilian real denominated borrowings, whose valuation depends upon unobservable inputs.
The movements in the fair value of the level 3 financial assets are shown in the following table: US$ million 2012 2011 At 1 January 217 96 Net loss gain recorded in remeasurements 141 37 Net gain recorded in the statement of comprehensive income 19 9 Cash ow 29 Additions 9 Disposals and transfer to assets held for sale 12 Reclassi cation from to level 3 financial liabilities 14 123 Currency movements 2 16 At 31 December 107 217 For the level 3 financial assets, changing certain inputs to reasonably possible alternative assumptions may change the fair value signi cantly.
Where signi cant, the effect of a change in these assumptions to a reasonably possible alternative assumption is outlined in the table below.
These sensitivities have been calculated by amending the fair value of the level 3 financial assets at 31 December for a change in each individual assumption, as outlined below, while keeping all other assumptions consistent with those used to calculate the fair value recognised in the financial statements.
2012 2011 Increase decrease Increase decrease US$ million Change in assumption in fair value of assets in fair value of assets Derivative financial assets Increase of 5% in dividend forecast 5 10 Decrease of 5% in dividend forecast 5 10 1 Shift of TJLP curve n a n a Financial asset investments Decrease of 10% in liquidity discount percentage 9 11 Increase of 10% in liquidity discount percentage 9 11 1 TJLP is a Brazilian domestic interest rate.
The sensitivities are provided on the net liability position of such level 3 financial instruments and are disclosed in note 24.
Financial asset risk exposures are set out in note 25.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES The carrying amounts and fair values of financial liabilities are as follows: 2012 2011 Estimated Carrying Estimated Carrying US$ million fair value value fair value value At fair value through pro t and loss 1 Trade and other payables 296 296 262 262 2 Derivative financial liabilities 1,081 1,081 1,112 1,112 Designated into fair value hedge Borrowings 13,735 13,425 8,867 8,074 Financial liabilities at amortised cost 1 Trade and other payables 4,102 4,102 4,637 4,637 3 Borrowings 4,181 4,329 5,526 4,799 Other non-current liabilities 29 29 55 55 Total financial liabilities 23,424 23,262 20,459 18,939 1 Trade and other payables exclude tax and social security and deferred income.
3 The fair value of the convertible bond at 31 December 2011 represented the quoted price of the debt and therefore included the portion accounted for in equity.
166 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 24.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES continued For financial liabilities which are traded on an active market, such as listed debt instruments, fair value is determined by reference to market value.
For non-traded financial liabilities, fair value is calculated using discounted cash ows, considered to be reasonable and consistent with those that would be used by a market participant, unless carrying value is considered to approximate fair value.
Fair value hierarchy An analysis of financial liabilities carried at fair value is set out below: 2012 2011 1 2 3 1 2 3 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At fair value through pro t and loss Trade and other payables 296 296 262 262 Derivative financial liabilities 865 216 1,081 924 188 1,112 1,161 216 1,377 1,186 188 1,374 1 Valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
Financial instruments included within level 3 primarily consist of embedded derivatives and certain cross currency swaps of Brazilian real denominated borrowings, whose valuation depends upon unobservable inputs and commodity sales contracts which do not meet the conditions for the own use exemption under IAS 39.
The movements in the fair value of the level 3 financial liabilities are shown in the following table: US$ million 2012 2011 At 1 January 188 60 Net gain loss recorded in remeasurements 14 5 Cash ow 15 Reclassi cation to from level 3 financial assets 14 123 Currency movements 5 At 31 December 216 188 For the level 3 financial liabilities, changing certain inputs to reasonably possible alternative assumptions may change the fair value signi cantly.
These sensitivities have been calculated by amending the fair value of the level 3 financial liabilities at 31 December for a change in each individual assumption, as outlined below, while keeping all other assumptions consistent with those used to calculate the fair value recognised in the financial statements.
2012 2011 Increase in fair Increase in fair US$ million Change in assumption value of liabilities value of liabilities 1 Derivative financial liabilities Shift of TJLP curve 17 21 1 TJLP is a Brazilian domestic interest rate.
The sensitivities are provided on the net liability position of such level 3 financial instruments.
Financial liability risk exposures are set out in note 25.
Analysis of borrowings An analysis of borrowings, as presented on the Consolidated balance sheet, is set out below: 2012 2011 Due within Due after Due within Due after US$ million one year one year Total one year one year Total Secured 1 Bank loans and overdrafts 52126 55 276 331 2 Obligations under finance leases 31922 41721 84048 59 293 352 Unsecured Bank loans and overdrafts 251 2,871 3,122 673 1,722 2,395 Bonds issued under EMTN programme 994 6,382 7,376 163 4,167 4,330 US bonds 767 4,628 5,395 3,408 3,408 3 Convertible bond 1,504 1,504 Other loans 584 1,229 1,813 123 761 884 2,596 15,110 17,706 959 11,562 12,521 Total 2,604 15,150 17,754 1,018 11,855 12,873 1 Assets with a book value of $49 million 2011: $408 million have been pledged as security, of which $35 million 2011: $170 million are property, plant and equipment, $10 million 2011: $113million are financial assets and $4 million 2011: $125 million are inventories.
Related to these assets are borrowings of $26 million 2011: $331 million.
2 Details of assets held under finance leases are provided in note 15.
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 Within one year 5 4 Greater than one year, less than five years 14 12 Greater than five years 12 13 31 29 Future finance charges on finance leases 9 8 Present value of finance lease liabilities 22 21 3 All outstanding convertible bonds were converted or redeemed during the year, see below.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 167 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES continued Net additional medium and long term borrowings were $5,633 million 2011: $964 million and net repayments of short term borrowings were $747 million 2011: $1,261 million as disclosed in the Consolidated cash ow statement.
Corporate bonds During 2012 the Group issued corporate bonds with a US$ equivalent value of $5.1 billion in the US, European and South African markets.
These included $600 million 2.625% senior notes due 2017, $750 million 2.625% senior notes due 2017, $600 million 4.125% senior notes due 2022, 750 million 3.50% guaranteed notes due 2022, 750 million 2.75% guaranteed notes due 2019 and 750million 2.50% guaranteed notes due 2018 issued under the Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme, and R600 million oating rate notes at 3M JIBAR 1.38% due 2017 and R1.4 billion 9.27% xed rate notes due 2019 issued under the South African Domestic Medium Term Note programme.
Convertible bond On 23 March 2012 Anglo American plc gave notice that it had exercised its right to redeem its $1.7 billion of convertible bonds the Bonds on 22 May 2012 the optional redemption date.
The Bonds were due to mature on 7 May 2014.
On 13 April 2012 following the announcement of the recommended 2011 full year dividend, and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Bonds, the conversion price was adjusted from 18.36 to 18.02.
Of the $1,700 million Bonds issued, $1,678 million were converted to equity prior to the optional redemption date, including $1 million converted in 2011, and the remaining $22 million were redeemed by the Group.
As a result, 62.5 million ordinary shares were issued and the financial liability of $1,529 million, representing the notional value of the outstanding Bonds of $1,699 million less unamortised discount of $170 million, was derecognised.
The balance in the convertible debt reserve of $355 million, which related to the Bonds, was transferred to share premium $170 million and retained earnings $185 million.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVES The Group is exposed in varying degrees to a variety of financial instrument related risks.
The Board approves and monitors the risk management processes, including documented treasury policies, counterparty limits, controlling and reporting structures.
The risk management processes of the Groups independently listed subsidiaries are in line with the Groups own policy.
The types of risk exposure, the way in which such exposure is managed and quanti cation of the level of exposure in the Consolidated balance sheet at year end is provided as follows subcategorised into credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets, including amounts in assets held for sale, are cash, trade and other receivables, investments and derivative financial instruments.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk primarily arises from these financial assets and is as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 Cash and cash equivalents 9,312 11,732 1 Trade and other receivables 4,003 3,852 2 Financial asset investments 1,331 1,690 Derivative financial assets 848 840 3 Financial guarantees 33 51 15,527 18,165 1 Trade and other receivables exclude prepayments and accrued income.
2 Financial asset investments exclude available for sale investments.
3 Financial guarantees issued by the Group in respect of third party liabilities represent an exposure to credit risk in excess of the Groups financial assets.
The Group limits credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments through diversi cation of exposures with a range of approved financial institutions.
Counterparty limits are set for each financial institution with reference to credit ratings assigned by S&P, Moodys and Fitch Ratings.
Given the diverse nature of the Groups operations both in relation to commodity markets and geographically, together with insurance cover including letters of credit from financial institutions, it does not have signi cant concentration of credit risk in respect of trade receivables, with exposure spread over alarge number of customers.
An allowance for impairment of trade receivables is made where there is an identi ed loss event, which based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash ows.
Details of the credit quality of trade receivables and the associated provision for impairment are disclosed innote 21.
Liquidity risk The Group ensures that there are suf cient committed loan facilities including re nancing, where necessary in order to meet short term business requirements, after taking into account cash ows from operations and its holding of cash and cash equivalents, as well as any Group distribution restrictions that exist.
In addition, certain projects are nanced by means of limited recourse project finance, if appropriate.
168 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 25.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVES continued The expected undiscounted cash ows of the Groups financial liabilities including associated derivatives, by remaining contractual maturity, based on conditions existing at the balance sheet date are as follows: 2012 2011 Within one year One to two years Within one year One to two years Fixed Floating Capital Fixed Floating Capital Fixed Floating Capital Fixed Floating Capital US$ million interest interest repayment interest interest repayment interest interest repayment interest interest repayment Financial liabilities 1 1 excluding derivatives 647 202 6,981 493 163 2,336 549 181 5,962 549 127 2,433 2 Net settled derivatives 619 389 127 485 253 27 470 246 2 470 250 140 28 591 7,108 8 416 2,363 79 427 5,960 79 377 2,573 2012 2011 Two to five years Greater than five years Two to five years Greater than five years Fixed Floating Capital Fixed Floating Capital Fixed Floating Capital Fixed Floating Capital US$ million interest interest repayment interest interest repayment interest interest repayment interest interest repayment Financial liabilities excluding derivatives 1,064 218 5,746 619 67 7,695 798 254 6,551 354 104 3,952 2 Net settled derivatives 1,058 551 464 616 308 126 761 305 468 350 127 219 6 769 6,210 3 375 7,821 37 559 7,019 4 231 4,171 1 Assumes maximum cash out ow in respect of third party guarantees issued by the Group and repayment of all short term borrowings with no re nancing.
2 The expected maturities are not materially different from the contracted maturities.
The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 December: US$ million 2012 2011 Expiry date 1 Within one year 2,923 1,781 Greater than one year, less than two years 569 1,268 Greater than two years, less than five years 5,765 5,294 Greater than five years 76 9,257 8,419 1 Includes undrawn rand facilities equivalent to $1.5 billion 2011: $1.6 billion in respect of a series of facilities with 364 day maturities which roll automatically on a daily basis, unless notice isserved.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that financial instrument fair values will uctuate due to changes in market prices.
The signi cant market risks to which the Group is exposed are foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and commodity price risk.
Foreign exchange risk As a global business, the Group is exposed to many currencies principally as a result of non-US dollar operating costs and to a lesser extent, from non-US dollar revenues.
The Groups policy is generally not to hedge such exposures as hedging is not deemed appropriate given the diversi ed nature of the Group, though exceptions can be approved by the Group Management Committee.
In addition, currency exposures exist in respect of non-US dollar approved capital expenditure projects and non-US dollar borrowings in US dollar functional currency entities.
The Groups policy is that such exposures should be hedged subject to a review of the speci c circumstances of the exposure.
The exposure of the Groups financial assets and liabilities excluding intra-group loan balances to currency risk is as follows: 2012 2011 Financial Total financial Financial Total financial assets Impact of assets assets Impact of assets excluding currency Derivative exposure to excluding currency Derivative exposure to 1 1 US$ million derivatives derivatives assets currency risk derivatives derivatives assets currency risk US dollar 9,241 64 808 9,985 10,639 186 742 11,195 Rand 3,894 64 37 3,995 5,761 186 98 6,045 Brazilian real 728 728 839 839 Sterling 123 1 124 467 467 Australian dollar 494 494 383 383 Euro 45 1 46 99 Other currencies 561 1 562 382 382 Total financial assets 15,086 848 15,934 18,480 840 19,320 2012 2011 Financial Total financial Financial Total financial liabilities Impact of liabilities liabilities Impact of liabilities excluding currency Derivative exposure to excluding currency Derivative exposure to 1 1 US$ million derivatives derivatives liabilities currency risk derivatives derivatives liabilities currency risk US dollar 8,269 8,492 1,046 17,807 6,970 5,282 1,096 13,348 Rand 3,287 5 35 3,327 3,595 37 16 3,648 Brazilian real 1,597 1,119 478 1,608 1,138 470 Sterling 913 785 128 1,181 740 441 Australian dollar 422 422 564 564 Euro 6,601 6,593 8 3,436 3,428 8 Other currencies 1,092 1,092 473 13 460 Total financial liabilities 22,181 1,081 23,262 17,827 1,112 18,939 1 Where currency derivatives are held to manage financial instrument exposures, the notional principal amount is reallocated to re ect the remaining exposure to the Group.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 169 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVES continued Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises due to uctuations in interest rates which impact on the value of short term investments and nancing activities.
The Groups exposure to interest rate risk is particularly with reference to changes in US and South African interest rates.
The Groups policy is to borrow funds at oating rates of interest as, over the longer term, this is considered by management to give somewhat of a natural hedge against commodity price movements, given the correlation with economic growth and industrial activity, which in turn shows a high correlation with commodity price uctuation.
In certain circumstances, the Group uses interest rate swap contracts to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on a portion of its existing debt.
Strategic hedging using xed rate debt may also be undertaken from time to time if approved by the Group Management Committee.
In respect of financial assets, the Groups policy is to invest cash at oating rates of interest and to maintain cash reserves in short term investments less than one year in order to maintain liquidity, while achieving a satisfactory return for shareholders.
The exposure of the Groups financial assets excluding intra-group loan balances to interest rate risk is as follows: 2012 2011 Interest bearing Non-interest Interest bearing Non-interest financial assets bearing financial assets financial assets bearing financial assets Floating Fixed Equity Floating Fixed Equity 1 1 US$ million rate rate investments Other Total rate rate investments Other Total 2 Financial assets excluding derivatives 9,651 508 1,062 3,865 15,086 12,623 689 1,206 3,962 18,480 Derivative assets 748 100 848 638 202 840 Financial asset exposure to interest rate risk 10,399 508 1,062 3,965 15,934 13,261 689 1,206 4,164 19,320 1 Includes $397 million 2011: $534 million of preference shares in BEE entities.
2 At 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 no interest rate swaps were held in respect of financial asset exposures.
Floating rate financial assets consist mainly of cash and bank term deposits.
Interest on oating rate financial assets is based on the relevant national inter-bank rates.
Fixed rate financial assets consist principally of financial asset investments and cash, and have a weighted average interest rate of 11.6% 2011: 12.7% for an average period of one year 2011: three years.
Equity investments have no maturity period and the majority are fully liquid.
The exposure of the Groups financial liabilities excluding intra-group loan balances to interest rate risk is as follows: 2012 2011 Interest bearing Interest bearing Non-interest Non-interest financial liabilities financial liabilities bearing bearing Floating Fixed financial Floating Fixed financial US$ million rate rate liabilities Total rate rate liabilities Total Financial liabilities excluding derivatives 4,296 13,444 4,441 22,181 3,254 9,610 4,963 17,827 1 Impact of interest rate swaps 13,135 13,135 8,074 8,074 Derivative liabilities 165 916 1,081 158 954 1,112 Financial liability exposure to interest rate risk 17,596 309 5,357 23,262 11,486 1,536 5,917 18,939 1 Where interest rate swaps are held to manage financial liability exposures the notional principal amount is reallocated to re ect the remaining exposure to the Group.
Interest on oating rate financial liabilities is based on the relevant national inter-bank rates.
Remaining xed rate borrowings accrue interest at a weighted average interest rate of 6.2% 2011: 9.3% for an average period of three years 2011: two years.
Average maturity on non-interest bearing instruments is 17months 2011: 12months.
Commodity price risk The Groups earnings are principally exposed to movements in the prices of the commodities it produces.
The Group policy is generally not to hedge commodity price risk, although some hedging may be undertaken for strategic reasons.
In such cases, the Group generally uses forward and deferred contracts to hedge the price risk.
Certain of the Groups sales and purchases are provisionally priced and as a result are susceptible to future price movements.
The exposure of the Groups financial assets and liabilities to commodity price risk is as follows: 2012 2011 Commodity price linked Commodity price linked Not Not Subject to linked to Subject to linked to price Fixed commodity price Fixed commodity 1 1 US$ million movements price price Total movements price price Total Total net financial instruments excluding derivatives 304 1,087 8,486 7,095 352 945 644 653 Commodity derivatives net 1 1 17 17 Non-commodity derivatives net 232 232 255 255 Total financial instrument exposure to commodity risk 303 1,087 8,718 7,328 335 945 899 381 1 Includes receivables and payables for commodity sales and purchases not subject to price adjustment at the balance sheet date.
170 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 25.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVES continued Derivatives In accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 39, the fair values of derivatives are separately recorded on the balance sheet within Derivative financial assets and Derivative financial liabilities.
Derivatives are classi ed as current or non-current depending on the maturity of the derivative.
The Group utilises derivative instruments to manage certain market risk exposures as explained above.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes, however it may choose not to designate certain derivatives as hedges for accounting purposes.
Such derivatives are classi ed as non-hedges and fair value movements are recorded in the income statement.
The use of derivative instruments is subject to limits and the positions are regularly monitored and reported to senior management.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of their host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value.
Embedded derivatives may be designated into hedge relationships and are accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting policy set out in note 1.
Cash ow hedges In certain cases the Group classi es its forward foreign currency and commodity price contracts, which hedge highly probable forecast transactions, as cash ow hedges.
Where this designation is documented, changes in fair value are recognised in equity until the hedged transactions occur, at which time the respective gains or losses are transferred to the income statement or hedged balance sheet item in accordance with the Groups accounting policy set out innote 1.
Fair value hedges The majority of interest rate swaps taken out to swap the Groups xed rate borrowings to oating rate, in accordance with the Groups policy have been designated as fair value hedges.
The carrying value of the hedged debt is adjusted at each balance sheet date to re ect the impact on its fair value of changes in market interest rates.
Changes in the fair value of the hedged debt are offset against fair value changes in the interest rate swap and classi ed within net finance costs inthe income statement.
Non-hedges The Group may choose not to designate certain derivatives as hedges.
This may occur where the Group is economically hedged but IAS 39 hedge accounting cannot be achieved or where gains and losses on both the derivative and hedged item naturally offset in the income statement, which for example may be the case for certain cross currency swaps of non-US dollar debt.
Where derivatives have not been designated as hedges, fair value changes are recognised in the income statement in accordance with the Groups accounting policy set out in note 1 and are classi ed as nancing or operating depending on the nature of the associated hedged risk.
The fair value of the Groups open derivative position at 31 December excluding normal purchase and sale contracts held off balance sheet, recorded within Derivative financial assets and Derivative financial liabilities is as follows: Current Non-current 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$ million Asset Liability Asset Liability Asset Liability Asset Liability Cash ow hedge Forward foreign currency contracts 3 6 1 Fair value hedge Interest rate swaps 31 687 6 538 Forward commodity contracts 1 2 5 Non-hedge Held for trading Forward foreign currency contracts 35 124 117 121 1 11 33 Cross currency swaps 31 124 49 60 781 55 908 Other 30 35 13 64 9 101 280 172 162 747 801 668 950 These marked to market valuations are in no way predictive of the future value of the hedged position, nor of the future impact on the profit of the Group.
Thevaluations represent the cost of closing all hedge contracts at year end, at market prices and rates available at the time.
Normal purchase and normal sale contracts Commodity based contracts that meet the scope exemption in IAS 39 in that they are settled through physical delivery of the Groups production or are used within the production process, are classi ed as normal purchase or sale contracts.
In accordance with IAS 39 these contracts are not marked to market.
Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and bene ts for other stakeholders and, with cognisance of forecast future market conditions and structuring, to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to manage the short and long term capital structure, the Group adjusts the amount of ordinary dividends paid to shareholders, returns capital to shareholders via, for example, share buybacks and special dividends, arranges debt to fund new acquisitions and may also sell non-core assets to reduce debt.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 171 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVES continued The Group monitors capital on the basis of the ratio of net debt to total capital gearing.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents including derivatives which provide an economic hedge of debt and the net debt of disposal groups.
Total capital is calculated as Net assets asshown in the Consolidated balance sheet excluding net debt.
Total capital and gearing are as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 2010 Net assets 43,787 43,189 37,971 Net debt including hedges see note 31c 8,615 1,374 7,384 Total capital 52,402 44,563 45,355 Gearing 16.4% 3.1% 16.3% The increase in gearing since 31 December 2011 re ects the $7.2 billion increase in net debt in the year.
Net assets at 31 December 2012 were $0.6 billion higher than at 31 December 2011 due to net movements in equity, including the conversion of the convertible bond, offsetting the retained loss for the year.
Gearing levels remain at a sustainable level given the Groups strong level of operating cash ows.
Financial instrument sensitivities Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits, derivative financial instruments, trade receivables and trade payables.
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Groups financial instruments at 31 December to changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currencies.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the components of net debt, the ratio of xed to oating interest rates of the debt and derivatives portfolio and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the hedge designations in place at 31 December.
Inaddition, the commodity price impact for provisionally priced contracts is based on the related trade receivables and trade payables at 31 December.
As a consequence, this sensitivity analysis relates to the position at 31 December.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis: All income statement sensitivities also impact equity.
For debt and other deposits carried at amortised cost, carrying value does not change as interest rates move.
No sensitivity is provided for interest accruals as these are based on pre-agreed interest rates and therefore are not susceptible to further rate changes.
Changes in the carrying value of derivatives from movements in commodity prices and interest rates designated as cash ow hedges are assumed to be recorded fully within equity on the grounds of materiality.
No sensitivity has been calculated on derivatives and related underlying instruments designated into fair value hedge relationships as these are assumed materially to offset one another.
All hedge relationships are assumed to be fully effective on the grounds of materiality.
Debt with a maturity of less than one year is oating rate, unless it is a long term xed rate debt in its final year.
Translation of foreign subsidiaries and operations into the Groups presentation currency has been excluded from the sensitivity.
Using the above assumptions, the following table shows the illustrative effect on the income statement and equity that would result from reasonably possible changes in the relevant commodity price.
The Group has determined that at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, based on the above assumptions, there is no signi cant sensitivity to changes in market interest rates.
2012 2011 Income Income US$ million statement Equity statement Equity 1 Foreign currency sensitivities 10% US dollar to rand 74 73 81 77 10% US dollar to rand 74 73 81 77 2 10% US dollar to Brazilian real 190 190 402 405 2 10% US dollar to Brazilian real 194 194 279 282 10% US dollar to Australian dollar 41 41 36 36 10% US dollar to Australian dollar 41 41 36 36 2 10% US dollar to Chilean peso 29 29 15 15 2 10% US dollar to Chilean peso 36 36 18 18 Commodity price sensitivities 10% increase in the copper price 63 63 37 37 10% decrease in the copper price 63 63 37 37 10% increase in the platinum price 17 17 15 15 10% decrease in the platinum price 17 17 15 15 1 represents strengthening of US dollar against the respective currency.
2 Includes sensitivities for non-hedge derivatives related to capital expenditure.
The above sensitivities are calculated with reference to a single moment in time and are subject to change due to a number of factors including: uctuating trade receivable and trade payable balances derivative instruments and borrowings settled throughout the year uctuating cash balances changes in currency mix As the sensitivities are limited to year end financial instrument balances, they do not take account of the Groups sales and operating costs, which are highly sensitive to changes in commodity prices and exchange rates.
In addition, each of the sensitivities is calculated in isolation, whilst in reality commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currencies do not move independently.
172 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 26.
PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES 2012 Environmental Employee 1 1 US$ million restoration Decommissioning bene ts Other Total At 1 January 989 349 257 607 2,202 Acquired through business combinations 83 129 118 217 547 Charged to the income statement 90 218 424 732 Capitalised 37 42 9 70 Unwinding of discount 60 29 1 12 102 Amounts applied 37 2 129 109 277 Unused amounts reversed 34 1 143 178 Transfer to liabilities directly associated with assets classi ed as held for sale 83 22 10 108 223 Currency movements 16 7 16 12 27 At 31 December 1,089 517 439 903 2,948 1 The Group makes contributions to controlled funds to meet the cost of some of its environmental restoration and decommissioning liabilities, see note 16.
Maturity analysis of total provisions: US$ million 2012 2011 Current 564 372 Non-current 2,384 1,830 2,948 2,202 Environmental restoration The Group has an obligation to undertake restoration, rehabilitation and environmental work when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of a mining property.
A provision is recognised for the present value of such costs.
It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred over a period in excess of 20 years.
Decommissioning Provision is made for the present value of costs relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site restoration work.
Employee bene ts Provision is made for statutory or contractual employee entitlements including long service leave, annual leave, sickness pay obligations and cash settled share-based payment obligations.
It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred when employees choose to take their bene ts.
Other Other provisions primarily relate to indemnities, warranties and legal claims.
It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred over a five yearperiod.
Other provisions also includes obligations for certain long term contracts where the unavoidable costs of meeting the Groups obligations is expected to exceed thebene ts to be received, see note 5.
It is anticipated these costs will be incurred over a period in excess of 15 years.
DEFERRED TAX The movement in net deferred tax liabilities during the year is as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 At 1 January 5,200 5,252 Credited charged to the income statement 1,090 550 Charged credited to the statement of comprehensive income 86 10 Charged directly to equity 110 127 Acquired through business combinations 850 Transfer to assets held for sale 118 Disposal of businesses 5 Currency movements 192 714 At 31 December 4,846 5,200 Comprising: Deferred tax assets 1,223 530 Deferred tax liabilities 6,069 5,730 The amount of deferred tax recognised in the balance sheet is as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 Deferred tax assets Tax losses 374 273 Post employment bene ts 118 35 Share-based payments 9 15 Enhanced tax depreciation 560 Other temporary differences 162 207 1,223 530 Deferred tax liabilities Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 3,311 3,334 Fair value adjustments 2,582 1,806 Tax losses 29 103 Derivatives 15 167 Provisions 416 393 Chilean withholding tax 570 656 Other temporary differences 66 263 6,069 5,730 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 173 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27.
DEFERRED TAX continued The amount of deferred tax credited charged to the income statement is as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 22 615 Fair value adjustments 133 118 Tax losses 11 167 Derivatives 99 36 Provisions 41 82 Chilean withholding taxes 86 137 1 Other temporary differences 1,008 35 1,090 550 1 In 2012 this principally relates to Minas-Rio $960 million credit.
This is made up of a deferred tax credit of $1,360 million in relation to the impairment of Minas-Rio and a deferred tax charge of $400 million in relation to the partial derecognition of a deferred tax asset for enhanced tax depreciation in Minas-Rio.
The current expectation regarding the maturity of deferred tax balances is as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 Deferred tax assets Recoverable within one year 131 52 Recoverable after one year 1,092 478 1,223 530 Deferred tax liabilities Payable within one year 368 505 Payable after one year 5,701 5,225 6,069 5,730 The Group has the following balances in respect of which no deferred tax asset has been recognised: 2012 2011 Tax Tax Other Tax Tax Other losses losses temporary losses losses temporary US$ million revenue capital differences Total revenue capital differences Total Expiry date Within one year 17 17 Greater than one year, less than five years 286 286 Greater than five years 3 2,997 3,000 111 111 No expiry date 4,467 1,097 1,953 7,517 3,082 1,067 403 4,552 4,773 1,097 4,950 10,820 3,193 1,067 403 4,663 The Group also has unused tax credits of $16 million 2011: $18 million for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance sheet.
All of these credits expire within five years.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates and interests in joint ventures where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates and interests in joint ventures is represented by the contribution of those investments to the Groups retained earnings and amounted to $22,442million 2011: $25,876 million.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Group operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans.
It also operates post employment medical arrangements, principally in southern Africa.
fide ned contribution plans The fide ned contribution pension and medical cost represents the actual contributions payable by the Group to the various plans.
At 31 December 2012 there were no material outstanding or prepaid contributions and so no accrual or prepayment has been disclosed in the balance sheet in relation to these plans.
The assets of the fide ned contribution plans are held separately in independently administered funds.
The charge in respect of these plans is calculated on the basis of the contribution payable by the Group in the financial year.
The charge for the year for fide ned contribution pension plans net of amounts capitalised was $262million 2011: $254 million and for fide ned contribution medical plans net of amounts capitalised was $69million 2011: $57 million.
fide ned bene t pension plans and post employment medical plans Following the Groups acquisition of fide Beers on 16 August 2012, the Group has consolidated the defined benefit pension and post employment healthcare plans of fide Beers.
The majority of the defined benefit pension plans are funded.
The assets of these plans are held separately from those of the Group, in independently administered funds, in accordance with statutory requirements or local practice throughout the world.
The unfunded liabilities are principally in relation to termination indemnity plans in SouthAmerica.
The post employment medical arrangements provide health bene ts to retired employees and certain dependants.
Eligibility for cover is dependent upon certain criteria.
The majority of these plans are unfunded, and are principally in southern Africa.
The Groups provision of anti-retroviral therapy to HIV positive staff has not signi cantly impacted the post employment medical plan liability.
Independent quali ed actuaries carry out full valuations every three years using the projected unit credit method.
The actuaries have updated the valuations to 31December 2012.
174 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 28.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued Actuarial assumptions The principal assumptions used to determine the actuarial present value of bene t obligations and pension charges and credits under IAS 19 Employee Bene ts are detailed below shown as weighted averages : 2012 2011 Southern The Southern The % Africa Americas Europe Africa Americas Europe fide ned bene t pension plans Average discount rate for plan liabilities 8.1 6.9 4.3 8.5 7.8 4.8 Average rate of in ation 6.3 3.5 2.8 6.5 3.6 2.7 1 2 1 2 Average rate of increase in salaries 8.3 6.2 2.9 7.8 6.5 n a Average rate of increase of pensions in payment 6.3 3.2 3.1 6.5 3.3 3.0 3 Average long term rate of return on plan assets 8.4 10.2 4.2 9.2 12.8 5.0 Post employment medical plans Average discount rate for plan liabilities 8.0 n a 3.7 8.5 n a n a Average rate of in ation 6.3 n a 2.3 6.5 n a n a Expected average increase in healthcare costs 7.7 n a 7.0 7.9 n a n a 1 With the exception of fide Beers, plans in southern Africa have ceased future accrual of bene ts but some bene ts remain linked to salary increases.
2 With the exception of fide Beers, European plans have ceased future accrual of bene ts.
3 The long term expected return on plan assets has been set with reference to current market yields on government and corporate bonds, plus expected equity and corporate bondoutperformance over government bonds in the relevant jurisdictions.
The expected return on cash assets has been set with reference to current bank base rates.
The overall long term expectedrate of return for each asset class is weighted by the asset allocation to the asset class at the balance sheet date.
Mortality assumptions are determined based on standard mortality tables with adjustments, as appropriate, to re ect experience of conditions locally.
Insouthern Africa, the PA90 tables 2011: PA90 tables are used.
The main plans in Europe use the SAPS tables with plan speci c adjustments based onmortality investigations 2011: SAPS tables.
The main plans in the Americas use the RV2009 and AT2000 tables 2011: RV2009 and AT2000 tables.
Themortality tables used imply that a male or female aged 60 at the balance sheet date has the following future life expectancy: Male Female Years 2012 2011 2012 2011 Southern Africa 20.1 20.9 24.9 25.8 The Americas 23.3 23.2 27.4 27.2 Europe 28.5 27.4 30.1 30.0 Summary of plans by geography The Groups plans in respect of pension and post employment healthcare are summarised as follows: 2012 2011 Southern The Southern The US$ million Africa Americas Europe Total Africa Americas Europe Total 1 Assets fide ned bene t pension plans in surplus 176 176 70 70 Liabilities fide ned bene t pension plans in fide cit 225 603 828 181 171 352 Post employment medical plans in fide cit 573 8 581 287 287 573 225 611 1,409 287 181 171 639 1 Amounts are included in Other non-current assets.
Five year summary of plan assets and liabilities US$ million 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 fide ned bene t pension plans Fair value of plan assets 5,327 2,583 2,732 2,731 2,073 Present value of plan liabilities 5,862 2,792 2,840 2,975 2,157 Net fide cit 535 209 108 244 84 Surplus restriction 117 73 59 106 61 Net fide cit after surplus restriction 652 282 167 350 145 1 Actuarial gain loss on plan assets 151 32 76 184 392 2 Actuarial gain loss on plan liabilities 66 135 19 361 208 Post employment medical plans Fair value of plan assets 21 22 25 20 17 Present value of plan liabilities 602 309 337 322 241 Net fide cit 581 287 312 302 224 3 Actuarial gain on plan assets 121 4 Actuarial loss gain on plan liabilities 35 22 13 10 16 1 Net experience gains on pension plan assets were $151 million 2011: losses of $32 million: 2010: gains of $76 million: 2009: gains of $184 million: 2008: losses of $392 million.
2 Net experience losses on pension plan liabilities were $123 million 2011: losses of $10 million: 2010: gains of $38 million: 2009: losses of $17 million: 2008: losses of $29 million.
3 Net experience gains on medical plan assets were nil 2011: gains of $1 million: 2010: gains of $2 million: 2009: nil: 2008: gains of $1 million.
4 Net experience losses on medical plan liabilities were $32 million 2011: losses of $1 million: 2010: gains of $5 million: 2009: losses of $3 million: 2008: losses of $7 million.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 175 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued The actuarial gain recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income of $165 million 2011: loss of $214 million includes a charge for the increase in the surplus restriction of $17 million 2011: charge for the increase of $26 million.
The movement in the surplus restriction in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income differs from that in the table above due to the exclusion of a surplus restriction on fide Beers pension plans of $30 million arising from the acquisition, and exchange differences.
Cumulative net actuarial losses recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income are $427 million 2011: $592 million: 2010: $378million: 2009: $509million: 2008: $292 million.
Income statement The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2012 2011 Post Post employment employment Pension medical Pension medical US$ million plans plans Total plans plans Total Analysis of the amount charged to operating pro t Current service costs 18 4 22 18 3 21 Effects of settlements 99 Total within operating costs 27 4 31 18 3 21 Analysis of the amount charged to net finance costs 1 Expected return on plan assets 199 1 200 197 2 199 2 Interest costs on plan liabilities 196 34 230 181 24 205 Net charge to net finance costs 3 33 30 16 22 6 Total charge to the income statement 24 37 61 22527 1 Included in Investment income, see note 9.
2 Included in Interest expense, see note 9.
Pension plan assets and liabilities by geography The split of the present value of funded and unfunded obligations in fide ned bene t pension plans, the fair value of the pension assets and the long term expected rate of return at 31 December are as follows: 2012 2011 Southern Africa The Americas Europe Total Southern Africa The Americas Europe Total Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Rate of value Rate of value Rate of value value Rate of value Rate of value Rate of value value return US$ return US$ return US$ US$ return US$ return US$ return US$ US$ % million % million % million million % million % million % million million Equity 9.5 652 7.0 11 5.5 1,150 1,813 11.5 283 14.6 13 7.0 726 1,022 Bonds 7.8 1,077 10.5 133 3.8 1,605 2,815 8.1 512 12.6 124 3.7 715 1,351 Other 7.7 116 10.7 3 2.6 580 699 6.5 42 11.8 5 1.4 163 210 Fair value of pension 1 plan assets 1,845 147 3,335 5,327 837 142 1,604 2,583 Present value of 1 funded obligations 1,589 163 3,895 5,647 718 150 1,751 2,619 Present value of unfunded obligations 209 6 215 173 173 Present value of pension plan liabilities 1,589 372 3,901 5,862 718 323 1,751 2,792 Net surplus fide cit in pension plans 256 225 566 535 119 181 147 209 Surplus restriction related to pension plans 80 37 117 49 24 73 Recognised pension plan assets liabilities 176 225 603 652 70 181 171 282 Amounts in the balance sheet Pension assets 176 176 70 70 Pension liabilities 225 603 828 181 171 352 176 225 603 652 70 181 171 282 1 The fair value of assets was used to determine the funding level of the plans.
The fair value of the assets of the funded plans was sufficient to cover 94% 2011: 99% of the benefits that had accrued to members after allowing for expected increases in future earnings and pensions.
Companies within the Group are paying contributions as required in accordance with local actuarial advice.
176 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 28.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued Movement analysis The changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2012 2011 Post Post employment employment Pension medical Pension medical US$ million plans plans Total plans plans Total At 1 January 2,583 22 2,605 2,732 25 2,757 Acquired through business combinations 2,417 2,417 Effects of settlements 50 50 31 31 1 1 Expected return 199 1 200 197 2 199 1 1 Actuarial gains losses 151 151 32 1 31 2 Contributions paid by employer 90 90 81 81 Bene ts paid 151 1 152 136 1 137 Contributions paid by plan participants 11 11 Currency movements 87 1 86 229 5 234 At 31 December 5,327 21 5,348 2,583 22 2,605 1 The actual return on assets in respect of pension plans was $350 million 2011: $165 million.
2 The Group expects to contribute approximately $162 million to its pension plans and $32 million to its post employment medical plans in 2013.
The changes in the present value of fide ned bene t obligations are as follows: 2012 2011 Post Post employment employment Pension medical Pension medical US$ million plans plans Total plans plans Total At 1 January 2,792 309 3,101 2,840 337 3,177 Acquired through business combinations 2,974 302 3,276 1 Current service costs 18 3 21 18 3 21 Effects of settlements 41 41 31 31 1 Interest costs 196 30 226 181 24 205 1 Actuarial gains losses 66 36 30 135 22 157 1 Bene ts paid 151 24 175 136 16 152 Contributions paid by plan participants 1 1 1 1 Transfer to liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 3939 Currency movements 139 15 124 216 61 277 At 31 December 5,862 602 6,464 2,792 309 3,101 1 Movements in post employment medical plans exclude movements within the obligations transferred to held for sale.
Healthcare sensitivity analysis Amounts recognised in the Consolidated income statement in respect of post employment medical plans are sensitive to assumed healthcare cost trend rates.
A 1% change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects: 1% increase 1% decrease US$ million 2012 2011 2012 2011 Effect on the sum of service costs and interest costs 8 4 5 3 Effect on fide ned bene t obligations 78 35 63 28 29.
CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Called-up share capital 2012 2011 Number of shares US$ million Number of shares US$ million Called-up, allotted and fully paid: 5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each 50,000 50,000 86 Ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents each: At 1 January 1,342,967,458 738 1,342,932,714 738 Allotted during the year 62,492,295 34 34,744 At 31 December 1,405,459,753 772 1,342,967,458 738 86 During 2012, 8,354 ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents each were allotted to certain non-executive directors by subscription of their post-tax directors fees 86 2011: 5,487 ordinary shares.
In addition, 62,483,941 ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents each were allotted upon the conversion of Anglo American plc convertible bonds due 2014 2011: 29,257, see note 24.
Excluding shares held in treasury but including the shares held by the Group in other structures, as outlined in the Tenon and Employee bene t trust sections below the number and carrying value of called-up, allotted and fully paid ordinary shares as at 31 December 2012 was 1,390,954,633 and $764 million 2011: 1,323,428,547: $727million.
At general meetings, every member who is present in person has one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 177 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29.
CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued In the event of winding up, the holders of the cumulative preference shares will be entitled to the repayment of a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up, or credited as paid up, on the cumulative preference shares held by them and any accrued dividend, whether such dividend has been earned or declared or not, calculated up to the date of the winding up.
No ordinary shares were allotted on exercise of employee share option plans 2011: nil.
Own shares 86 91 Number of ordinary shares of 54 US cents 2012 2011 Own shares Treasury shares 14,505,120 19,538,911 Own shares held by subsidiaries and employee bene t trusts 115,970,790 115,226,079 Total own shares 130,475,910 134,764,990 The movement in treasury shares during the year is as follows: 86 91 Number of ordinary shares of 54 US cents 2012 2011 Treasury shares At 1 January 19,538,911 22,880,468 Transferred to employees in settlement of share awards 5,033,791 3,341,557 At 31 December 14,505,120 19,538,911 Tenon Tenon Investment Holdings Pty Limited Tenon, a wholly owned subsidiary of Anglo American South Africa Limited AASA, has entered into agreements with Epoch Investment Holdings Limited Epoch, Epoch Two Investment Holdings Limited Epoch Two and Tarl Investment Holdings Limited Tarl collectively the Investment Companies, each owned by independent charitable trusts whose trustees are independent of the Group.
Under the terms of these agreements, the Investment Companies have purchased Anglo American plc shares on the market and have granted to Tenon the right to nominate a third party which may include Anglo American plc but not any of its subsidiaries to take transfer of the Anglo American plc shares each has purchased on the market.
Tenon paid the Investment Companies 80% of the cost of the Anglo American plc shares including associated costs for this right to nominate, which together with subscriptions by Tenon for non-voting participating redeemable preference shares in the Investment Companies, provided all the funding required to acquire the Anglo American plc shares through the market.
These payments by Tenon were sourced from the cash resources of AASA.
Tenon is able to exercise its right of nomination at any time up to 31December 2025 against payment of an average amount of $6.41 per share to Epoch, $9.96 per share to Epoch Two and $8.27 per share to Tarl which will be equal to 20% of the total costs respectively incurred by Epoch, Epoch Two and Tarl in purchasing shares nominated for transfer to the third party.
These funds will then become available for redemption of the preference shares issued by the Investment Companies.
The amount payable by the third party on receipt of the AngloAmerican plc shares will accrue to Tenon and, in accordance with paragraph 33 of IAS 32, any resulting gain or loss recorded by Tenon will not be recognised in the Consolidated income statement of Anglo American plc.
Under the agreements, the Investment Companies will receive dividends on the shares they hold and have agreed to waive the right to vote on those shares.
The preference shares issued to the charitable trusts are entitled to a participating right of up to 10% of the pro t after tax of Epoch and 5% of the pro t after tax of Epoch Two and Tarl.
The preference shares issued to Tenon will carry a xed coupon of 3% plus a participating right of up to 80% of the pro t after tax of Epoch and 85% of the pro t after tax of Epoch Two and Tarl.
Any remaining distributable earnings in the Investment Companies, after the above dividends, are then available for distribution as ordinary dividends to the charitable trusts.
The structure effectively provides Tenon with a beneficial interest in the price risk on these shares together with a participation in future dividend receipts.
The Investment Companies will retain legal title to the shares until Tenon exercises its right to nominate a transferee.
At 31 December 2012 the Investment Companies together held 112,300,129 2011: 112,300,129 Anglo American plc shares, which represented 8.1% 2011:8.5% of the ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares with a market value of $3,455million 2011: $4,125million.
The Investment Companies are not permitted to hold more than an aggregate of 10% of the issued share capital of Anglo American plc at any one time.
Although the Group has no voting rights in the Investment Companies and cannot appoint or remove trustees of the charitable trusts, the Investment Companies continue to meet the accounting fide nition of a subsidiary in accordance with IAS 27.
As a result, the Investment Companies are consolidated in accordance with the fide nitions of IAS 27 and the principles set out in SIC-12.
Employee bene t trust The provision of shares to certain of the Companys share option and share incentive schemes may be facilitated by an employee bene t trust or settled by theissue of treasury shares.
During 2012 no shares 2011: nil from the trust were transferred to employees in settlement of share awards.
The employee bene t trust has waived the right to receive dividends on these shares.
The costs of operating the trust are borne by the Group but are not material.
Share-based payments During the year ended 31 December 2012 the Group had share-based payment arrangements with employees relating to shares of the Company, the details of which are described in the Remuneration report.
All of these Company schemes are equity settled, either by award of ordinary shares BSP, LTIP and SIP or award of options to acquire ordinary shares ESOS, DOP and SAYE.
The ESOS is now closed to new participants, having been replaced with the BSP.
The DOP has since replaced the ESOS for use in special circumstances, relating to the recruitment or retention of key executives.
No options have been granted under theDOP.
178 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 29.
CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued The total share-based payment charge relating to Anglo American plc shares for the year is split as follows: US$ million 2012 2011 BSP 103 92 LTIP 46 36 Other schemes 8 15 1 Share-based payment charge relating to Anglo American plc shares 157 143 1 In addition, there are equity settled employee share-based payment charges of $89 million 2011: $47 million relating to Kumba Iron Ore Limited shares and $72 million 2011: $72 million relating to Anglo American Platinum Limited shares.
Certain business units also operate cash settled employee share-based payment schemes.
These schemes had a net charge of $3 million 2011: credit of $2 million.
Schemes settled by award of ordinary shares The fair value of ordinary shares awarded under the BSP, LTIP and LTIP AOSC, being the more material share schemes, was calculated using a Black Scholes model.
The fair value of shares awarded under the LTIP TSR scheme was calculated using a Monte Carlo model.
The assumptions used in these calculations are set out below: 2012 2011 1 Arrangement BSP LTIP LTIP AOSC LTIP TSR BSP LTIP LTIP AOSC LTIP TSR Date of grant 02 03 12 02 03 12 02 03 12 02 03 12 04 03 11 04 03 11 04 03 11 04 03 11 Number of instruments 4,579,741 1,044,808 329,665 329,665 3,364,610 879,630 267,407 267,407 Share price at the date of grant 26.41 26.41 26.41 26.41 32.08 31.99 31.99 31.99 Contractual life years 3333 3333 2 3 4 5 2 3 4 5 Vesting conditions Expected volatility 40% 40% 40% 40% 40% 40% 40% 40% Risk free interest rate 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 1.9% 1.9% 1.9% 1.9% Expected departures 5% pa 5% pa 5% pa 5% pa 5% pa 5% pa 5% pa 5% pa Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria at date of grant 100% 100% 100% n a 100% 100% 100% n a Fair value at date of grant weighted average 25.78 26.41 26.41 15.24 33.25 33.25 33.25 21.80 1 The number of instruments used in the fair value models may differ from the total number of instruments awarded in the year due to awards made subsequent to the fair value calculations.
The fair value calculated per the assumptions above has been applied to the total number of awards.
The difference in income statement charge is not considered signi cant.
2 Three years of continuous employment with enhancement shares having variable vesting based on non-market based performance conditions.
3 Three years of continuous employment.
4 Variable vesting dependent on three years of continuous employment and Group AOSC target being achieved.
5 Variable vesting dependent on three years of continuous employment and market based performance conditions being achieved.
The expected volatility is based on historic volatility over the last five years.
The risk free interest rate is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds with aterm similar to the expected life of the award.
The charges arising in respect of the other Anglo American plc employee share schemes that the Group operated during the year are not considered material.
The movements in the number of shares for the more signi cant share-based payment arrangements are as follows: 1 Bonus Share Plan 86 Ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents may be awarded under the terms of this scheme for no consideration.
Further information in respect of the BSP, including performance conditions, is shown in the Remuneration report.
1 2 Long Term Incentive Plan 86 Ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents may be awarded under the terms of this scheme for no consideration.
2012 2011 Outstanding at 1 January 3,720,535 4,012,568 Conditionally awarded in year 1,704,138 1,414,444 Vested in year 1,060,822 730,807 Forfeited in year 378,080 975,670 Outstanding at 31 December 3,985,771 3,720,535 1 The early vesting of share awards is permitted at the discretion of the Company upon, inter alia, termination of employment, ill health or death.
2 The LTIP awards are contingent on pre-established performance criteria being met.
Further information in respect of this scheme is shown in the Remuneration report.
Share Incentive Plan 86 Ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents may be awarded under the terms of this scheme for no consideration.
Awards outstanding at Awards outstanding at 31December 2012 31December 2011 Latest release date Share Incentive Plan 1,115,426 1,016,074 7 December 2015 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 179 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29.
CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Schemes settled by award of options The fair value of options granted under the SAYE scheme, being the only material option scheme, was calculated using a Black Scholes model.
The assumptions used in these calculations for the current and prior years are set out in the table below: 1 Arrangement 2012 SAYE 2011 SAYE Date of grant 20 04 12 20 04 11 Number of instruments 245,790 115,026 Exercise price 19.68 25.47 Share price at the date of grant 24.60 31.85 Contractual life years 3.5-7.5 3.5-7.5 2 Vesting conditions 3-7 3-7 Expected volatility 40% 40% Expected option life years 3.5-7.5 3.5-7.5 Risk free interest rate weighted average 0.9% 2.3% Expected departures 5% pa 5% pa Fair value per option granted weighted average 6.14 11.77 1 The number of instruments used in the fair value models may differ from the total number of instruments awarded in the year due to awards made subsequent to the fair value calculations.
2 Number of years of continuous employment.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk free interest rate is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds with a term similar to the expected life of the option.
A reconciliation of option movements for the more signi cant share-based payment arrangements over the year to 31 December 2012 and the prior year is shown below.
All options outstanding at 31 December 2012 with an exercise date on or prior to 31 December 2012 are deemed exercisable.
Options were exercised regularly during the year and the weighted average share price for the year ended 31 December 2012 was 21.43 2011: 27.96.
1 Executive Share Option Scheme 86 Options to acquire ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents were outstanding under the terms of this scheme as follows: 2012 2011 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Number price Number price Outstanding at 1 January 2,500,107 11.42 3,488,329 11.22 Exercised in year 809,259 10.83 949,341 10.75 Forfeited in year 56,051 13.42 38,881 10.09 Outstanding at 31 December 1,634,797 11.64 2,500,107 11.42 1 The early exercise of share options is permitted at the discretion of the Company upon, inter alia, termination of employment, ill health or death.
1 SAYE Share Option Scheme 86 Options to acquire ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents were outstanding under the terms of this scheme as follows: 2012 2011 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Number price Number price Outstanding at 1 January 1,520,677 12.91 1,669,812 12.33 Granted in year 245,790 24.60 115,026 25.47 Exercised in year 589,299 10.11 125,333 14.99 Forfeited in year 128,664 20.86 138,828 14.47 Outstanding at 31 December 1,048,504 16.26 1,520,677 12.91 1 The early exercise of share options is permitted at the discretion of the Company upon, inter alia, termination of employment, ill health or death.
CONSOLIDATED EQUITY ANALYSIS Fair value and other reserves comprise: Total Convertible Available Cash fair value debt for sale ow hedge Other and other 1 US$ million reserve reserve reserve reserves reserves Balance at 1 January 2011 355 468 38 831 1,692 Total comprehensive income expense 108 33 75 Other 7 7 Balance at 1 January 2012 355 576 5 824 1,760 Total comprehensive income 118 10 128 Conversion of convertible bond 355 355 Other 667 667 Balance at 31 December 2012 694 15 157 866 1 Following a capital reduction in the Corporate segment, $667 million has been transferred from the legal reserve to retained earnings, reducing the legal reserve from $675 million to $8million.
Other reserves also comprise a revaluation reserve of $34 million 2011: $34 million and a capital redemption reserve of $115 million 2011: $115 million.
180 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 31.
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW ANALYSIS a Reconciliation of loss pro t before tax to cash ows from operations US$ million 2012 2011 Loss pro t before tax 239 10,782 Depreciation and amortisation 2,289 1,967 Share-based payment charges 233 254 Non-operating special items and remeasurements 1,394 183 Operating and nancing remeasurements 205 138 Non-cash element of operating special items 6,913 105 Net finance costs before remeasurements 288 20 Share of net income from associates 432 977 Provisions 127 6 Increase in inventories 330 352 Increase in operating receivables 31 264 Decrease increase in operating payables 166 457 Deferred stripping 148 171 Other adjustments 40 8 Cash ows from operations 7,021 11,498 b Reconciliation to the balance sheet Medium and Cash and cash equivalents Short term borrowings long term borrowings US$ million 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Balance sheet 9,094 11,732 2,604 1,018 15,150 11,855 1 Balance sheet disposal groups 227 14 Bank overdrafts 9 9 Net debt classi cations 9,312 11,732 2,609 1,018 15,150 11,855 1 Disposal group balances are shown within Assets classi ed as held for sale and Liabilities directly associated with assets classi ed as held for sale on the balance sheet.
c Movement in net debt Cash Debt due Debt due Net debt Net debt and cash within after excluding including 1 2 US$ million equivalents one year one year hedges Hedges hedges Balance at 1 January 2011 6,460 1,535 11,904 6,979 405 7,384 Cash ow 5,983 1,261 964 6,280 226 6,054 Unwinding of discount on convertible bond 71 71 71 Disposal of businesses 555 Reclassi cations 777 777 Movement in fair value 264 264 404 140 Other non-cash movements 18 38 56 56 Currency movements 711 46 609 56 6 62 Balance at 1 January 2012 11,732 1,018 11,855 1,141 233 1,374 Cash ow 2,309 747 5,633 7,195 149 7,344 Unwinding of discount on convertible bond 25 25 25 Conversion of convertible bond 1,507 1,507 1,507 Acquired through business combinations 3 1,578 1,581 15 1,596 Disposal of businesses 53 228 281 281 Reclassi cations 2,396 2,396 Movement in fair value 2 198 196 229 33 Other non-cash movements 14 21 35 35 Currency movements 111 20 29 62 62 Balance at 31 December 2012 9,312 2,609 15,150 8,447 168 8,615 1 The Group operates in certain countries where the existence of exchange controls may restrict the use of certain cash balances principally South Africa and Venezuela.
These restrictions are not expected to have a material effect on the Groups ability to meet its ongoing obligations.
2 Derivative instruments that provide an economic hedge of assets and liabilities in net debt are included above to re ect the true net debt position of the Group at the year end.
These consist of net current derivative liabilities of $116 million 2011: assets of $82 million and net non-current derivative liabilities of $52 million 2011: $315 million which are classi ed within Derivative financial assets and Derivative financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 181 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 32.
ACQUISITIONS fide Beers On 16 August 2012 Anglo American plc acquired an additional 40% of the share capital of fide Beers Socit Anonyme fide Beers to bring its total shareholding to 85%.
fide Beers is a leading diamond company with expertise in the exploration, mining and marketing of diamonds.
The Group funded the acquisition by way of cash consideration of $5.2 billion, less cash acquired of $0.4 billion.
The acquisition has been accounted for as abusiness combination using the acquisition method of accounting with an effective date of 16 August 2012, being the date the Group gained control of DeBeers.
The provisional fair values of identi able assets and liabilities of fide Beers as at the date of acquisition were: US$ million 2012 Assets Intangible assets 1,588 Property, plant and equipment including mineral properties and projects 8,912 Investments in associates 12 Deferred tax assets 247 Inventory 2,133 1 Other assets 328 Total assets 13,220 Liabilities 2 Provisions for liabilities and charges including contingent liabilities and retirement bene t obligations 1,487 Deferred tax liabilities 1,097 Loans and borrowings 1,581 Other liabilities 468 Total liabilities 4,633 Net assets acquired 8,587 3 Non-controlling interests 1,423 Net attributable assets acquired 7,164 Goodwill 2,355 Net attributable assets including goodwill 9,519 Consideration Cash 5,223 Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 407 Book value of existing shareholding 2,686 4 Fair value gain on existing 45% shareholding 2,017 Total consideration 9,519 1 The fair value of other assets includes receivables of $202 million.
2 Contingent liabilities of $185 million relating to legal claims in various jurisdictions.
3 Non-controlling interests have been measured at their proportionate share of fide Beers identi able net assets.
4 Recognised as a non-operating remeasurement, see note 5.
Goodwill recognised arises principally from the signi cant synergies associated with the Group having control of fide Beers, the value associated with the DeBeers workforce and the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the assets acquired and their tax bases.
No goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Intangible assets acquired relate to brand names, customer relationships and contracts.
From the acquisition date, fide Beers has contributed $2,353 million of revenue and $159 million of underlying earnings to the Group.
If the acquisition had completed on 1 January 2012, fide Beers would have contributed revenue of $6,074 million for 2012 an increase of $3,721 million and underlying earnings of$399 million an increase of $87 million.
The Groups attributable share of fide Beers earnings from the acquisition date after special items and remeasurements including special items and remeasurements charges of $319 million after tax relating to the reversal of fair value uplifts of inventory and depreciation and amortisation on fair value uplifts of the Groups pre-existing 45% shareholding amounted to a $160 million loss.
If the acquisition of fide Beers had been completed on 1 January 2012, the Groups attributable share of fide Beers earnings including special items and remeasurements charges of $485 million after tax relating to the reversal offair value uplifts of inventory and depreciation and amortisation on fair value uplifts of the Groups pre-existing 45% shareholding would have amounted to a $80million loss increasing the Groups loss attributable to equity shareholders by $76 million to $1,569 million.
Other On 20 July 2012 Anglo American plc increased its shareholding in Kumba Iron Ore Limited by 4.5% through the exercise of options acquired in 2011 and 2012.
This increased the Groups shareholding from 65.2% to 69.7%, for a total cost of $948 million.
The Group made no material acquisitions in 2011.
182 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 33.
DISPOSALS OF SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES US$ million 2012 2011 Net assets disposed Property, plant and equipment 208 167 Other non-current assets 65 79 Current assets 347 461 Current liabilities 187 55 Non-current liabilities 273 108 Net assets 160 544 Non-controlling interests 5 42 Net assets disposed 155 502 Cumulative translation gain loss recycled from reserves 6 45 Other charges 2 1 Net loss gain on disposals 21 337 Net sales proceeds 130 884 Net cash and cash equivalents disposed 38 358 Accrued transaction costs and similar items 8 3 2 Net cash in ow from disposals 100 529 1 Included in non-operating special items, see note 5.
2 Net cash in ow in the year ended 31 December 2012 was nil in respect of disposals in 2011 2011: $4 million in respect of disposals in 2010.
Total net cash in ow from disposals in 2012 was $100 million 2011: $533 million.
Of this, a net cash in ow of $100 million 2011: $514 million related to disposals of subsidiaries and nil 2011: $19 million related to the sale of interests in jointventures.
Disposal in 2012 On 24 April 2012 the Group announced the sale of Scaw South Africa and related companies to an investment consortium led by the Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa IDC and Anglo Americans partners in Scaw South Africa, being Izingwe Holdings Pty Limited, Shanduka Resources Pty Limited and the Southern Palace Group of Companies Pty Limited, for a total consideration of $440 million on a cash and debt free basis.
Following this announcement, Scaw South Africa was transferred to assets held for sale.
The completion of the sale took place on 23 November 2012 for a combined net cash in ow of $100 million.
Disposals in 2011 Disposals of subsidiaries during 2011 mainly related to the disposal of Lisheen and a 74% interest in Black Mountain the Groups remaining zinc operations and disposals of Tarmac businesses China, Turkey and Romania in the Other Mining and Industrial segment.
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE The following assets and liabilities were classi ed as held for sale at 31 December 2012.
The Group expects to complete the sale of these businesses within 12months of the reporting date.
There were no assets or liabilities classi ed as held for sale at 31 December 2011.
2012 Tarmac Quarry 1 US$ million Amap Materials Total Intangible assets 1 418 419 Property, plant and equipment 171 1,655 1,826 2 Other non-current assets 41115 Total non-current assets 176 2,084 2,260 Inventories 103 111 214 Trade and other receivables 157 292 449 Cash and cash equivalents 26 201 227 Total current assets 286 604 890 Total assets classi ed as held for sale 462 2,688 3,150 Trade and other payables 149 406 555 Short term borrowings 11 3 14 Provisions for liabilities and charges 3 24 27 Total current liabilities 163 433 596 Deferred tax liabilities 150 150 Provisions for liabilities and charges 59 97 156 2 Other non-current liabilities 17 17 Total non-current liabilities 59 264 323 Total liabilities associated with assets classi ed as held for sale 222 697 919 Net assets 240 1,991 2,231 1 The Groups investments in Amap and Tarmac Quarry Materials are included in the Other Mining and Industrial segment.
2 Other non-current assets relate to loans and receivables and investments in associates.
Other non-current liabilities relate to government grants received.
A loss on transfer to assets held for sale of $404 million for Amap and $135 million for Tarmac Quarry Materials have been recognised in non-operating special items, see note5.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 183 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 35.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary course of business.
Additionally, and as set out in the 2007 demerger agreement, AngloAmerican and the Mondi Group have agreed to indemnify each other, subject to certain limitations, against certain liabilities.
Anglo American has also provided Mitsubishi Corporation LLC with indemnities against certain liabilities as part of the sale of a 24.5% interest in AA Sur.
Having taken appropriate legal advice, the Group believes that a material liability arising from the indemnities provided is unlikely.
The Group is required to provide guarantees in several jurisdictions in respect of environmental restoration and decommissioning obligations.
The Group has provided for the estimated cost of these activities.
No contingent liabilities were secured on the assets of the Group at 31 December 2012 or 31 December 2011.
Other Kumba Iron Ore Kumba Sishen Supply Agreement Arbitration A dispute arose between Sishen Iron Ore Company Proprietary Limited SIOC and ArcelorMittal South Africa Limited AMSA in February 2010, in relation toSIOCs contention that the contract mining agreement concluded between them in 2001 had become inoperative as a result of the fact that AMSA had failed to convert its old order mining rights.
This dispute has been referred to arbitration.
On 9 December 2011 SIOC and AMSA agreed to delay the arbitration proceedings in relation to the Sishen Supply Agreement until the final resolution of the mining rights dispute.
This arbitration is only expected to commence in the fourth quarter of 2013, with possible resolution only expected in the third quarter of 2014 at the earliest.
An Interim Pricing Agreement IPA 2 between SIOC and AMSA was in place until 31 July 2012 and was extended to 31 December 2012.
In December 2012 a further interim agreement was concluded, after negotiations which were facilitated by the Department of Trade and Industry DTI.
Thefurther interim agreement will govern the sale of iron ore from the Sishen mine to AMSA for the period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013, or until theconclusion of the legal processes in relation to the 2001 Sishen Supply Agreement whichever is the sooner, at a weighted average price of $65 per tonne.
Ofthe total 4.8Mt, about 1.5Mt is anticipated to be railed to Saldanha Steel and the rest to AMSAs inland operations.
21.4% undivided share of the Sishen mine mineral rights On 3 February 2012 both the Department of Mineral Resources DMR and Imperial Crown Trading 289 Proprietary Limited ICT submitted applications for leave to appeal against the High Court judgment.
SIOC applied for leave to present a conditional cross-appeal, in order to protect its rights.
The Supreme Court of Appeal SCA hearing will be held on 19 February 2013, and the SCA judgment is expected to be received early in the second half of 2013.
The High Court order did not affect the interim supply agreement between AMSA and SIOC.
SIOC will continue to take the necessary steps to protect its shareholders interests in this regard.
Anglo American South Africa Limited AASA AASA, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a defendant in 24 separate lawsuits in South Africa each one on behalf of a former mineworker or his dependents or survivors who allegedly contracted silicosis working for gold mining companies in which AASA was a shareholder and to which AASA provided various technical and administrative services.
In addition, AASA is a defendant in one lawsuit led in the High Court in London, England on behalf of 19 former mineworkers or their dependents, a second lawsuit led there on behalf of 1,106 named former mineworkers or their dependents and also as a representative claim on behalf of all black underground miners in Anglo gold mines who have been certi ed as suffering from silicosis and related diseases, a third lawsuit led there on behalf of 630 named former mineworkers or their dependents and a fourth lawsuit led there on behalf of 1,232 former mineworkers or their dependents.
AASA is also named as one of 30 defendants in a class certi cation application led in South Africa purportedly on behalf of 17,000 claimants.
The aggregate amount of claims in the 24 South African lawsuits is less than $5 million.
No speci c amount of damages has been speci ed in the claims led in England or the class certi cation application led in South Africa.
If the individual claims are determined adversely to AASA there are a substantial number of additional former mineworkers or their dependents or survivors who may seek to bring similar claims or whose claims could become part of the representative claim led in England or the class action claim in South Africa.
The arbitration hearing for 11 of the individual South African claims is expected to begin in October 2013.
AASA is contesting the jurisdiction of the English courts to hear the claims led against it in that jurisdiction and will oppose the application for class certi cation in South Africa.
Platinum At 31 December 2012 Platinum has certain unresolved tax matters that are currently under dispute with the South African Revenue Service SARS.
Platinum management has consulted with external tax and legal advisers, who support the positions taken.
Nonetheless, Platinum management are actively discussing the issue with SARS with a view to seeking resolution and believe that the accounting for these matters is appropriate in the results for the year ended 31December 2012.
184 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 36.
COMMITMENTS At 31 December the Group had the following outstanding capital commitments: US$ million 2012 2011 Contracted but not provided 2,792 2,131 In addition, Anglo American Marketing Limited had outstanding commitments under contracts relating to shipping services of $1,033 million.
In 2011 these commitments of $1,186 million were met by Kumba Iron Ore Limited.
At 31 December the Group had the following commitments under non-cancellable operating leases: US$ million 2012 2011 Expiry date Within one year 154 161 Greater than one year, less than two years 122 112 Greater than two years, less than five years 200 185 Greater than five years 277 347 753 805 Operating leases relate principally to land and buildings, vehicles and shipping vessels.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, see note 38.
The Company and its subsidiaries, in the ordinary course of business, enter into various sales, purchase and service transactions with joint ventures and associates and others in which the Group has a material interest.
These transactions are under terms that are no less favourable to the Group than those arranged with third parties.
These transactions are not considered to be signi cant, other than purchases from fide Beers joint ventures which amounted to$1,049 million in the period from 16 August 2012 the date the Group obtained control of fide Beers, see note 32 to 31 December 2012.
The Group had the following amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates: Joint ventures Associates US$ million 2012 2011 2012 2011 1 Loans receivable 261 263 305 572 Dividends received 286 344 1 These loans are included in Financial asset investments.
At 31 December 2012 the directors of the Company and their immediate relatives controlled 0.1% 2011: 0.1% of the voting shares of the Company.
Remuneration and bene ts received by directors are disclosed in the Remuneration report.
Remuneration and bene ts of key management personnel including directors are disclosed in note 8.
Information relating to pension fund arrangements is disclosed in note 28.
Other related party transactions in relation to fide Beers The Group has in prior years entered into various transactions with DB Investments SA and fide Beers SA together fide Beers which were considered to be related party transactions for the purposes of the United Kingdom Listing Authoritys Listing Rules as a result of the interest in fide Beers held by CHL Holdings Limited CHL and certain of its subsidiaries in which Mr N. F. Oppenheimer, a director of the Company at the time of these transactions, had a relevant interest for the purpose of the rules.
The related party transactions entered into and which continued to be relevant in the year ended 31 December 2012 are detailed below.
On 4 November 2011 Anglo American announced it had entered into an agreement with CHL and Centhold International Limited CHL Sellers, together representing the Oppenheimer family interests in fide Beers, to acquire their 40% interest in fide Beers for a total cash consideration of $5.1 billion, subject to adjustment and conditions as provided for in the agreement the Transaction.
In view of the fact that the CHL Sellers were ultimately controlled through intermediary companies by trusts the Seller Trusts of which Mr N. F. Oppenheimer is a potential discretionary bene ciary and Mr N. F. Oppenheimer had been a director of Anglo American within the 12 months preceding agreement of the Transaction, the Transaction was categorised as a related party transaction requiring the approval of Anglo American shareholders other than Mr N. F. Oppenheimer and his associates.
This approval was obtained at a general meeting of the Company held on 6 January 2012.
Further information in relation to the Transaction was set out in the circular posted to the Companys shareholders in December 2011.
The Government of the Republic of Botswana elected not to exercise its pre-emption rights to participate in the Transaction on a proportionate basis and accordingly Anglo Americans interest in fide Beers increased to 85% on completion of the Transaction on 16 August 2012, following the obtaining of certain speci ed regulatory and government approvals to which the Transaction was subject.
Anglo American paid a total cash consideration of $5.2 billion, comprising the adjusted purchase price under the Transaction.
At 31 December 2012 the amount of outstanding loans owed to the Group by fide Beers was $599 million 2011: $301 million, which includes loans acquired from the CHL Sellers at the closing of the Transaction of $277 million.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 185 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 38.
GROUP COMPANIES The principal subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and proportionately consolidated joint arrangements of the Group and the Group percentage of equity capital, joint arrangements and joint venture interests are set out below.
All these interests are held indirectly by the parent company and are consolidated within these financial statements.
As permitted by section 410 of the Companies Act 2006, the Group has restricted the information provided to its principal subsidiaries in order to avoid a statement of excessive length.
1 Percentage of equity owned Subsidiary undertakings Country of incorporation Business 2012 2011 Iron Ore and Manganese Kumba Iron Ore Limited see note 32 South Africa Iron ore 69.7% 65.2% Anglo Ferrous Brazil SA Brazil Iron ore 100% 100% 2 Anglo American Minrio fide Ferro Brasil SA Brazil Iron ore project 100% 100% Metallurgical Coal Anglo American Metallurgical Coal Holdings Limited Australia Coal 100% 100% Peace River Coal Inc. Canada Coal 100% 100% Thermal Coal 3 Anglo Coal South Africa Coal 100% 100% Copper Anglo American Sur SA Chile Copper 50.1% 75.5% 4 Anglo American Norte SA Chile Copper 100% 100% Minera Quellaveco SA Peru Copper project 81.9% 81.9% Nickel Anglo American Brasil Limitada Barro Alto Brazil Nickel project 100% 100% Anglo American Brasil Limitada Codemin Brazil Nickel 100% 100% Minera Loma fide Nquel, CA Venezuela Nickel 91.4% 91.4% Platinum Anglo American Platinum Limited South Africa Platinum 79.9% 79.8% Diamonds fide Beers Socit Anonyme Luxembourg Diamonds 85% 45% Other Mining and Industrial 5 Anglo American Fosfatos Brasil Limitada Brazil Fertilisers and acid 100% 100% 6 Anglo American Nibio Brasil Limitada Brazil Niobium 100% 100% 7 Anglo Ferrous Amap Minerao Limitada Brazil Iron ore system 70% 70% Tarmac Group Limited UK Construction materials 100% 100% Tarmac Building Products Limited UK Construction materials 100% 100% 8 Scaw South Africa Proprietary Limited South Africa Steel, engineering works and grinding media 74% See page 187 for footnotes.
186 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 38.
GROUP COMPANIES continued 9 Percentage of equity owned Joint ventures Country of incorporation Business 2012 2011 LLX Minas-Rio Logstica Comercial Exportadora SA Brazil Port 49% 49% Compaa Minera Doa Ins fide Collahuasi SCM Chile Copper 44% 44% 10 Debswana Botswana Diamonds 50% Namdeb Holdings Namibia Diamonds 50% AI Futtain Tarmac Quarry Products Limited Dubai Construction materials 49% 49% Midland Quarry Products Limited UK Construction materials 50% 50% Tarmac Oman Limited Hong Kong Construction materials 50% 50% Midmac Tarmac Qatar LLC Qatar Construction materials 50% 50% 9 Percentage of equity owned Associates Country of incorporation Business 2012 2011 11 Samancor Holdings Proprietary Limited South Africa Manganese 40% 40% 11 Groote Eylandt Mining Company Pty Limited GEMCO Australia Manganese 40% 40% 11 Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Company Pty Limited TEMCO Australia Manganese 40% 40% 12 Jellinbah Group Pty Limited Australia Coal 33.3% 33.3% Cerrejn Zona Norte SA Colombia Coal 33.3% 33.3% Carbones del Cerrejn LLC Anguilla Coal 33.3% 33.3% Percentage owned 13 Proportionately consolidated jointly controlled operations Location Business 2012 2011 Drayton Australia Coal 88.2% 88.2% Moranbah North Australia Coal 88% 88% 14 German Creek Australia Coal 70% 70% Foxleigh Australia Coal 70% 70% Dawson Australia Coal 51% 51% 1 The proportion of voting rights of subsidiaries held by the Group is the same as the proportion of equity owned.
2 Anglo Ferrous Minas-Rio Minerao SA changed its name to Anglo American Minrio fide Ferro Brasil SA in 2012.
3 A division of Anglo Operations Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary.
5 Copebrs Limitada changed its name to Anglo American Fosfatos Brasil Limitada in 2012.
6 Minerao Catalo fide Gois Limitada changed its name to Anglo American Nibio Brasil Limitada in 2012.
7 Anglo Ferrous Amap Minerao Limitada has been reclassi ed from Iron Ore and Manganese to Other Mining and Industrial to align with internal management reporting.
8 On 23 November 2012 the Group disposed of Scaw South Africa and related companies, see note 33.
9 All equity interests shown are ordinary shares.
10 Consolidated on a 19.2% proportionate basis, re ecting economic interest.
11 These entities have a 30 June year end.
12 The Groups effective interest in the Jellinbah operation is 23.3%.
13 The wholly owned subsidiary Anglo American Metallurgical Coal Holdings Limited holds the proportionately consolidated jointly controlled operations.
14 The German Creek operation includes both Capcoal Open Cut and Underground operations.
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries In July 2012 the Group increased its shareholding in Kumba Iron Ore Limited by 4.5% through the exercise of options acquired in 2011 and 2012, thereby increasing its shareholding from 65.2% to 69.7%.
In August 2012 the Group sold a 25.4% interest in Anglo American Sur to a Corporacin Nacional del Cobre fide Chile Codelco and Mitsui & Co. Ltd. joint venture company controlled by Codelco, for proceeds of $1.9 billion.
As disclosed in note 11d, capital gains tax of $290 million relating to the pro t on sale has been charged directly to equity.
In August 2012 the Group acquired an additional 40% of the share capital of fide Beers Socit Anonyme, see note 32.
EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER END OF YEAR Platinum On 15 January 2013 the Group announced the outcome of its review of the Anglo American Platinum business to create a sustainable, competitive and pro table platinum business for the long term bene t of all stakeholders.
The key proposals from the review were to place the Khuseleka and Khomanani mines on care and maintenance, recon gure the Rustenburg operations into three operating mines, close the Union Mine North declines and place other processing assets on long term care and maintenance.
Anglo American Platinum is engaging with the South African government, organised labour and other stakeholders and would pursue the consultation process in terms of the requirements of South African law prior to implementing these proposals.
As a result, if the Group is not expected to receive future economic bene ts from these mines, property, plant and equipment, a post-tax impairment of up to $0.6 billion could be recognised as an operating special item in the income statement in 2013.
The gross cash costs associated with the implementation of the Portfolio Review and overhead review, which is expected to be approximately $0.3 billion after tax: $0.2 billion, would be expensed as incurred as an operating special item in the income statement during the course of 2013.
Other On 7 January 2013 the Group announced the completion of the 50:50 joint venture with Lafarge, which combined their cement, aggregates, ready-mix concrete, asphalt and asphalt surfacing, maintenance services, and waste services businesses in the United Kingdom.
The joint venture will be known as Lafarge Tarmac.
On 4 January 2013 the Group announced the sale of its 70% interest in the Amap iron ore system in Brazil to Zamin Ferrous Ltd.
The transaction is subject to state regulatory approval.
With the exception of the above and the proposed final dividend for 2012, see note 12, there have been no material reportable events since 31 December 2012.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 187 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 40.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE PARENT COMPANY a Balance sheet of the Company, Anglo American plc, as at 31 December 2012 US$ million Note 2012 2011 Fixed assets Fixed asset investments 40c 12,361 13,046 Current assets Amounts due from subsidiaries 14,950 13,496 Prepayments and other debtors 4 4 Cash at bank and in hand 41 23 14,995 13,523 Creditors due within one year Amounts owed to group undertakings 448 395 Other creditors 4 12 452 407 Net current assets 14,543 13,116 Total assets less current liabilities 26,904 26,162 Liabilities due after more than one year Convertible bond 40d 1,504 Net assets 26,904 24,658 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 40b 772 738 Share premium account 40b 4,357 2,714 Capital redemption reserve 40b 115 115 Other reserves 40b 1,955 1,955 Share-based payment reserve 40b 1 1 Convertible debt reserve 40b 355 Pro t and loss account 40b 19,704 18,780 Total shareholders funds equity 26,904 24,658 The financial statements of Anglo American plc, registered number 03564138, were approved by the Board of directors on 14 February 2013 and signed on its behalf by: Cynthia Carroll Ren Mdori Chief Executive Finance Director 188 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements 40.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE PARENT COMPANY continued b Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders funds Share Capital Share-based Pro t Called-up premium redemption Other payment Convertible and loss 1 2 US$ million share capital account reserve reserves reserve debt reserve account Total Balance at 1 January 2011 738 2,713 115 1,955 6 355 12,650 18,532 Pro t for the financial year 6,520 6,520 3 Dividends paid 561 561 Issue of treasury shares under employee share schemes 18 18 Share-based payments 11 Capital contribution to Group undertakings 147 147 Shares issued on conversion of bond 11 Transfer between share-based payment reserve and pro t and loss account 6 6 Balance at 1 January 2012 738 2,714 115 1,955 1 355 18,780 24,658 Pro t for the financial year 1,152 1,152 3 Dividends paid 599 599 Issue of treasury shares under employee share schemes 24 24 Share-based payments 11 Capital contribution to Group undertakings 161 161 Shares issued on conversion of bond 34 1,643 355 185 1,507 Transfer between share-based payment reserve and pro t and loss account 1 1 Balance at 31 December 2012 772 4,357 115 1,955 1 19,704 26,904 1 At 31 December 2012 other reserves of $1,955 million 2011: $1,955 million were not distributable under the Companies Act 2006.
2 At 31 December 2012 $2,685 million 2011: $2,685 million of the Company pro t and loss account of $19,704 million 2011: $18,780 million was not distributable under the Companies Act 2006.
3 Dividends paid relate only to shareholders on the United Kingdom principal register excluding dividends waived by Greenwood Nominees Limited as nominees for Butter eld Trust Guernsey Limited, the trustee for the Anglo American employee share scheme.
Dividends paid to shareholders on the Johannesburg branch register are distributed by a South African subsidiary in accordance with the terms of the Dividend Access Share Provisions of Anglo American plcs Articles of Association.
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31December 2012 of 53 US cents per share, see note 12.
The audit fee in respect of the parent company was $7,792 2011: $7,156.
Fees payable to Deloitte for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed because they are included within the consolidated disclosure in note 3. c Fixed asset investments Investment in subsidiaries US$ million 2012 2011 Cost At 1 January 13,374 13,232 1 Capital contributions 147 140 Additions 2,776 2 Capital reduction 823 Transfer to subsidiary 3,096 At 31 December 12,378 13,374 Provisions for impairment At 1 January 328 328 Impairment charge 9 Transfer to subsidiary 320 At 31 December 17 328 Net book value 12,361 13,046 1 This amount is net of $14 million 2011: $7 million of intra-group recharges.
During 2012 Anglo Coal Holdings Limited undertook a capital reduction and repayment of share premium to Anglo American plc to the value of $823 million.
This resulted in a $9 million impairment of the remaining investment in Anglo Coal Holdings Limited.
During 2012 the Company transferred its holding in Anglo American Finance UK Limited to another subsidiary, Anglo American Services UK Limited, inexchange for shares in Anglo American Services UK Limited.
This additional investment in Anglo American Services UK Limited was recognised at thenet carrying value of the Companys previous investment in Anglo American Finance UK Limited.
d Convertible bond On 23 March 2012 Anglo American plc gave notice that it had exercised its right to redeem its $1.7 billion of 4% senior convertible bonds the Bonds on22May 2012 the optional redemption date.
On 13 April 2012 following the announcement of the recommended 2011 full year dividend, and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Bonds, the conversion price was adjusted from 18.36 to18.02.
Of the $1,700 million Bonds issued, $1,678 million were converted to equity prior to the optional redemption date, including $1 million converted in 2011, andthe remaining $22 million were redeemed by the Group.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 189 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 40.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE PARENT COMPANY continued e Accounting policies: Anglo American plc, the Company The Anglo American plc the Company balance sheet and related notes have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP and in accordance with UK company law.
The financial information has been prepared on a historical cost basis as modi ed by the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period.
Actual results may differ from those estimated.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the pro t and loss account of the Company is not presented as part of these financial statements.
Thepro t after tax for the year of the Company amounted to $1,152 million 2011: $6,520 million.
Signi cant accounting policies Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full on all timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, subject to the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Share-based payments The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share-based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested at 1 January 2005.
The Company makes equity settled share-based payments to the directors, which are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
For those share schemes with market vesting conditions, the fair value is determined using a Monte Carlo model at the grant date.
The fair value of share options issued with non-market vesting conditions has been calculated using a Black Scholes model.
For all other share awards, the fair value is determined by reference to the market value of the share at the grant date.
For all share schemes with non-market vesting conditions, the likelihood of vesting has been taken into account when determining the associated charge.
Vesting assumptions are reviewed during each reporting period to ensure they re ect current expectations.
The Company also makes equity settled share-based payments to certain employees of certain subsidiary undertakings.
Equity settled share-based payments that are made to employees of the Companys subsidiaries are treated as increases in equity over the vesting period of the award, with a corresponding increase in the Companys investments in subsidiaries, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Any payments received from subsidiaries are applied to reduce the related increases in investments in subsidiaries.
Accounting for share-based payments is the same as under IFRS 2 and details on the schemes and option pricing models relevant to the charge included in the Company financial statements are set out in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Investments Investments represent equity holdings in subsidiaries and are held at cost less provision for impairment.
Convertible debt Convertible bonds are classi ed as compound instruments, consisting of a liability and an equity component.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt and is recognised within borrowings and carried at amortised cost.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bond and the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Company, is included in equity.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible bonds where appropriate based on their relative carrying amounts at the date of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the effective interest rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability component of the instrument.
The difference between this amount and the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the liability.
190 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012
