Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES GLOSSARY MASS UNITS carat: carat is a unit of mass equal to 0.2g kt: kilotonne: metric system unit of mass equal to 1,000 metric tonnes Moz: million troy ounces a kilogram is equal to 32.1507 ounces: a troy ounce is equal to 31.1035 grams Mt: million tonnes, metric system unit of mass equal to 1,000 kilotonnes MTIS: Mineable Tonnage In-Situ: quoted in million tonnes mtpa: million tonnes per annum Tonnes: metric system unit of mass equal to 1,000 kilograms GRADE UNITS expressed on a moisture-free basis ASCu: Acid soluble copper % Au: Gold g t cpht: carats per hundred metric tonnes cpm: carats per square metre CSN: Crucible Swell Number CSN is rounded to the nearest 0.5 index CuEq: Copper equivalent based on long term metal prices taking into consideration the recovery of Copper, Gold and Molybdenum % CV: Calori c Value CV is rounded to the nearest 10 kcal kg ICu: Insoluble copper, total copper less acid soluble copper % kcal kg: kilocalories per kilogram g t: grams per tonne k: Thousand carats M: Million carats TCu: Total Copper % 4E PGE: The sum of Platinum, Palladium, Rhodium and Gold grades in grammes per tonne g t 3E PGE: The sum of Platinum, Palladium and Gold grades in grammes per tonne g t % Cu: weight percent Copper % Fe: weight percent Iron % Mn: weight percent Manganese % Mo: weight percent Molybdenum % Ni: weight percent Nickel % Nb O : weight percent Niobium pentoxide 2 5 % P O : weight percent Phosphorus pentoxide 2 5 MINING TERMINOLOGY MM: Marine Mining Mining diamonds deposited on the continental shelf using mining vessels equipped with specialised underwater mining tools such as suction drills and crawlers.
OC: Open Cut A surface mining method performed on orebodies with shallow-dipping tabular geometries.
OP: Open Pit A surface mining method in which both ore and waste are removed during the excavation of a pit.
The pit geometry is related to the orebody shape, but tends to have a conical form, closing with depth.
UG: Underground A class of subsurface mining methods, where the ore is accessed either through a vertical shaft or decline.
Ore and waste are moved within subsurface excavations, which may be located on several different elevations.
The nature of the underground excavations is dependent on the geometry and size of the mineralisation.
PROCESSING TERMINOLOGY Dump Leach: A process similar to Heap Leaching, but usually applied to lower grade material.
Rather than constructing a heap of material with a controlled grain size, the material grain sizes are as mined, similar to the situation found within a waste rock dump.
This material is then irrigated with a leach solution that dissolves the valuable minerals, allowing recovery from the drained leach solution.
Flotation: A process for concentrating minerals based on their surface properties.
Finely ground mineral is slurried with water and speci c reagents that increase the water repellent nature of the valuable mineral and agitated with air.
The water repellent mineral grains cling to froth bubbles that concentrate the mineral at the top of the otation cell, from where it is mechanically removed.
Heap Leach: A process in which mineral-bearing rock is crushed and built into a designed heap.
The heap is irrigated with a leach solution that dissolves the desirable mineral and carries it into a drain system from which solution is pumped and the mineral elements of interest are recovered.
Vat Leach: A process whereby crushed rock containing valuable minerals is placed within vats.
The vats are lled with a leach solution and the valuable mineral s dissolve.
The leach solution is pumped to a recovery circuit and the vats are drained and emptied of the spent ore and recharged.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 229 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES GLOSSARY RESOURCE TYPES Aeolian: Diamond deposits created and enriched during transport of sediment through wind action aeolian processes resulting in the formation of wind blown dunes, ripples and sand sheets within which localised enrichment of diamonds may occur.
Banded Iron Formation: A chemical sedimentary rock consisting of silica and iron oxide.
The rock texture is characteristically laminated or banded.
Beaches: Diamond deposits enriched through marine processes and preserved along the marine shoreline within a series of fossil terraces.
Canga: An iron rich rock formed where material weathered from an original iron ore deposit has been cemented by iron minerals.
Carbonatite Complex: A group of overlapping igneous intrusions of alkaline rocks including magmatic carbonate svite rock.
These complexes are frequently host to phosphate, niobium and rare-earth element deposits.
Colluvium: Loose, unconsolidated material that accumulates above the weathering iron ore bodies.
fide ation: Diamond deposits enriched through wind driven removal of light particles resulting in concentration of diamonds.
Ferruginous Laterite: An especially iron-rich laterite.
Fluvial Placer: Diamond deposits formed and preserved within fossil sand and gravel terraces located adjacent to contemporary uvial river systems.
Fresh Rock: Mineable material that has not been signi cantly modi ed by surface weathering processes.
Hematite: An iron oxide mineral with the chemical formula Fe O.
2 3 Itabirite Friable Compact : Itabirite is a banded quartz hematite schist, very similar to banded iron formation in appearance and composition.
Friable Itabirite is extensively weathered leading to disaggregation of the individual mineral grains comprising the rock.
Compact Itabirite, previously known as Hard Itabirite, is the unweathered equivalent.
Kimberlite: A potassic ultrabasic volcanic rock, emplaced as either pipes, dykes or sills, which sometimes contain diamonds.
Laterite: A claylike soil horizon rich in iron and aluminium oxides that formed by weathering of igneous rocks under tropical conditions.
Magnetite: An iron oxide mineral with the chemical formula Fe O.
3 4 Main Sulphide Zone MSZ : The Main Sulphide Zone is the principal host of Platinum Group Metals within the Great Dyke of Zimbabwe.
The Main Sulphide Zone is a tabular zone of sulphide-bearing rock within the uppermost P1 Pyroxenite.
Marine: Submerged diamond deposits enriched through uvial river, beach and marine reworking processes.
Merensky Reef MR : One of the three major Platinum Group Metals bearing units within the Bushveld Complex.
The Merensky Reef is located within the Upper Critical Zone of the Bushveld Complex and ranges in width from 0.8m to 4m.
The Merensky Reef occurs at the interface between the Merensky Pyroxenite and the underlying anorthosite to norite.
The Merensky Reef is characterised by the occurrence of one or more narrow chromitite stringers and frequently includes a coarse-grained pegmatoidal pyroxenite.
Oxide: Oxide ores are those found within close proximity to surface and whose mineralogy is dominated by oxidised species, including oxides and sulphates.
Frequently, silicate minerals have broken down partially or completely to clay-rich species.
Platreef PR : The Platreef is only present within the Northern Limb of the Bushveld Complex, in the vicinity of Polokwane, South Africa.
The Platreef is a heterogenous unit dominated by felspathic pyroxenite, but including serpentinised pyroxenites and xenoliths of footwall rock.
The Platreef dips steeply to the west and ranges in thickness between 60m and 200m.
Platinum Group Metal mineralisation occurs disseminated within the Platreef and in frequent association with base-metal sulphides.
Pocket Beach: Diamond deposits formed due to interactions of ocean longshore currents with speci c shoreline topographic features that facilitate the concentration of diamonds.
Porphyry Copper : Large copper deposits hosted by intermediate felsic rocks.
These deposits form close to large-scale subduction zones.
Saprolite: Clay-rich rock formed by decomposition of pre-existing rocks within a surface weathering environment.
Stockpile: Stockpiles resources comprise material that is mined together with the principal ore, but for economic or technical reasons is not processed.
This material is stockpiled in preparation for processing when economic or technical conditions are more favourable.
Sulphide: Sulphide ores contain sulphide minerals that have not been subjected to surface oxidation.
Tailings: Material left over after the process of separating the valuable fraction of the mineralised material from the uneconomic fraction gangue of the run-of-mine.
In some cases tailings can be re-treated to extract by-products.
UG2 Reef UG2 : The UG2 Reef is located between 20m and 400m below the Merensky Reef and is the second chromitite unit within the Upper Group.
The UG2 is typically a massive chromitite unit ranging in thickness from 0.6m to 1.2m.
The hangingwall of the UG2 is a felspathic pyroxenite unit that may include several narrow chromitite stringers.
The footwall of the UG2 is a coarse-grained pegmatoidal pyroxenite.
COAL PRODUCTS Metallurgical Coking: High-, mediumor low-volatile semi-soft, soft or hard coking coal primarily for blending and use in the steel industry: quality measured asCrucible Swell Number CSN.
Metallurgical Other: Semi-soft, soft, hard, semi-hard or anthracite coal, other than Coking Coal, such as pulverized coal injection PCI or other general metallurgical coal for the export or domestic market with a wider range of properties than Coking Coal: quality measured by calori c value CV.
Thermal Export: Lowto high-volatile thermal coal primarily for export in the use of power generation: quality measured by calori c value CV.
Thermal Domestic: Lowto high-volatile thermal coal primarily for domestic consumption for power generation: quality measured by calori c value CV.
Synfuel: Coal speci cally for the domestic production of synthetic fuel and chemicals: quality measured by calori c value CV.
230 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012
