56 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2012 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED If there is an indication that any previously recognised impairment losses no longer exist or have decreased, a reversal of the loss is made if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amounts since the last impairment loss was recognised.
The carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount only up to the carrying amount that would have resulted, net of depreciation or amortisation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior periods.
The reversal is recognised in the income statement unless the asset is carried at revalued amount.
The reversal of an impairment loss on a revalued asset is recognised in other comprehensive income and increases the revaluation surplus for that asset.
However, to the extent that an impairment loss on the same revalued asset was previously recognised in the income statement, the reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
The depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying value, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
There is no reversal of impairment losses relating to goodwill.
Acquired brands are reviewed for impairment on a portfolio basis.
Leases Leases are classied as finance leases if the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
The cost of assets held under finance leases is included within property, plant and equipment and depreciation is charged in accordance with the accounting policy for each class of asset concerned.
The corresponding capital obligations under these leases are shown as liabilities.
The finance charge element of rentals is charged to the income statement and classied within finance costs as incurred.
Rental costs under operating leases, including lease incentives, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Similarly, income receivable under operating leases is credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Raw materials are valued on a first in, first out basis, with the exception of hops which are valued at average cost.
Finished goods and work in progress include direct materials, labour and a proportion of attributable overheads.
Assets held for sale Assets, typically properties and related xtures and ttings, are categorised as held for sale when the value of the asset will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than continuing use.
This condition is met when the sale is highly probable, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition and is being actively marketed.
In addition, the Group must be committed to the sale and the completion should be expected to occur within one year from the date of classication.
Assets held for sale are valued at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated.
Financial instruments The Group classies its financial assets in one of the following two categories: at fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables.
The Group classies its financial liabilities in one of the following two categories: at fair value through profit or loss and other financial liabilities.
The classication depends on the purpose for which the financial instruments were acquired.
Management determines the classication of the Groups financial instruments at initial recognition.
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives are categorised as financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss unless they are designated as part of a hedge relationship.
The Group holds no other financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than 12 months from the balance sheet date.
These are classied as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade receivables, other receivables, trade loans and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Other financial liabilities Non-derivative financial liabilities are classied as other financial liabilities.
The Groups other financial liabilities comprise borrowings, trade payables and other payables.
Other financial liabilities are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash ows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
The Group assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired at each balance sheet date.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
Derivative financial instruments The only derivative financial instruments that the Group enters into are interest rate swaps.
The purpose of these transactions is to manage the interest rate risk arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within exceptional finance income or costs.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives which are not designated as part of a hedging relationship are presented in the income statement within exceptional finance income or costs in the period in which they arise.
The fair value of a hedging derivative is classied as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The fair values of derivatives which are not designated as part of a hedging relationship are classied as current assets or liabilities.
Accrued interest is recognised separately in current assets or liabilities as appropriate.
At the inception of a hedging transaction, the Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking the hedging transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash ows of hedged items.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement within exceptional finance income or costs.
Amounts that have been recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of cash ow hedges are reclassied from equity to profit and loss as a reclassication adjustment in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast cash ow affects profit or loss.
Trade receivables and other receivables Trade receivables and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables and other receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade or other receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the estimated future cash ows.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within other net operating charges.
When a trade or other receivable is uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account for trade or other receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against other net operating charges in the income statement.
