Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 Board and committee meeting attendance The Company considers that diversity in the boardroom is essential to good business and our appointment processes continue to We have established committees of the Board to deal with specic issues under the Code, each with its own Terms of Reference which ensure that all appointments are made on merit and that the Board represents the best interests of shareholders.
are regularly reviewed and updated.
The following table shows each Directors attendance throughout the year: Commitment Name Board Nomination Audit Remuneration significant commitments of the Directors held outside of the Company are disclosed prior to appointment and on an ongoing basis where Andrew Andrea 10 10 1 there are any changes.
Actual and potential conicts of interest are Nick Backhouse 6 6 1 1 2 2 regularly reviewed.
The Articles of Association allow the Board to Rosalind Cuschieri 9 10 3 3 2 3 2 2 2 authorise potential conicts of interest and to impose any limits or Alistair Darby 9 9 3 conditions it sees t. All of our Directors are required to allocate Miles Emley 4 41 1 1 11 1 sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities Ralph Findlay 10 10 3 3 effectively and this is reviewed as part of the annual evaluation process.
Neil Goulden 10 10 3 3 3 3 2 2 Robin Hodgson 9 10 3 3 2 3 2 2 The Chairman is a director of Ragleth Limited, the controlling Robin Rowland 10 10 1 1 2 2 shareholder of Anglia Maltings Holdings Limited and a supplier to David Thompson 10 10 3 3 the Company.
All contracts are concluded on ordinary commercial terms without the Chairman being present in contract negotiations 1 Nick Backhouse was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2012. or in the event of any consideration of these by the Board.
The 2 Alistair Darby resigned from the Board on 10 September 2012.
3 Miles Emley retired from the Board on 27 January 2012.
Chairman has no controlling interest in Ragleth Limited and consequently the transactions between the Company and Ragleth Limited are not Related Party Transactions as dened by B.
Effectiveness International Financial Reporting Standards.
Board composition As at the date of this report, our Board consists of nine Directors.
In Training and development addition to the Chairman, David Thompson, there are five NonThe Chairman takes on the responsibility for ensuring that Directors executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
Last year, we continually update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the identied the need for a further nancially qualied Non-executive Company.
This is specically considered in the annual evaluation Director following Miles Emleys proposed retirement.
Where necessary, the Company provides resources to the external agency Blackwood Group who in turn identied a meet development requirements for individual Directors.
suitable shortlist of candidates for the Nomination Committees consideration.
Miles Emley was a member of the Board until his All Directors receive a tailored induction programme on joining retirement at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 27 January the Board.
2012 and Nick Backhouse was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2012.
Nicks strong financial and managerial background During the period, the Board held meetings at sites other than at further contributes to the balance of skills, experience, Head Ofce in Wolverhampton, visited a number of its managed independence and knowledge of the Board.
pubs and met with local management to further its understanding of operational matters.
Individually, the Non-executive Directors Alistair Darby resigned from the Board on 10 September 2012 to spent time with senior managers visiting managed and tenanted take up the role of Chief Executive at Mitchells & Butlers plc.
There are regular opportunities for the Directors to meet with senior management in the pubs and breweries to maintain and Peter Dalzell was appointed to the Board on 3 October 2012 as an deepen their understanding of the business.
Information and support We consider all of our Non-executive Directors to be independent.
The Chairman agrees the agenda for each meeting in conjunction with Notwithstanding Lord Hodgsons tenure on the Board, the Board the CEO and Company Secretary.
Board and committee members are has satisfied itself that Lord Hodgson continues to be independent supplied with briengs on substantive issues in advance of meetings in his character and judgement.
The following chart portrays the and there is a regular timetable of matters for consideration during the balance of the Board as at the date of this report: period.
Board papers are circulated at least seven days prior to each Board or committee meeting to ensure that Directors have sufficient Balance of Executive and Non-executive Directors time to review them before the meeting.
Regular reports cover the Companys financial position, risk management and regulatory 11% compliance.
Updates on activities across each operating division and performance against targets are reported to the Board through the senior managers in a monthly summary of key business operations.
33% The Company Secretary advises the Board, through the Chairman, on 56% all governance matters.
All Directors have access to her advice and Chairman services.
If necessary, Directors may seek independent professional Executive Directors advice at the Companys expense in the performance of their duties.
Non-executive Directors 34 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report continued effectiveness of the Boards procedures and working practices.
In Evaluation The Code recommends that an evaluation of the effectiveness of addition, each Director considered their own effectiveness and any training requirements in conjunction with the Chairman.
The Board the Board and its committees is conducted annually and that this is of the opinion, and the Chairman has confirmed, that following process is externally facilitated at least every third year.
The formal performance evaluations, each Director continues to make evaluation process shall be externally facilitated next year, having an effective and valuable contribution and demonstrates last been carried out this way in 2010 11. commitment to his or her role.
This year, the Chairman led an evaluation of the Boards The Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent performance, its committees and individual Directors.
The Director, met without the Chairman to appraise his performance.
evaluation process involved written submissions to, and face-toface meetings with, the Chairman.
The evaluation focused on the performance of the Board throughout the past year, including the Election and re-election following areas: the composition of the Board and its succession Shareholders will consider the election of Nick Backhouse and Peter Dalzell at the AGM and they will be subject to annual plans: the content, style of information provided to and conduct of Board meetings: and the composition and effectiveness of the re-election thereafter.
All other Directors offer themselves for re-election at each AGM.
Details of each Director serving on the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The findings were reported to, and reviewed by, the Board and, where required, Board at the date of this report are set out on pages 26 and 27 and shall be detailed in the notes accompanying the Notice of issues were acted upon in order to further enhance the Meeting for the AGM.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35 Nomination Committee MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder The Nomination Committee continues to review, as a priority, the long-term succession plans for Non-executive Directors and the ongoing structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees.
This is highlighted with the appointment of Nick Backhouse following Miles Emleys retirement from the Board.
David Thompson Chairman of the Nomination Committee Membership Responsibilities David Thompson Chairman t Ensure the Board and its committees have the right balance of skills, Nick Backhouse from 1 September 2012 knowledge and experience.
Rosalind Cuschieri t To plan for the orderly succession of Directors to the Board and other Miles Emley until 27 January 2012 senior managers.
Ralph Findlay t To identify and nominate suitable candidates for Executive and NonNeil Goulden executive Director vacancies having regard to, amongst other factors, Lord Hodgson the benets of diversity, including gender diversity.
Robin Rowland from 1 September 2012 Attendees: Terms of Reference: Other Executive Directors, senior management and external Full Terms of Reference of the committee can be found in the Investors advisers may be invited to attend meetings.
section of the Companys website.
Activities The Nomination Committee met three times during the period.
Matters considered by the Committee included Board succession planning and the effectiveness of the Committee, which was reviewed as part of the wider Board evaluation process.
The Committee is satisfied that it continues to perform its duties in accordance with its Terms of Reference.
The Committee also considered the membership of the Board and each of its committees, subsequently leading to the appointment of Nick Backhouse to the Audit Committee, Nick Backhouse and Robin Rowland to the Nomination Committee and Peter Dalzell to the Board of Directors.
The Committee actively continues the long-term succession planning process for Non-executive Directors to ensure the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees continues to be effective, thus ensuring appropriate levels of corporate governance and best practice.
