60 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2012 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Key assumptions and significant judgements IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The Groups key assumptions and significant judgements are in respect of property, plant and equipment, impairment, retirement benets, financial instruments, property lease provisions, share-based payments and exceptional items.
Details of these assumptions and judgements are set out in the relevant accounting policy and detailed note to the financial statements as set out below: Property, plant and equipment t Valuation of properties see accounting policy.
t Assets useful lives and residual values see accounting policy.
Impairment t Assumptions made in the value in use calculation, in particular the pre-tax discount rate applied to cash ow projections and the growth rate used to extrapolate projected cash ows beyond one year budgets notes 10 and 11.
Retirement benefits t Actuarial assumptions in respect of the dened benefit pension scheme, which include discount rates, rates of increase in pensionable salaries, rates of increase in pensions, ination rates, expected returns on scheme assets and life expectancies note 25.
Financial instruments t Valuation of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market note 20.
Property lease provisions t Assumptions made in the discounted cash ow calculation, in particular market rents, vacant periods and discount rates see accounting policy.
Share-based payments t Inputs to the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which include dividend yield, expected volatilities and risk free interest rates note 26.
Exceptional items t Determination of items to be classed as exceptional see accounting policy.
SEGMENT REPORTING For segment reporting purposes the Group is considered to have four distinguishable operating segments as follows: Segment Revenue Managed Pubs Food and drink sales, accommodation and gaming machine income Tenanted and Franchised Food and drink sales, rent from licensed properties and gaming machine income Brewing Drink sales and third party brewing and packaging Group Services N A In the 2011 financial statements, Managed Pubs was referred to as Marstons Inns and Taverns, Tenanted and Franchised was referred to as Marstons Pub Company, Brewing was referred to as Marstons Beer Company and Group Services was referred to as Marstons Group Services.
There has been no change in the activities of each segment since the prior period: it is solely their names which have changed.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms length basis.
