56 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2012 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED If there is an indication that any previously recognised impairment losses no longer exist or have decreased, a reversal of the loss is made if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amounts since the last impairment loss was recognised.
The carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount only up to the carrying amount that would have resulted, net of depreciation or amortisation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior periods.
The reversal is recognised in the income statement unless the asset is carried at revalued amount.
The reversal of an impairment loss on a revalued asset is recognised in other comprehensive income and increases the revaluation surplus for that asset.
However, to the extent that an impairment loss on the same revalued asset was previously recognised in the income statement, the reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
The depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying value, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
There is no reversal of impairment losses relating to goodwill.
Acquired brands are reviewed for impairment on a portfolio basis.
Leases Leases are classied as finance leases if the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
The cost of assets held under finance leases is included within property, plant and equipment and depreciation is charged in accordance with the accounting policy for each class of asset concerned.
The corresponding capital obligations under these leases are shown as liabilities.
The finance charge element of rentals is charged to the income statement and classied within finance costs as incurred.
Rental costs under operating leases, including lease incentives, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Similarly, income receivable under operating leases is credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Raw materials are valued on a first in, first out basis, with the exception of hops which are valued at average cost.
Finished goods and work in progress include direct materials, labour and a proportion of attributable overheads.
Assets held for sale Assets, typically properties and related xtures and ttings, are categorised as held for sale when the value of the asset will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than continuing use.
This condition is met when the sale is highly probable, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition and is being actively marketed.
In addition, the Group must be committed to the sale and the completion should be expected to occur within one year from the date of classication.
Assets held for sale are valued at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated.
Financial instruments The Group classies its financial assets in one of the following two categories: at fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables.
The Group classies its financial liabilities in one of the following two categories: at fair value through profit or loss and other financial liabilities.
The classication depends on the purpose for which the financial instruments were acquired.
Management determines the classication of the Groups financial instruments at initial recognition.
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives are categorised as financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss unless they are designated as part of a hedge relationship.
The Group holds no other financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than 12 months from the balance sheet date.
These are classied as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade receivables, other receivables, trade loans and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
