Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Current and deferred tax The current tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and is measured at the amount expected to be paid to or recovered from the tax authorities.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on all differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date, and which give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future.
Differences are dened as the differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the assets can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Provisions Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outow of economic benets will be required to settle the obligation.
When valuations of leasehold properties based on future estimated income streams give rise to a deficit as a result of onerous lease conditions they are recognised as provisions.
These provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditure expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the obligation.
The key assumptions used in the discounted cash ow calculation are the discount rate and the market rents and vacant periods of the properties.
Other contractual property costs are also recorded as provisions as appropriate.
Share-based payments The fair value of share-based remuneration at the date of grant is calculated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the award.
The charge to the income statement takes account of the estimated number of shares that will vest.
Non-vesting conditions are taken into account when determining the fair value of the Groups share-based payments, and all cancellations of share-based payments, whether by the Group or by employees, are accounted for in an identical manner with any costs unrecognised at the date of cancellation being immediately accelerated.
Own shares Own shares consist of treasury shares, shares held within a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and shares held within an Executive Share Option Plan ESOP, which are used for the granting of shares to applicable employees.
Own shares are recognised at cost as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Subsequent consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the sale proceeds and the original cost being taken to equity.
No income or expense is recognised in the performance statements on treasury share transactions.
Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board but unpaid at the period end are recognised in the financial statements when they have been approved by the shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Transactions and balance sheet items in a foreign currency Transactions in a foreign currency are translated to sterling using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Monetary receivables and payables are remeasured at closing day rates at each balance sheet date.
Exchange gains or losses that arise from such remeasurement and on settlement of the transaction are recognised in the income statement.
Translation differences for non-monetary assets valued at fair value through profit or loss are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Gains or losses on disposal of nonmonetary assets are recognised in the income statement.
