Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Research and development expenditure All expenditure on the research phase of an internal project is expensed as incurred.
Development costs are recognised as an intangible asset when the following conditions are met: t It is technically feasible to complete the intangible asset so that it will be available for use: t Management intends to complete the asset and use or sell it: t There is an ability to use or sell the asset: t It can be demonstrated how the asset will generate probable future economic benets: t Adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset are available: and t The expenditure attributable to the asset during its development can be reliably measured.
Other development expenditure that does not meet these criteria is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identiable net assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is not amortised but instead is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units that are consistent with the Groups operating segments.
Property, plant and equipment t Freehold and leasehold properties are initially stated at cost and subsequently at valuation.
Plant and machinery and xtures, ttings, tools and equipment are stated at cost.
t Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis to provide for the cost of the assets less residual value over their useful lives.
t Freehold and long leasehold buildings are depreciated to residual value over 50 years.
t Short leasehold properties are depreciated over the life of the lease.
t Plant and machinery and xtures, ttings, tools and equipment are depreciated over periods ranging from 3 to 15 years.
t Own labour and interest costs directly attributable to capital projects are capitalised.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
Properties are revalued by qualied valuers on a sufciently regular basis using open market value so that the carrying value of an asset does not differ signicantly from its fair value at the balance sheet date.
Substantially all of the Groups properties have been externally valued in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Red Book.
These valuations are performed directly by reference to observable prices in an active market or recent market transactions on arms length terms.
Internal valuations are performed on the same basis.
The estate is reviewed for indication of impairment at each reporting date, using a process focusing on areas of risk and business performance throughout the portfolio to identify any exposure.
Impairment losses are charged to the revaluation reserve to the extent that a previous gain has been recorded, and thereafter to the income statement.
Surpluses on revaluation are recognised in the revaluation reserve, except to the extent that they reverse previously charged impairment losses, in which case the reversal is recorded in the income statement.
Disposals of property, plant and equipment profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment represents net sale proceeds less the carrying value of the assets.
Any element of the revaluation reserve relating to the property disposed of is transferred to retained earnings at the date of sale.
Impairment If there are indications of impairment or reversal of impairment, an assessment is made of the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised where the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying value of assets, including goodwill.
The recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and fair market value less costs to sell.
