54 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2012 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the audited financial statements of Marstons PLC and all of its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of new subsidiary undertakings are included in the Group accounts from the date on which control transferred to the Group or, in the case of disposals, up to the effective date of disposal.
Transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
The Group has applied the purchase method in accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration paid and deferred.
Identiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The consolidated financial statements also incorporate the results of Marstons Issuer PLC, a company set up with the sole purpose of issuing debt secured on assets owned by the Group.
The Directors of Marstons PLC consider this company meets the denition of a special purpose entity under SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities and hence for the purpose of the consolidated financial statements it has been treated as a subsidiary undertaking.
Details of this company are provided in note 32.
Revenue and other operating income Revenue represents the value of goods principally drink and food and services principally accommodation, gaming machines and third party brewing and packaging supplied to customers, and rents receivable from licensed properties.
Revenue from drink, food, accommodation, brewing and packaging is recognised at the point at which the goods or services are provided.
Gaming machine income is recognised as earned.
Rental income is recognised in the period to which it relates.
Revenue is recorded net of discounts, intra group transactions, VAT and excise duty relating to the brewing and packaging of certain products.
Other operating income comprises mainly rents receivable from unlicensed properties, which is recognised in the period to which it relates.
Operating segments For segment reporting purposes the Group is considered to have four distinguishable operating segments, being Managed Pubs, Tenanted and Franchised, Brewing and Group Services.
This mirrors the Groups internal reporting structure, and reects the different risk proles to which the business is exposed.
An element of Group Services costs is allocated to each of the trading segments.
The operating segments set out in note 2 are consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
For the purposes of IFRS 8 the chief operating decision maker has been identied as the Executive Directors.
Acquired businesses are treated as separate reporting segments, where material, until they have been fully integrated with the Groups operating segments.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are dened as those items that, by virtue of their nature, size or expected frequency, warrant separate additional disclosure in the financial statements in order to fully understand the underlying performance of the Group.
As management of the freehold and leasehold property estate is an essential and significant area of the business, the threshold for classication of property related items as exceptional is higher than other items.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
Intangible assets arising on acquisition of subsidiaries are recognised separately from goodwill if the fair value of these assets can be identied separately and measured reliably.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the intangible asset.
Where the useful life of the asset is considered to be indefinite no annual amortisation is provided but the asset is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Impairment reviews are carried out more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may be impaired.
The useful lives of the Groups intangible assets are: Acquired brands indefinite Lease premiums Life of the lease Computer software 5 to 10 years Development costs 10 years Any impairment of carrying value is charged to the income statement.
