36 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report continued Risk management system C. Accountability There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Internal controls managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal control reviews the risks annually and senior management identify and and risk management.
The Executive Directors are responsible for regularly review the top risks with their management teams and the the implementation of internal control and risk management Corporate Risk Manager.
These reviews cover strategic, financial, systems, which are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
By their nature, such systems provide only a reasonable and not absolute defence against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches Managers are required to identify key internal controls for each of of the law.
the risks they are responsible for.
The identied risks are classied and recorded in the Groups risk register.
Control environment The key features of the internal control system are: The internal audit strategy takes into account the key business risks t A clearly dened management structure operating within a of the Group and provides assurance to the Audit Committee on framework of policies and procedures covering authority levels, the effectiveness of the internal control environment in mitigating the responsibilities and accountabilities: risks to an acceptable level.
The risk management programme t A detailed formal budgeting process for all Group activities, with provides vital information to ensure that the internal strategy the annual Group budget and projections for future years being provides sufficient coverage of the critical areas of internal control.
formally approved by the Board: t Established procedures for planning, approving and monitoring capital expenditure and major projects: t Board approval is needed for all major investment, divestment and strategic plans and programmes: t At each meeting the Board reviews financial and non-financial progress towards the Companys goals: and t An internal audit function that scrutinises internal controls and conducts audits on controls associated with key risks of the business, and which recommends improvements.
The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems, which is co-ordinated by the internal audit function.
The review this year confirmed that there is a clear link between the key risks of the business and the controls used to manage those risks.
Ownership of the controls by the managers within the business is well dened, and there are no significant weaknesses that require remedial actions to take place.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 Audit Committee MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder My own recent and relevant financial experience as Executive Chairman and Chief Executive of Gala Coral Group enables me to lead the Committee in its task of fullling its responsibilities.
Each member of the Committee, all Non-executive Directors, contributes their own financial experience to effectively assess the external and internal audits of the Company and the internal control and risk management systems.
In assessing the work of the external Auditors, the Committee is satisfied with the scope of their work, their effectiveness and fee proposal and recommends their re-appointment.
In line with best practice, it is our intention to run a formal, competitive tender process for our external audit in the next financial period.
This will enable the Committee to compare the quality and effectiveness of the services provided by the incumbent Auditors with those of other audit rms.
Neil Goulden Chairman of the Audit Committee Membership Responsibilities Neil Goulden Chairman t Reviewing the integrity of the Groups financial statements Nick Backhouse from 1 May 2012 including the annual and interim reports.
Rosalind Cuschieri t Reviewing the effectiveness of the internal controls and risk Miles Emley until 27 January 2012 management system.
Lord Hodgson t Reviewing the Groups systems for detecting fraud, preventing bribery and allowing employees to raise concerns in a safe and condential manner.
t Reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
t Overseeing the relationship with the external Auditors, specically reviewing and approving their fees, the terms of engagement and their objectivity and independence on an annual basis.
Attendees: Terms of Reference: Other individuals, such as the CEO, CFO, Corporate Risk Manager Full Terms of Reference of the committee can be found in the and external Auditors are usually invited to attend all or part of the Investors section of the Companys website.
The Corporate Risk Manager reports to each meeting and has the right to approach the Committee directly.
At least once a year, the external Auditors meet the Committee without any Executive Directors or Marstons employees being present.
