Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 59 Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large Company policy on Directors pay and bonuses and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports The Companys policy is to ensure that Directors are fairly rewarded with Regulations 2008.
It also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing regard to responsibilities undertaken, and considers comparable pay levels Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has in the United Kingdom, in Chile, and in the international mining industry.
applied the principles of good governance as set out in the Combined Code Corporate and individual performance is taken into account in setting the pay on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June level for the Chairman as an Executive Director, and this is reviewed on an 2008 the Combined Code relating to Directors remuneration.
annual basis to ensure it remains in line with companies of a similar nature, size and complexity.
Remuneration levels for Non-Executive Directors are During the year under review, the Company complied with the detailed code based on comparable levels for companies of a similar nature, size and provisions set out in Section B of the Combined Code except, as explained on complexity, and take into account specific responsibilities undertaken.
page 58, performance related pay measures did not apply to the Chairman, Remuneration includes fees paid for non-executive directorships of subsidiary who was the only Executive Director provision B.
1.1. companies and joint ventures within the Group.
The Board does not consider The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditors to report to the Companys it appropriate to make regular performance-related pay awards such as members on certain parts of this report and to state whether in their opinion bonuses to the only Executive Director, Mr. J-P Luksic, given his role as those parts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Chairman of the Board and his interest in the Companys shares both directly Act 2006.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for and as a member of the Luksic family.
The Group has paid Mr. RF Jara for unaudited and audited information.
advisory services to the Group.
The Board has taken these payments into account in determining his fees as a Non-Executive Director.
No Director currently receives pension contributions.
Unaudited information Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Directors fees Membership The fees payable to Non-Executive Directors in respect of Antofagasta plc The Remuneration Committee currently comprises Mr. GS Menndez were as follows: Chairman, Mr. CH Bailey and Mr. fide Yarur, all of whom are considered by 2009 2008 the Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
US$000 US$000 Base fee 100 100 Responsibilities Audit Committee chairman 20 20 The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are fully set out in its Audit Committee member 10 10 Terms of Reference which are available from the Companys registered office Remuneration Committee chairman 16 16 and may be viewed on the Companys website www.
Remuneration Committee member 10 10 The Committee is responsible for setting remuneration policy and for Nomination Committee chairman 10 10 reviewing the remuneration of any Executive Directors and, where appropriate, Nomination Committee member 4 4 it consults the Chairman, Mr. J-P Luksic.
The Committee used benchmarking These fee levels will be unchanged for 2010. data from various sources, but did not appoint external consultants to advise on Directors remuneration during the year.
The Remuneration Committee In addition to the above amounts, Non-Executive Directors also receive is also responsible for monitoring the level and structure of remuneration fees in their capacity as Non-Executive Directors of the principal operating of Group senior management and evaluating management performance.
subsidiary companies and joint ventures within the Group.
As some of these The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Board as a fees are set in Chilean pesos, the US dollar payments made in respect of whole.
No Director participates in the determination of his own remuneration.
such fees may vary depending on the applicable exchange rate from time to time.
These additional fees are included within the amounts attributable to the Non-Executive Directors within the table of Directors remuneration on page 61.
60 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Governance Remuneration Report Service contracts and letters of appointment The Directors had no interests in the shares of the Company during the year other than the interests in the table set out above.
No Director had any Mr. J-P Luksic has a contract for services with both the Antofagasta Railway material interest in any other contract with the Company or its subsidiary Company plc and Antofagasta Minerals S. A.
Both contracts for services can undertakings during the year other than in the ordinary course of business.
be terminated by either party on one months notice.
There is also a contract No changes took place in the interests of the Directors between 31 between Antofagasta Minerals S. A. and Asesoras Ramn F Jara Ltda for the December 2009 and the date of this report.
provision of advisory services by Mr. R F Jara which can also be terminated on one months notice.
The amounts payable under these contracts for services are denominated in Chilean pesos and as is typical for employment Performance graph contracts or contracts for services in Chile, are adjusted in line with Chilean The following graph shows the Companys performance compared to the inflation, and are also reviewed periodically in line with the Companys policy performance of the FTSE All Share Index over a five-year period, measured on Directors pay although no changes were made in 2009 as compared by total shareholder return as defined below.
The FTSE All Share Index has with previous years.
Amounts paid during 2008 and 2009 have been been selected as an appropriate benchmark as it is the most broadly based included in the table of Directors remuneration on page 61. index to which the Company belongs and which relates to the London Stock All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company, Exchange, the market where the Companys ordinary shares are traded.
for an initial period of three years from the date of their appointment, subject Total shareholder return is calculated to show a theoretical growth in the to reappointment at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
These letters value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that dividends are require the Non-Executive Directors to undertake that they will have sufficient reinvested to purchase additional shares at the closing price applicable on time to discharge their responsibilities.
The appointments may be terminated the ex-dividend date.
Total shareholder return for the FTSE All-Share Index by either party on one months notice.
The letters of appointment are is calculated by aggregating the returns of all individual constituents of the available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal FTSE at the end of the five-year period.
business hours and at the AGM for 15 minutes prior to and during the Total Shareholder Return meeting.
The service contracts and letters of appointment do not provide for Antofagasta plc vs FTSE All Share Index any compensation for loss of office beyond payments in lieu of notice, and 600% therefore the maximum amount payable upon termination of these contracts 500% is limited to one months payment.
400% 300% 200% Share options and long-term incentive schemes 100% No arrangements exist to enable Directors to acquire benefits through the 0% Jan 2005 Jan 2006 Jan 2007 Jan 2008 Jan 2009 Jan 2010 acquisition of shares in the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, Antofagasta plc FTSE All Shares Total Return Basis Index 1 January 2005 100 to benefit through profit-related pay or share option schemes or to participate in any long-term incentive schemes.
Total Shareholder Return represents share price growth plus dividends reinvested over the period Total Return Basis Index 1 January 2005 100 Source: Datastream Directors interests The Directors interests in the shares of the Company at the beginning and end of the year were as follows: Ordinary shares of 5p each 31 December 1 January 2009 2009 1 J-P Luksic 41,963,110 41,963,110 CH Bailey 32,000 32,000 1 Mr. J-P Luksics interest relates to shares held by Aureberg Establishment, an entity which he controls.
Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 61 Audited Information Directors remuneration The remuneration of the Directors in the year is set out below in US dollars.
Amounts paid in Chilean pesos have been translated at average rates for the relevant year, which are set out in Note 36 to the financial statements.
This amount is included in the amounts attributable to Mr. Luksic of US$3,116,000 2008 US$3,154,000.
The benefits expense represents the provision of car usage to Mr. J-P Luksic.
2 During 2009, remuneration of US$462,000 2008 US$467,000 for the provision of services by Mr. RF Jara was paid to Asesoras Ramn F Jara Ltda.
This amount is included in the amounts attributable to Mr. Jara of US$770,000 2008 US$767,000.
3 Mr. JW Ambrus resigned from the Board on 14 October 2009, and the amounts shown above for 2009 represent the fees payable up to this date.
4 Mr. PJ Adeane retired from the Board in 2006.
Following retirement, Mr. PJ Adeane has continued to serve the Board as a Senior Advisor under a contract for services at the rate of 10,000 per annum.
This contract can be terminated on one months notice.
Mr. Adeane was paid 10,000 approximately US$15,590 under this contract for services during 2009 2008 10,000 approximately US$18,400.
Approved on behalf of the Board GS Menndez Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 8 March 2010
