Remuneration report Introduction audited sections include directors share DLA Piper LLP and Lane Clark & Peacock In July 2006, shareholders approved options, long term incentive plan and share have provided other services to the two long term incentive schemes, the matching scheme awards, performance Company.
DLA Piper LLP provides general Mothercare 2006 Performance Share share plan and executive incentive plan legal advice and Lane Clark & Peacock Plan PSP and the Mothercare Executive awards including that set out in Appendix A provide pension advice to the group.
These two long term on pages 77 and 78, emoluments and Remuneration policy statement incentive schemes and the annual bonus compensation payments as set out in table Our remuneration policy is to provide scheme have been the cornerstone 1 A-C and pension arrangements set out in competitive remuneration packages that of the Companys incentive-based table 2 of Appendix A. will recruit, retain and motivate directors remuneration strategy for the group.
The remuneration committee and individuals of the required calibre The long term incentive schemes were Composition of the remuneration committee to meet the groups strategic objectives.
specifically designed to help drive a high The remuneration committee is comprised The objective is to ensure the policy is performance culture in the group and of the independent non-executive directors appropriate to the groups needs and align the interests of the executive and and the chairman of the Mothercare plc rewards executives directly for creating senior team with those of shareholders.
David Williams is chairman of shareholder value.
The committee monitors In the period since implementation the committee with Karren Brady, Bernard the groups compliance with the Combined at the 2006 Annual General Meeting, Cragg and Ian Peacock serving throughout Code provisions and institutional investor Mothercare total shareholder return the year.
Richard Rivers joined the committee guidelines for directors remuneration.
has out-performed the FTSE General upon his appointment on 17 July 2008.
Retailers Index by 66 per cent to 31 March The policy aims to balance appropriately 2009, and grown underlying profits before The committees principal duty is the the fixed and performance-related elements interest and tax by 91 per cent.
determination of the remuneration for the of remuneration.
The latter element is executive directors and approval of the achieved through an annual bonus scheme Whilst the remuneration committee pay and benefits of the members of the and longer term incentives.
The bonus plan believes the long term incentive plans executive committee.
It met five times during rewards primarily the achievement of group have been successful in incentivising the the year and each members attendance profit before tax, a measure which the delivery of the groups results, it feels the at these meetings is set out on page 33 remuneration committee and the board prevailing global economic climate in of the corporate governance report.
believes is a highly relevant measure of which the Company operates necessitates The committees detailed terms of reference annual performance for a retail business, a review of executive remuneration policy is available on the Mothercare website and personal strategic performance in 2009 to ensure it continues to support at www.
Longer term performance delivery of group strategy.
The committee remuneration is delivered through equitywill consult with major shareholders on Advisors to the remuneration committee based incentives including the EIP and PSP, any proposed changes in due course.
The committee retained the organisations which reward three-year relative total listed below to assist them in their work The remuneration report shareholder return TSR and profit before during the year.
The committee has also As in prior years, this report to shareholders tax PBT performance.
The remuneration consulted the group chief executive, group has been prepared in accordance with policy is structured such that variable, human resources director and group the Companies Act 1985, and the relevant performance-related remuneration potentially company secretary as appropriate.
regulations relating to directors remuneration, represents significantly more than half of No executive was present for discussions the requirements of the Listing Rules of total remuneration in the event of exceptional of their own remuneration.
the UK Listing Authority and the Combined performance and that variable pay rewards Person or Code the Code.
At the Annual General primarily long term performance.
organisation Services provided Meeting on 16 July 2009 shareholders will The committee normally reviews the be asked to approve this report.
Kepler Executive remuneration, executive directors remuneration annually, Associates remuneration benchmarking The relevant section of the Companies against a policy that positions base salaries Ltd and evaluation of share scheme Act 1985 and regulations require the at competitive levels.
Comparisons are performance criteria auditors to report on certain elements made to companies that are similar to the of this report and to state whether in Lane Clark Pensions advice group in sector focus, size and complexity.
their opinion these elements have been & Peacock The variable elements of the package are properly prepared in accordance with designed to attract high calibre individuals, DLA Piper Legal services principally in Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 motivate outstanding performance and LLP respect of employment contracts as amended by the Regulations.
The provide executive directors and the senior 34 management team with the opportunity Save As You Earn share option scheme, ended 28 March 2009 was 115 per cent to earn an overall upper quartile total which is open to all employees including of base salary 135 per cent for the CEO, remuneration package for top quartile executive directors but excluding nonalthough the maximum bonus would only performance.
Details of the individual executive directors, the group made no be payable on the delivery of exceptional executive directors remuneration are awards under any other long term incentive group financial and personal performance.
Ben Gordon and Neil Harrington received Performance graph The remuneration of the non-executive performance-related bonuses of 372,000 The performance graph below shows the directors comprises fixed annual fees.
2008: 950,000 and 139,900 2008: 311,549 groups TSR against the return achieved by Expenses incurred on group business are respectively for the year ended 28 March 2009 the FTSE250 index.
Mothercare plc entered reimbursed when claimed.
Non-executive 46 per cent of maximum for Ben Gordon the FTSE250 on 30 June 2008.
Prior to that director fees are reviewed periodically and and Neil Harrington.
date it was a constituent member of the FTSE set at levels to reflect the time, commitment Profit Share Scheme SmallCap Index.
The performance graph and responsibilities of the individual In addition to the annual bonus scheme, the also shows performance against the FTSE non-executive director.
The fees of the group operates a profit share scheme.
The graph shows non-executive directors are determined by group employees other than participants in the five financial years to 28 March 2009. the chairman and executive directors on the annual bonus scheme with at least six behalf of the board.
The non-executive The indices were chosen on the basis that months service are eligible to participate directors do not participate in the group Mothercare is a constituent of both the in this scheme.
pension, annual bonus plan or any long FTSE250 previously the FTSE Small Cap term incentive scheme.
The Performance Share Plan PSP and FTSE General Retailers indices.
Under the PSP, conditional awards of shares The groups performance against the The chairmans remuneration is determined of up to 100 per cent of salary in exceptional FTSE General Retailers Index determines by the remuneration committee without the circumstances, 200 per cent of salary may be the level of vesting of awards under the chairman present.
made to selected executives, as determined Executive Incentive Plan.
Salary by the remuneration committee, each year.
Total shareholder return Each executive directors salary is Conditional awards were made to a total of considered individually by the remuneration 40 executives through awards made in June 200 committee, taking account of individual and November 2008 as nil-cost options.
performance and potential: pay positioning Details of the awards to executive directors 150 relative to comparable roles at other are set out in Appendix A on page 77. retailers and companies of similar size: and Vesting of shares to an individual is 100 advice from the independent remuneration conditional upon the achievement of the consultants.
Base salary is the only element performance condition of three-year growth of remuneration used in determining 50 in group PBT per share PBT.
20 per cent of pensionable earnings under the Mothercare an award will vest if Mothercares cumulative executive pension scheme.
With the three-year PBT growth is 5 per cent p. a.
0 27-Mar-04 26-Mar-05 1-Apr-06 31-Mar-07 29-Mar-08 28-Mar-09 exception of increases in salary to reflect One hundred per cent of an award will vest market conditions or the assumption of Mothercare plc FTSE250 Index if Mothercares three-year PBT growth is at FTSE ASX General Retailers increased responsibilities, the group has least 15 per cent p. a. with straight line vesting determined to maintain existing salary levels Directors remuneration in between.
Dividends accrue and are for 2009 10 at 2008 09 levels.
Consequently, The executive directors fixed annual paid on shares that vest.
If the performance the salaries for Ben Gordon and Neil remuneration comprises a base salary, threshold of 5 per cent p. a. PBT growth is not Harrington remain at 600,000 and which is normally reviewed in April each met the award will lapse.
PBT was chosen as 265,400 respectively.
The variable elements the remuneration committee believes that PBT of remuneration are delivered through Annual bonus is a good measure of Mothercares financial an annual bonus scheme, the Executive The annual bonus scheme for executive performance: it is highly visible internally, Incentive Plan and Performance Share directors is based on the achievement and is regularly monitored and reported.
The Executive Incentive Plan and of group financial targets and the delivery In 2008, the committee considered the Performance Share Plan replaced the of stretching personal targets tied to key three-year performance targets on the PSP Long Term Incentive Plan, Share Matching business objectives.
Financial and personal for a new award to be significantly more Scheme and Executive Share Option targets are set annually by the remuneration stretching relative to previous PSP awards Scheme in 2006.
With the exception of the committee.
The maximum bonus for the year 35 given the backdrop of a strong decline in the Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Governance Remuneration report continued retail sector as a whole.
To be commensurate the average market capitalisation of the performance targets were achieved.
with delivering such performance, rather than group over the three-month period Executives were invited to invest up to 100 reduce the targets the committee decided to immediately prior to the start of the financial per cent of pre-tax basic salary in previous apply a one-off increase to the normal level year in which the grant date falls.
The bonus years into the Share Matching Scheme.
of PSP awards being made in 2008 only.
The to which the participant will be entitled will Executives investments were matched awards for Ben Gordon and Neil Harrington be a percentage of this surplus value figure.
on a 1:1 basis after three years, provided were 150.0 per cent and 112.5 per cent of The committee believes this relative TSR the executive remained in employment, salary respectively.
performance condition has, and continues retained the shares they purchased for three to provide, very strong alignment with In September 2008, the remuneration years and the performance targets set out shareholders long term interests, as well committee and the board approved an in Appendix A were achieved over a three as supporting the motivation and retention extension of the PSP to key executives in year period.
The performance targets and of a high performing management team.
the overseas markets in which it operates, level achieved for matching awards are the principally China, Hong Kong and India.
EIP awards were made in July 2006, June same as for the LTIP awards and are shown The nature of the securities laws in certain 2007 and June 2008.
Awards made to in Appendix A. countries makes it impractical for individuals executive directors are set out in EIP Table 1 The Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS to receive shares in the Company upon in Appendix A page 76.
As explained in The Mothercare plc 2000 Share Option Plan vesting of conditional awards as envisaged last years report, for EIP awards made in Following approval of the PSP, no options by the PSP scheme.
Consequently, the June 2007 only, if during the performance have been granted under the Mothercare scheme approved in September grants period ending June 2010, the annualised 2000 Share Option Plan to PSP participants conditional awards over notional shares pre-tax profit synergies from the during the year.
Options under this plan may in the Company.
These notional shares are combination of the Mothercare and Chelsea be exercised by participating executives if hedged within the employee trust such that Stores Holdings Limited businesses EPS growth over a three-year performance individual participants may receive a cash acquired in June 2007 were to be at least period equals or exceeds the growth in the award equivalent to the growth in value 12.0 million 50 per cent more than the Retail Prices Index by nine per cent.
If the of the notional shares under the award.
pre-tax synergies of 8.0 million identified performance criteria are not met over the In all other respects including maximum in the circular and prospectus, as issued performance period, options lapse.
award limits, performance conditions etc by the group dated 25 May 2007 then the the overseas scheme is equivalent to that percentage of Surplus Value in EIP Table 2 Details of historical option grants to executive operated for UK based executives.
directors are set out in Appendix A on page 77.
40 overseas executives below executive The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Shareholding guidelines committee level received conditional Share Matching Scheme SMS Executive directors are expected to build up awards in November 2008.
Following the introduction of the EIP and PSP, a shareholding equal to 100 per cent of their The Executive Incentive Plan EIP no further conditional awards under the LTIP basic salaries by retaining at least half of the Under the EIP, nine executives are eligible or SMS have been made to EIP or PSP post-tax gains made under any long term to receive a percentage of surplus value participants.
The final conditional awards incentive in Mothercare shares.
created over a three-year performance vested on 23 June 2008, further details are Service contracts period.
Surplus value created is defined as provided in Appendix A.
Executive directors the increase in market capitalisation plus net The LTIP Executive directors service contracts are equity cash flows to shareholders dividends The extent to which outstanding LTIP awards rolling contracts that require 12 months plus share buybacks less shares issued over vested during the year was dependent notice by either the Company or executive and above performance in line with the FTSE partly upon the groups TSR performance to terminate the contract.
All-Share General Retailers index Index.
relative to all general retailers in the FTSE If the groups TSR is equal to or less than the Ben Gordon commenced employment with Mid 250 and FTSE SmallCap indices, and increase in the Index, participants will not the group on 2 December 2002.
His service partly upon the achievement of EPS targets receive any value from the EIP.
If the groups agreement provides for liquidated as shown in the table in Appendix A, TSR performance exceeds the increase in damages on termination by the group for including actual performance achieved.
the Index, participants will be entitled to basic salary equivalent to the unexpired receive an element of the surplus value.
The SMS portion of the notice period and the fair In these circumstances, the committee will Under this scheme, executives who invested value of the benefits to which he may be calculate a surplus value figure being the in the groups shares and retained those entitled, including pension credits but not positive difference between the groups TSR shares for at least three years received bonus or long term incentives.
Neil Harrington 36 and the increase in the Index, multiplied by matching shares if the long term commenced employment with the group on 30 January 2006.
His service contract may which will be adjusted annually in line with 28 March 2009 2008: 13,151.
A separate be terminated upon 12 months notice.
In addition, given that there are trust, the Mothercare Employee Trust, no longer benefits for either the group held 3,903,732 shares on 28 March 2009 Non-executive directors or individual of maintaining FURBS 2008: 3,863,923.
Ian Peacock is entitled to three months arrangements, the group has closed the salary on termination of his employment The executive directors are technically existing FURBS arrangements.
Those contract dated 31 October 2002 by the deemed to have an interest in shares held directors and senior executives subject group.
Karren Brady, Bernard Cragg, by Mothercare Employees Share Trustee to the earnings cap and who participated Richard Rivers and David Williams have Limited and the Mothercare Employee Trust in the FURBS arrangements now receive service agreements with the group that as potential beneficiaries.
a cash salary supplement equivalent to may be terminated upon one months the former FURBS payment, for investment There have been no movements in directors notice.
Their service agreements were in an investment vehicle of their own choice.
interests, beneficial or non-beneficial, entered into on 24 July and 26 March 2003, Further pension detail is given in table 2 of between 28 March 2009 and 20 May 2009.
Approved by the board on 20 May 2009 External appointments and other For further details of the pension provision and signed on its behalf by: commitments of the directors within the group during the year, see the The other business commitments of the directors report on page 26. directors are set out within their biographical details on page 24.
An executive director For further details on the cost of pensions to may take one external appointment as a the group, including the statements required non-executive director, subject to the by IAS 19, see note 33. approval of the board.
The director may David Williams Emoluments and compensation payments retain any fees from such a role.
Ben Gordon Chairman, remuneration committee The emoluments including pension is a non-executive director of Britvic plc from contributions for executive directors for the whom he received a fee of 44,600. year ended 28 March 2009 and the salaries Pension arrangements paid to the management level below the Ben Gordon and Neil Harrington are board are set out in tables 1A and 1B of members of the Mothercare executive Appendix A on page 76. pension scheme.
Ben Gordons pension Beneficial interests of the directors accrues at the rate of one forty-fifth of The beneficial interests of the directors in final salary capped at 176,400 in 2008 09 the share capital of the group are set out for each year of pensionable service.
This table does not show The normal retirement age is 60 years, outstanding option or incentive awards.
increasing to 65 years for service accruing These are dealt with in the relevant section post 1 April 2007.
Contributions by Ben of this report.
Gordon are 7 per cent of pensionable Interest held at salary.
Neil Harrington participates in the Interest held at 29 March 2008 pension builder career average section of 28 March 2009 or appointment the Mothercare executive pension scheme.
number if later number Pension accrues at one forty-fifth of Ian Peacock 210,709 206,109 pensionable average salary subject Ben Gordon 421,949 406,949 to a notional earnings cap of 176,400 Karren Brady 16,738 14,063 in 2008 09.
The normal retirement age is Bernard Cragg 20,000 20,000 65 years.
Contributions by Neil Harrington Neil Harrington 22,839 20,500 are at 5 per cent of pensionable salary.
Richard Rivers 5,000 The committee regularly reviews the David Williams 30,375 25,375 financial impact to the Company of pension provisions for key executives.
In order to Ian Peacock and David Williams are control the cost of pensions, the group has shareholders and directors of Mothercare agreed with the trustees of the executive Employees Share Trustee Limited, which pension scheme the introduction of a held 13,151 Mothercare shares in trust on notional earnings cap of 176,400 in 2008 09 37 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Governance
