Directors Remuneration Report This report has been approved by the Board and the Remuneration Committee the Committee.
Shareholders will be invited to approve the report at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration Committee Composition of the Committee The members of the Committee who served during the year, all of whom were independent Directors, were: Roger Devlin Chairman Miranda Curtis Tim Score Role of the Committee The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: determine the fees of the Chairman: determine the remuneration and conditions of employment including any termination arrangements of the Executive Directors: approve the remuneration and conditions of employment of the Divisional Chief Executives and Company Secretary: review the remuneration and conditions of employment of the senior management team: and select and appoint any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
Advisors to the Committee The Committee has appointed independent remuneration consultants, Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS to advise on all aspects of senior executive remuneration.
HNBS has no other connection with the Group other than in the provision of advice on executive and employee remuneration.
In 2009 the Chief Operating Officer provided guidance to the Committee on remuneration packages for senior executives employed by the Group but not in respect of his own remuneration.
Activities of the Committee During the year the Committee considered the following items of business: Executive Directors and senior executives salary levels and 2008 annual bonus awards and deferral: annual bonus scheme terms for 2009: review of the Non-Executives fees: the total shareholder return comparator group used in the Long Term Incentive Plans performance condition: 2009 award levels under the Companys share plans: recruitment package for the new Chief Executive: testing of performance conditions and vesting of Long Term Incentive Plan awards granted in 2006: and Long Term Incentive Plan entitlements upon redundancy.
The Committees recommendations in 2009 were all accepted and implemented by the Board.
Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board as a whole following an annual review.
The review takes account of fees paid for similar positions in the market, the time commitment required from the Director estimated to be 100 days per year for the Chairman and 20 days per year for the other Non-Executive Directors and any additional responsibilities undertaken, such as acting as Chairman to one of the Board Committees or Senior Independent Director.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to receive pension entitlements or bonuses and may not participate in share option schemes.
For 2009 the basic fee for acting as a Non-Executive Director was 44,000 a year.
A fee of 7,000 is paid for chairing a Committee.
An additional fee of 5,000 is paid to the Senior Independent Director.
42 National Express Group PLC Remuneration policy for Executive Directors Remuneration policy is based on the following broad principles set by the Committee: to provide a competitive remuneration package to attract and retain quality individuals: to align remuneration to drive the overall objectives of the business: to align the interests of management with the interests of shareholders: and to provide the foundation for overall reward and remuneration beyond the specific roles falling within the direct remit of the Remuneration Committee.
The objective of this policy is aligned with the recommendation of the Combined Code on Directors remuneration.
That is to provide a level of remuneration to attract, retain and motivate Directors of the quality required to run the Company successfully, but avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
A significant proportion of Executive Directors remuneration should be structured so as to link rewards to corporate and individual performance.
In implementing its policy, the Committee gives full consideration to the principles set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance with regard to Directors remuneration.
Remuneration policy is reviewed on an ongoing basis against the Committees broad principles and in light of emerging best practice in corporate governance.
For example, while not directly relevant to National Express, the Committee has also noted the key conclusions of the Financial Services Authority Code and Walker Review during the year and has concluded that National Express continues to take into account the principles of sound risk management when setting pay.
As a result, the current remuneration structure is considered to remain appropriate in light of the good practice suggestions of the FSA.
The Committee is to review further its current remuneration policy in light of any amendments to the 2008 Combined Code that may arise from the current consultation in relation to its current recommendations.
The Group operates a leadership and development programme which includes an appraisal system for Directors and senior management.
The appraisal system uses balanced scorecards to assess performance against financial, customer, operational and people objectives.
The results of the annual appraisal system are taken into consideration when setting remuneration levels.
Performance related versus xed remuneration % Long Term Incentive Plan value of vested shares taken as at date of grant Target Performance related bonus Basic salary excluding pension contributions and benets Maximum 20 40 60 80 100 0 Fixed versus variable remuneration A substantial proportion of the Executive Directors pay is performance related.
The chart above shows the balance between fixed and performance related pay at target and maximum performance levels based on the elements of National Expresss remuneration package set out below.
Maximum performance assumes achievement of maximum bonus and full vesting of shares under the LTIP.
National Express Group PLC 43 Directors Remuneration Report continued Elements of remuneration Summary of the components of the Executive Directors remuneration.
Objective Performance period Policy Basic salary To position at a competitive level for Annually Individual pay levels using comparable midsimilar roles within comparable markets market data for guidance are determined by reference to the individuals performance, experience in post and potential Performance related bonus To incentivise delivery 1 year Bonus payments are based of performance objectives on the achievement of specified corporate objectives Pension To provide competitive benefits in line Ongoing The policy is to provide market competitive with market practice and to act retirement benefits or, depending on as a retention mechanism and reward individual circumstances, to provide a cash long service alternative with which the executive may make his own arrangements.
Only basic salary is pensionable Long Term Incentive Plan To drive performance, aid retention and 3 years Half of any award is subject to EPS growth.
align the interests of Executive Directors The remaining half is subject to the relative with shareholders total shareholder return TSR of the Company compared against a bespoke peer group.
TSR operated as the sole performance measure in 2009 with the above policy to apply again from 2010 Other benefits To provide competitive benefits in line Ongoing Executive Directors receive a fully with market practice expensed car, private health and long-term sickness insurance.
A cash alternative may be provided according to individual circumstances i Basic salary The salary of individual Executive Directors is usually reviewed at 1 January each year.
Account is taken of the performance of the individual concerned, together with any change in responsibilities that may have occurred and the rates for similar roles in two comparator groups of companies.
In addition, due consideration is given to proposed pay increases and remuneration elsewhere in the Group.
The comparator groups for the 2009 financial year were a group of transport sector companies with a median market capitalisation of 1,734 million and a group of companies from the FTSE Mid 250 drawn from all sectors with a median market capitalisation of 1,529 million which reflected that of National Express at the time of completing the review.
For 2010 the comparator groups will be based on similar groups of transport leisure and general sector companies drawn from the FTSE 250.
In 2009 and 2010 there was no increase in the basic salary of the Executive Directors other than an adjustment to the salary of Jez Maiden to reflect additional responsibilities taken up on the resignation of Richard Bowker.
ii Performance related bonus The maximum potential bonus payable to Executive Directors in 2009 was 75% of salary.
70% of the bonus payable was based on financial targets and 30% based on non-financial targets.
The non-financial targets encompass customer, operational excellence and people objectives.
Except at the discretion of the Committee, no bonus is payable unless the Groups normalised profit budget is achieved.
The Committee will, in exceptional circumstances, have the ability to scale back to zero bonus awards based on safety performance if it feels that there are sufficiently extenuating circumstances.
The definition of normalised profit is set out in the Glossary on page 138.
In relation to the proportion of the bonus determined by performance against the Group profit budget, Executive Directors receive 50% of the bonus upon achieving budget and 100% upon achieving a stretch target which, for 2009, was 107% of budget.
In terms of actual performance against the Group profit budget set for the financial year under review, the result was less than the budgeted profit before tax target.
The targets set in relation to other financial and non-financial performance are tailored to the responsibilities of each individual Executive Director and, in aggregate, are considered to be similarly challenging to the range of financial targets set.
Bonus entitlements, in respect of both financial and non-financial performance of the Executive Directors who were in post for the whole of 2009, were in the range of 11.25% to 30% of salary as at 31 December 2009, as set out on page 50.
As detailed in last years Directors Remuneration Report, the Committee considered it appropriate for bonuses awarded in respect of the 2008 calendar year to be deferred for a period of one year and will vest, subject to the terms of the award and the relevant Directors continuing employment on 10 March 2010.
Half of each award was a cash deferred bonus conditional upon the continued employment of the relevant Director.
The other half of the award was converted into deferred forfeitable ordinary shares of the Company.
Both the cash deferred bonus and the deferred forfeitable ordinary shares were awarded under the terms of The National Express Group Executive Deferred Bonus Plan which was adopted by the Board of the Company on 10 March 2009.
44 National Express Group PLC Elements of remuneration continued ii Performance related bonus continued The National Express Group Executive Deferred Bonus Plan Executive Deferred Bonus Plan Share award Deferred balance at Date of Cash shares Adjustment for 31 December Vesting 1,3 4 award award award rights Issue 2009 date 2 Richard Bowker resigned 10 July 2009 10.03.09 116,675 57,745 53,403 Jez Maiden 10.03.09 16,000 7,918 7,323 15,241 10.03.10 Ray OToole 10.03.09 115,178 57,004 52,717 109,721 10.03.10 Notes 1 One half of the award was converted into deferred shares of the Company at the average closing price for the Companys shares during the five business days from 3 March to 9 March 2009 at 213.90 pence per ordinary share of the Company.
2 Richard Bowkers deferred cash award and deferred shares award lapsed on his leaving date.
3 A dividend was paid on the shares held in respect of the interim dividend for 2009.
4 The number of Deferred Shares awarded was adjusted to incorporate the effect of the Rights Issue, effective 15 December 2009 by multiplying the original award by the HMRC approved factor of 1.9248.
The adjustment process is standard practice and results in the impact of the Rights Issue being neutral on outstanding awards where the Rights Issue is undertaken at a discount as was the case at National Express and ensures consistency of treatment in value terms between shareholders and award holders.
The principal terms of awards under the Executive Deferred Bonus Plan EDBP are summarised below: awards under the Plan may be cash awards, conditional awards or forfeitable shares awards: awards normally vest one year from the date of grant, subject to the relevant Directors continued employment with the Company: the Committee may decide that Participants shall be entitled to receive a benefit determined by reference to the value of the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the Grant date and the date of vesting: the awards will normally lapse on cessation of employment save in certain compassionate good leaver circumstances eg death and disability : and in the event of a variation of the share capital the Committee may make such adjustments to the awards as it considers appropriate.
In line with the Association of British Insurers Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee ensures that the incentive structure for Executive Directors and senior management will not raise environmental, social or governance ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
More generally, with regard to the overall remuneration structure, there is no restriction on the Committee which prevents it from taking into account corporate governance on ESG matters and the Committee takes due account of issues of general operational risk when structuring incentives.
With regard to quantum, operating with a lower maximum bonus opportunity at National Express in 2009 was felt an appropriate response to the economic and trading conditions prevalent at the start of 2009.
However, in light of i improved trading prospects at the Group ii the fact that a maximum bonus opportunity of 100% of salary remains normal practice among FTSE 250 companies and among our benchmark peer groups and, therefore, is important for the purposes of providing a market competitive incentive opportunity and iii the 2010 annual bonus plan will be subject to both deferral and clawback provisions, the Committee is comfortable with reverting back to its normal policy of setting the annual bonus maximum at 100% of salary.
For 2010 bonus payments will be based on a similar structure but with the maximum potential bonus opportunity reverting to 100% of salary which was the Companys policy prior to 2009.
However, in recognition of the higher bonus potential, the Committee considered it appropriate to toughen the targets at the top end of the performance range so that a maximum bonus can only be earned if a budget is outperformed by a significantly higher premium than was the case in 2009.
Furthermore, 25% of any bonus earned will be the subject of a mandatory deferral into the Companys shares for a period of one year.
Since the deferred shares will be awarded under the EDBP, receipt of the deferred shares will be subject to continued service and the same good leaver provisions and other terms as noted above.
The 2010 bonus will also operate with an additional clawback feature that would require the deferred shares to be forfeited or repaid should it be necessary for the Company to restate materially its 2010 results within a two year period following the deferred bonus being awarded.
The proportion of the bonus that would be the subject to a clawback would depend on the extent to which the original bonus payment turned out to be false following the publication of corrected results.
With regard to safety performance, the Committee will, in exceptional circumstances, continue to have the ability to scale back to zero bonus awards based on safety performance if it feels that there are sufficiently extenuating circumstances.
National Express Group PLC 45 Directors Remuneration Report continued Elements of remuneration continued iii Pensions Under the terms of their service agreements, Executive Directors are either entitled to become members of one of the Group pension schemes or to receive payment of a fixed percentage of salary.
Ray OToole was a member of The National Express Group Staff Pension Plan the Plan until 7 April 2006.
This Plan is an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved defined benefit scheme.
The benefits from this Plan are subject to HMRC limits.
Spouses pensions are provided in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
Life assurance of four times basic annual salary is provided for the Executive Directors.
From 7 April 2006, Ray OToole has received a salary supplement of 44% in lieu of pension contributions.
Dean Finch and Jez Maiden are not members of a company pension scheme.
Dean Finch receives a 35% salary supplement and Jez Maiden receives a 25% salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
iv Incentive scheme and share options a Long term incentive arrangements The National Express Group Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2005 Annual General Meeting and operates as the Companys sole type of executive long-term incentive arrangement.
The LTIP consists of annual awards of performance and matching shares.
Details of the plan are provided below.
Performance shares Executive Directors are eligible to receive a conditional award of shares up to an equivalent of 1x their annual basic salary.
The vesting of the award is conditional on meeting the performance conditions set out below.
Matching shares Executive Directors are also eligible to receive awards of matching shares that are based on a personal investment in National Express Group PLC shares funded either through a personal investment for example using an annual bonus award or through pledging of shares not already allocated to the LTIP.
The maximum matching award is restricted to 100% of basic salary and matching awards are made on the basis of 200 matching shares being awarded for each 60 National Express shares pledged or purchased from net of tax income.
Matching share awards are also conditional on the performance conditions set out below.
If a participant ceases employment before vesting for a compassionate reason eg redundancy, retirement, death in service, sale of business out of the Companys Group his awards will ordinarily vest.
The extent of vesting will be determined by applying the relevant performance conditions to the date of cessation and scaling back the number of shares awarded on a pro rata basis rounded up to the next complete six month period from the date of grant unless the Committee determines that it would be inappropriate to apply a pro rata reduction.
Awards lapse on cessation of employment for any other reason.
Performance conditions There are normally two distinct performance conditions applying to awards made.
First, the performance condition attached to one-half of an award Part A is based on the Companys normalised diluted earnings per share EPS growth performance in excess of inflation over a fixed three-year period three financial years commencing with the financial year in which the award is made.
The performance condition attached to the other half of an award Part B is based on the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance over the same fixed three-year period relative to the TSR performance of a comparator group of up to around 20 transport companies taken predominantly from the FTSE Industrial Transportation and FTSE Travel & Leisure sectors.
The companies comprising the comparator group have been chosen on the basis of their comparability to National Express Group PLC based on their size and scope of business operations.
There is no ability to retest either performance condition.
EPS and TSR have generally been chosen for the LTIP as the most appropriate measures of National Expresss long term performance since EPS is an important growth measure and driver and TSR improves shareholder alignment and is consistent with Company objectives of providing long-term returns to shareholders.
46 National Express Group PLC Elements of remuneration continued iv Incentive scheme and share options continued For awards made in 2007 and 2008 Parts A and B will vest to the extent that the performance conditions set out in the tables below are met: Average growth in the Companys normalised diluted EPS in excess of inflation CPI Percentage of Part A that vests Less than 3% 0% 3% 30% 6% 100% Between 3% and 6% 30%100% pro rata Normalised diluted earnings per share and CPI are as defined in the Glossary on page 138.
Rank of the Companys Total Shareholder Return against a bespoke comparator group of transport companies as noted above Percentage of Part B that vests Below median 0% Median 30% 20th percentile 100% Between median and 20th percentile 30% and 100% pro rata Prior to making an award in 2009, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the EPS and TSR targets and based on the recommendation of Hewitt New Bridge Street that was put forward in light of prevailing economic conditions that made it difficult to set a robust range of EPS targets at National Express, awards were made subject to a single TSR performance condition with an earnings underpin.
It was felt appropriate to apply relative TSR as the primary performance condition to the 2009 awards given the uncertainty of future earnings levels due to the continuing discussions with the Department for Transport on the East Coast rail franchise.
In addition, given the intention of the Board to undertake a Rights Issue, TSR was felt to be a particularly important measure to ensure alignment of interest between the Executive Directors and shareholders.
LTIP awards in 2010 will revert to using both EPS and TSR performance conditions.
Awards made in September 2009 will vest, subject to the earnings underpin to the extent that the performance condition set out in the table below is met: Rank of the Companys Total Shareholder Return against a bespoke comparator group of transport companies as noted above Percentage that vests Below median 0% Median 30% 20th percentile 100% Between median and 20th percentile 30% and 100% pro rata It is currently intended that the awards to be made in 2010 will revert back to an equal blend of EPS and TSR.
The TSR condition will operate on a broadly consistent basis with the targets set in prior years as noted above with an appropriately weighted comparator group of transportation companies.
The range of EPS targets will be set having due regard to analysts forecasts and the Companys strategic plan with the range set being fully disclosed in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
National Express Group PLC 47 Directors Remuneration Report continued Elements of remuneration continued The following table sets out the percentage of each extant award that would have vested if the performance conditions had been tested as at 31 December 2009 without making any allowance for pro rata reduction for any period of less than three years.
Indicative percentage of LTIP awards vesting based on performance to 31 December 2009 1 1 Year of award TSR element EPS element Total max 100% 2007 0% 0% 0% 2008 0% 0% 0% 2009 96.1% 96.1% 1 For 2007 and 2008 TSR applies to 50% of the award and EPS applies to 50% of the award.
For 2009 TSR applies to 100% of the award.
To determine vesting of LTIP awards, the Committee retains independent consultants to test the proportion of an award vesting under the relative TSR test and then reviews the conclusion of this analysis before shares formally vest.
With regard to the EPS targets, vesting is based on the Companys audited results with liaison, as required, between the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
b Savings Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave Scheme The Company operates an HMRC approved Sharesave Scheme which is open to all UK employees, including the Executive Directors, who have completed at least six months service at the date of grant.
The options are exercisable after three years at a discount of 10% to the market value of the shares at the time of grant.
Performance criteria The Committee believes that budgeted profit and or EPS growth as performance measures for the discretionary bonus scheme and long-term incentives, in most normal circumstances, provide a transparent and accessible method of gauging the performance of the Company.
The Company calculates performance against these performance measures by reference to the profit or earnings per share figures reported in the Companys audited accounts, which the Company believes to be the most transparent and objective measure of the Companys profit or EPS.
The Committee also monitors the Groups TSR against the FTSE All-Share Travel & Leisure Index as a broad measure of the Companys performance.
TSR measured against a more tailored group of comparators has been used by the Company as a primary performance measure for awards made to Executive Directors under the LTIP as outlined above.
As noted earlier, it is currently intended that the performance targets that will apply to awards granted in 2010 will again be an equal blend of EPS and TSR.
If it were considered appropriate to make any fundamental changes to the performance targets in 2010, it is anticipated that this would be accompanied by a consultation with major shareholders.
The following graphs show a comparison of National Express Group PLC total cumulative shareholder return against that achieved by the FTSE All-Share Travel & Leisure Index and the FTSE 250 Index.
These indices have been selected because the Company is a constituent of each index with the former including many members of the LTIP TSR peer group and the Committee, therefore, feels that these are the most appropriate indices to represent the Companys relative performance.
Total shareholder return versus Total shareholder return versus FTSE All-Share Travel & Leisure Index FTSE 250 Index Source: Thomson Financial Source: Thomson Financial 200 200 150 150 100 100 50 50 0 0 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09 National Express Group PLC FTSE All-Share Travel & Leisure Index National Express Group PLC FTSE 250 Index The graph above looks at the value, by the end of 2009, of 100 invested in The graph above looks at the value, by the end of 2009, of 100 invested in National Express Group PLC on 31 December 2004 compared with 100 invested National Express Group PLC on 31 December 2004 compared with the value in the FTSE All-Share Travel & Leisure Index.
The other points plotted are the of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
The other points plotted are the values values at intervening financial year-ends.
48 National Express Group PLC Directors service contracts, notice periods and termination payments Executive Directors The contract dates and notice periods for the Executive Directors are as follows: Notice period Notice period Director Contract date from the Company from the Director Richard Bowker resigned as a Director 10 July 2009 22 May 2006 12 months 12 months Ray OToole 11 September 2003 12 months 6 months Jez Maiden 17 November 2008 12 months 12 months Dean Finch appointed as a Director 15 February 2010 16 December 2009 12 months 6 months The service contracts of all the Executive Directors, which are rolling contracts, contain a provision, exercisable at the option of the Company, to pay an amount on early termination of employment equal to one years salary or, in the case of Dean Finch, one years salary, salary supplement in lieu of pension and car allowance.
The Company will use the payment in lieu of notice provisions when the speed, certainty and protection of restrictive covenants afforded by such clauses are thought to be in the best interests of the Company and the circumstances surrounding the departure of the relevant Director justify their use.
The service contract of Ray OToole has a further provision that, where the Company initiates a termination, other than for cause, within six months of a change of control taking place the Company will exercise its option to make a payment in lieu of notice of an amount equal to the salary and benefits that the Director would have received during the notice period.
The service contract of Dean Finch contains a provision that, if there is a change of control within 24 months of his commencement date and directly or indirectly in connection with it the Company initiates a termination, other than for cause, or Dean Finch serves notice of termination on the Company on account of provable constructive dismissal, then the period of notice required from the Company will increase from 12 to 24 months.
The Company waives any requirement for the Directors duty to mitigate his losses in respect of such termination in these circumstances.
This clause, while not reflective of the Companys policy, was considered necessary by the Committee to facilitate the appointment of Dean Finch given that the Company had been formally approached in relation to a takeover during the year under review.
In any event the Committees policy is that payments to Directors on termination should reflect the circumstances that prevail at the time, also taking account of the Directors duty to mitigate if appropriate, which, in the case of Richard Bowker applied even where the Company elected to make a payment in lieu of notice.
In relation to his departure from National Express, Richard Bowker did not receive any payments in lieu of notice or any other payment upon resigning his position.
The Committee has considered the best practice expectations set out in the 2008 ABI NAPF joint statement on executive contracts and severance and noted the update to the NAPF policy that was published in January 2009.
This guidance, and any future revisions, will be taken into account before agreeing any future service contracts with the Committee committed to continuously reviewing its policies in the best interests of shareholders.
Executive Directors external appointments Under the terms of their service agreements, Board approval is required before any external appointment may be accepted by an Executive Director.
The Executive Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such services.
Details of fees received by Executive Directors in 2009 are as follows: Jez Maiden 36,000 Yule Catto & Co plc National Express Group PLC 49 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors service contracts, notice periods and termination payments continued Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company but are appointed for an initial three-year term.
NonExecutive Directors are typically expected to serve for two three-year terms, although their appointment can be terminated either by them or the Company on one months written notice.
It is open to the Company to invite a Non-Executive to serve for a further period after the expiry of two three-year terms.
All Directors are required to stand at least once every three years for re-appointment by shareholders.
The original appointment dates of the Non-Executive Directors are: Jorge Cosmen 1 December 2005 Miranda Curtis 1 June 2008 John Devaney 2 April 2009 Roger Devlin 1 October 2007 Sir Andrew Foster 1 August 2004 Tim Score 21 February 2005 Senior executive remuneration The Remuneration Committee reviews and notes the salaries of senior executives within the Group.
The salaries of this group of employees by band are as follows: Salary band Number of executives 000 2009 201410 5 151200 11 101150 38 75100 54 Information subject to audit: Directors remuneration Directors emoluments Benefits in Performance lieu of Total related Total 1 2 Salary fees Benefits pension 2009 bonus 2008 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Richard Bowker resigned 10 July 2009 353 24 88 465 931 Ray OToole 400 45 23 176 644 828 Jez Maiden 383 120 22 96 621 90 Adam Walker resigned 26 March 2008 97 Non-Executive Directors John Devaney Chairman 3 appointed 2 April 2009 315 315 4 Tim Score Senior Independent Director 76 76 58 Jorge Cosmen Deputy Chairman 44 44 44 Miranda Curtis 51 51 30 5 Roger Devlin 53 53 48 Sir Andrew Foster 44 44 44 David Ross resigned 9 December 2008 183 Barry Gibson resigned 31 May 2008 23 1 Benefits in kind include a company car, fuel, life assurance and health insurance.
Relocation expenses of 107,000 were also incurred in respect of Jez Maiden.
2 Total remuneration excludes Company pension contributions which are shown below.
3 John Devaney received a temporary additional fee for the period during which he held the role of Executive Chairman.
4 Tim Score received additional fees for the period during which he held the role of Interim Chairman which required significantly greater time commitment than the role of Senior Independent Director with his temporary revised fee set accordingly.
5 Roger Devlin received additional fees for the period during which he held the role of Senior Independent Director.
50 National Express Group PLC Pensions Pension benefits earned by Directors in the year to 31 December 2009 from both the approved and unapproved plans were: Movement Accrued in transfer Accrued Increase benefit Transfer Transfer value during benefit at in period Transfer value at 31 value at value at 31 period less 1 January net of of increase December 1 January December Directors 2009 indexation in period 2009 2009 2009 contributions 1 Age NRA 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 2 Ray OToole 54 60 36.4 38.2 643.4 842.6 199.2 1 Normal Retirement Age.
2 Ray OToole ceased to accrue pension benefits on 7 April 2006.
Directors shareholdings Directors interests and transactions The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors in office as at 31 December 2009 are shown below: Change from At 1 January 31 December At 2009 or on 2009 to 31 December appointment 25 February i 2009 if later 2010 Executive Directors Ray OToole 146,757 31,364 Jez Maiden 77,255 6,000 Non-Executive Directors Jorge Cosmen 92,591,971 28,530,165 John Devaney appointed 2 April 2009 66,666 Roger Devlin 20,961 6,275 Miranda Curtis Sir Andrew Foster 14,160 Tim Score The above table is not subject to audit.
i Shareholdings incorporate the impact of the Rights Issue effective from 15 December 2009.
For every three existing National Express Group PLC shares held on 24 November 2009, shareholders received the right to buy seven new National Express Group PLC shares at 105 pence per share.
Directors with existing shareholdings as at the Rights Issue record date took up their rights in full.
In order to align the interests of the Directors more closely with the shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has also determined that the Executive Directors should build up a share fund equal to at least one years salary over a period of five years.
Sharesave Share Option Awards At 31 Market price Date from During year At 1 January December Option at date of which Expiry 1 2 2009 2009 price exercise exercisable date Granted Adjusted Exercised Lapsed Ray OToole 312 288 600 479.01p 01.11.11 30.04.12 Notes 1, 2 The Sharesave options held at 31 December 2009 and the Sharesave option price incorporate the impact of the Rights Issue effective from 15 December 2009.
The Sharesave grant was subject to an adjustment to reflect the dilutive effect of the Rights Issue.
The number of options was multiplied by a factor of 1.9248 and the option price was multiplied by a factor of 0.5195.
The adjustment process is standard practice and results in the impact of the Rights Issue being neutral on outstanding awards where the Rights Issue is undertaken at a discount as was the case at National Express and ensures consistency of treatment in value terms between shareholders and option holders.
National Express Group PLC 51 Directors Remuneration Report continued Recruitment of Dean Finch One-Off share awards In relation to his appointment as Chief Executive Officer, the Committee has agreed to grant Dean Finch share awards under a one-off arrangement.
The Committee felt that the award is appropriate to provide compensation for share arrangements forfeited in the process of joining National Express Group PLC and, in doing so, assist with his recruitment and alignment with the interests of the Companys shareholders.
The awards have been structured, as far as practicable, to replicate the profile of the vested shares forfeited in the process of joining National Express Group PLC.
The one-off arrangement will be granted in accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2, under which the one-off arrangement will be granted, the principal terms of the proposed awards are summarised below.
The share award will comprise two parts, an award of 28,023 shares the First Award and an award of 18,281 shares the Second Award.
Each award will be structured as an award of forfeitable shares.
Subject to the terms of the awards, the First Award and Second Award will ordinarily vest on 1 April 2011 and 1 April 2012 respectively.
At the time of vesting the relevant shares subject to the awards will cease to be subject to a risk of forfeiture.
The awards will ordinarily lapse on cessation of employment save in certain good leaver circumstances which includes termination of employment by the Company other than for gross misconduct.
In the event of a takeover or winding up of the Company not being an internal corporate reorganisation the awards will vest early at such time and to such extent as considered appropriate by the Committee.
No amendments to the advantage of Dean Finch will be made to the material terms of the awards without shareholder approval other than any minor alteration to i benefit the administration of the awards ii take account of a change in legislation or iii obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange or regulatory treatment for Dean Finch or the Company.
The awards will not be transferable save on death or pensionable.
The awards may only be satisfied with market purchased shares comprised within the awards.
In connection with the awards a cash payment will also be made to Dean Finch of equal value to the prevailing market value of 32,177 ordinary shares in National Express Group PLC at the time the above one-off arrangement is granted.
This was also agreed at the time of recruitment in compensation for forfeited remuneration in relation to joining the Company.
LTIP awards In agreeing a recruitment package with Dean Finch, a key objective of the Committee was to accommodate, as far as practicable, a significant proportion of the compensation for awards forfeited under existing National Express Group PLC share plans so that awards would be performance related.
As a result, and to ensure that the incoming Chief Executive was fully aligned with the wider senior management team, it was agreed that separate awards of performance shares and matching shares would be granted under the LTIP.
These awards will each be equal in value to 500,000 at grant and comprise his sole LTIP awards in 2010.
The Matching Award will be granted on the basis of shares acquired from a cash payment of 254,250 that will be made in lieu of remuneration forfeited in joining National Express Group PLC.
Since both the performance and matching awards will be granted under the LTIP, they will be subject to the performance targets and terms of the LTIP detailed in the relevant section above.
The Committee believes the above package is in the interests of shareholders since i it assisted in the recruitment of the preferred candidate and ii it provides compensation for shares forfeited on joining the Company in National Express Group PLC shares as per the one-off arrangement detailed above in a manner that provides a tangible lock-in and iii agreeing with Dean Finch that the after tax value of the 254,250 payment made in lieu of lost entitlements at his former employer will be invested in the Companys shares for the purposes of receiving a matching share award will result in an immediate alignment between the new Chief Executive and the Companys shareholders.
Furthermore, participation in the LTIP performance share and matching share awards provides a consistency of approach with the most senior executives at National Express Group PLC.
Other remuneration For completeness, the new Chief Executives base salary is 500,000 and he will receive no other share awards in the current financial year other than those noted above.
Other elements of remuneration are as per the policy detailed above.
52 National Express Group PLC Conditional award of shares to Jez Maiden On 17 November 2008, Jez Maiden was granted a share award under a one-off arrangement in relation to his appointment as Group Finance Director.
The Committee felt that the award was appropriate to provide compensation for share arrangements forfeited in the process of joining National Express Group PLC in order to expedite his recruitment and ensure alignment of his interests with those of the Companys shareholders.
At At 31 Market price During year 1 January December Option at date of Date of 1 1 2009 Granted Adjusted Exercised Lapsed 2009 price exercise vesting Jez Maiden First Award 21,074 19,489 40,563 17.11.09 Second Award 21,075 19,490 40,565 17.11.10 Third Award 28,666 26,510 55,176 17.11.11 1 The number of shares subject to The First Award, the Second Award and the Third Award was adjusted to incorporate the effects of the Rights Issue, effective 15 December 2009 and multiplied by a factor of 1.9248.
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2 the principal terms of the awards are summarised below.
The award comprised three parts, an award over 21,074 shares the First Award, an award over 21,075 shares the Second Award and an award over 28,666 shares the Third Award.
Each award is structured as a conditional right to free shares, the terms of which were set after taking account of Jez Maidens forfeited awards which included performance and non-performance awards.
The First Award vested on 17 November 2009.
Subject to the terms of the awards and Jez Maidens continued employment, the Second Award will ordinarily vest on 17 November 2010.
Similarly, the Third Award will ordinarily vest on 17 November 2011 subject to the terms of the award and continued employment.
The extent of vesting of the Third Award is also dependent on the satisfaction of performance targets assessed over a three-year performance period.
The performance targets applying to the Third Award are identical to those set for the 2008 LTIP awards, details of which are set out above a mix of earnings per share and shareholder return targets.
The awards will ordinarily lapse on cessation of employment save in certain compassionate good leaver circumstances eg death and disability.
In such circumstances the extent to which the First and Second Awards may vest will be determined by the Committee.
In the case of the Third Award the extent of vesting will be dependent on the satisfaction of the performance criteria over the curtailed period and such time pro rata adjustments as the Committee considers appropriate.
In the event of a variation of the share capital, the Committee may make such adjustments to the awards as it considers appropriate.
No amendments to the advantage of Jez Maiden will be made to the material terms of the awards without shareholder approval other than any minor alteration to i benefit the administration of the awards ii take account of a change in legislation or iii obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange or regulatory treatment for Jez Maiden or the Company.
The Committee may vary the performance conditions applying to the Third Award if an event has occurred which causes it to consider that it would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, provided the Committee considers the varied conditions are fair and reasonable and not materially less challenging than the original condition would have been but for the event in question.
The awards are not transferable save on death or pensionable.
The awards may only be satisfied by market purchased shares excluding shares held in treasury.
A cash equivalent payment may be made in lieu of shares.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Awards Performance shares of 1x salary are awarded to Executive Directors as nil cost options under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
In addition 100 matching shares are awarded for every 30 investment shares pledged or invested by the Director under the share matching element of the LTIP.
Further details of the LTIP and the performance conditions that have applied to each award below are shown on page 46.
TSR performance had been such as to result in 41.6 % of that part of the performance and matching share awards that were subject to the TSR performance condition to vest and the EPS performance had been such as to result in 77.1% of that part of the performance and matching share awards that were subject to the EPS performance condition to vest.
2 LTIP awards were adjusted to reflect the dilutive effect of the Rights Issue effective 15 December 2009 by multiplying the numbers of options granted by the HMRC approved factor of 1.9248.
3 The expiry date of the exercise period for LTIP awards granted on 6 April 2006 was extended to 30 November 2009, in accordance with the LTIP rules to allow senior managers and Directors to exercise their vested awards after regulatory restrictions on share dealing had lifted in the run up to the Rights Issue announced on 11 November 2009.
In respect of the operation of the Long Term Incentive Plan the Company operates the National Express Group Employee Benefit Trust which currently holds 1,109,817 shares as at 25 February 2010.
The Register of Directors Interests maintained by the Company contains full details of the Directors holdings of shares and options over shares in the Company.
The aggregate value of the LTIPs which vested in the year was 92,021 2008: 999,421.
The midmarket price of the Companys ordinary shares at 31 December 2009 was 191.9 pence 2008: 494.75 pence and the range during the year ended 31 December 2009 was 554.5 pence to 151.75 pence.
By order of the Board Roger Devlin Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 February 2010 54 National Express Group PLC
