36 Annual Report and Accounts January 2009 25 Years Service Awards 25 Years Service Awards Billy Williamson Graham Bell Karen Brodie Michael Goulden Manufacturing Team Leader Technical Operator Operations Support Administrator Warehouse Operative Peter Waddell Robert Leckie Terry Briddick Head of Financial Planning Production Shift Manager Warehouse Manager Stepping up Leadership Development Training A. G. BARR p. l. c. continually invests in leadership development for a range of its employees.
The company is an approved centre with the Institute of Leadership and Management ILM to deliver the Level 3 Award in First Line Management.
11 managers are currently working towards this qualification as part of a 10 day programme.
The company also works with the Taylor Clarke Partnership, a Glasgow based organisational development consultancy, who deliver our Business Leadership Programme for middle and senior managers.
Taylor Clarke have delivered five programmes to date with 60 managers attending.
37 Xxxxxxxx Xxxxx Accounts January 2009 38 Directors Report 41 Statement on Corporate Governance 44 Directors Remuneration Report 51 Consolidated Income Statement Statements of Recognised Income and Expense 52 Balance Sheets 53 Cash Flow Statements 54 Accounting Policies 60 Notes to the Accounts 86 Independent Auditors Report 87 Review of Trading Results 38 Annual Report and Accounts January 2009 Accounts Directors Report The directors are pleased to present their report and the consolidated Directors interests financial statements of the company and its subsidiaries for the 53 The directors interests in ordinary shares of the company are shown weeks ended 31st January, 2009. within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 50.
No director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any group company.
Principal activities The group trades principally as a manufacturer, distributor and seller Directors indemnity insurance of soft drinks.
Qualifying third party indemnity insurance is in place for the benefit of all directors of the company.
Business review Political donations and political expenditure A detailed review of the groups activities and of future plans is contained within the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 3, the Neither the company nor any of its subsidiaries have made any political Business and Financial Review on pages 4 to 24 and the Corporate donations or incurred any political expenditure in the year.
& Social Responsibility report on pages 25 to 33.
Charitable donations The information contained in those sections fulfils the requirements of During the year the company entered into fundraising activities for the Business Review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act the Princes Trust.
Further details of the work are included within the 2006, and should be treated as forming part of this Directors report.
Corporate & Social Responsibility report on page 25.
Results and dividends The total of the companys direct donations for charitable purposes The groups profit after tax for the financial year attributable to equity cash donations to charity was 113,000.
Further donations of products shareholders amounted to 17.075m 2008: 16.838m.
were made to community programmes.
An interim dividend for the current year of 11.60p per ordinary share Land and buildings was paid on 24th October, 2008.
The directors are of the opinion that there is no significant difference between the market value and the book value of the groups land and The final proposed dividend of 30.40p will be posted on 4th June, buildings as at 31st January, 2009.
2009 if approved at the companys annual general meeting AGM on 26th May, 2009.
Research and development The group undertakes research and development activities to update The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under and expand its range of products in order to improve and develop new s230 of the Companies Act 1985 and have not presented an income and existing products.
Expenditure during the year on research and statement for the company.
None of the expenditure has been capitalised.
Directors The following were directors of the company during the financial year Employee involvement ended 31st January, 2009: Using regular briefing procedures, managers keep employees at all W. R. G. Barr levels informed about matters affecting the companys policy, progress R. A.
Twice yearly, the briefing includes a report on trading results.
J. D. Kemp In addition to this, a quarterly internal newsletter, The Quencher, I. F. Greenock retired 6th June, 2008 is distributed to all employees.
B. C. Short appointed 28th May, 2008 A.
A. Bibby retired 29th February, 2008 Consultation with employees or their representatives takes place twice A. L. Memmott appointed 1st March, 2008 a year so that employees views may be taken into account when the J. S. Espey company is making decisions that are likely to affect their interests.
R. G. Hanna All qualifying employees are entitled to join the Savings Related Share The companys Articles of Association the Articles give the directors Option Scheme, the Long Service Award Scheme, the All-Employee power to appoint and replace directors.
Under the terms of reference Share Ownership Plan and the Long-term Incentive Plan.
of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the board.
The Articles Employment of disabled persons require directors to retire and submit themselves for re-election at the first AGM following appointment and one-third of the directors for the time Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully being to retire at each AGM, not including those directors submitting considered bearing in mind the respective qualifications and abilities themselves for re-election at the first AGM following appointment.
In the event of employees becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment will The director retiring by rotation is R. A.
White, who, being eligible, continue.
The training, career development and promotion of a offers himself for re-election.
In accordance with article 38 of the disabled person is, as far as possible, identical to that of a person companys Articles, A.
B. C. Short and J. Warburton, who were appointed fortunate enough not to suffer from a disability.
to the board on 28th May, 2008 and 16th March, 2009 respectively, will both retire at the AGM and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Following the completion of his one year contract as a non-executive director, the re-appointment of J. S. Espey on 1st April, 2009 falls to be confirmed.
J. S. Espey has a one year contract from his date of re-appointment.
39 Directors Report Payment policy and practice Resolution 11, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution at the AGM on 26th May, 2009, will give the company authority to use The companys policy is to make payment in accordance with the its available cash resources to acquire up to 1,946,146 of its own shares terms agreed with suppliers when satisfied that the supplier has in the market for either cancellation or to hold them as treasury shares.
provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms The directors will only use this power after careful consideration, taking and conditions.
There is no standard which deals specifically with the into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment payment of suppliers.
opportunities, appropriate gearing levels, and the overall position of the company.
The directors will only purchase such shares after taking into At 31st January, 2009 the average number of days of payments account the effects on earnings per share and the benefits for shareholders.
outstanding for the group was 36 days.
At 31st January, 2009 Robert Barr Limited, as trustee of the Group Substantial interests in shareholdings Employee Benefit Trust, the Savings Related Benefit Trust and the As at 23rd March, 2009, the company had been notified under Long Service Award Trust, held 1.5% of the issued share capital of the Rule 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency company in trust for the benefit of the employees, executive directors, Rules of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares.
senior executives and managers of the group.
A dividend waiver is in A significant shareholding is defined as 3.00% by the Financial Services place in respect of the trustees holding.
Nature of The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the trustee.
Shares % holding holding The trustee may vote or abstain from voting the shares or accept or reject any offer relating to shares, in any way it sees fit, without incurring Caledonia Investments Plc 1,820,000 9.35 Direct any liability and without being required to give reasons for its decision.
Lindsell Train 1,533,731 7.78 Indirect Speirs & Jeffrey 1,035,908 5.32 Indirect Under the rules of the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan the Plan eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the company.
Relations with shareholders Details of the Plan are documented on page 45.
Plan shares are held The company has regular discussions with and briefings for analysts in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the and institutional shareholders.
The chief executive and finance director Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of normally meet with major shareholders twice annually and brief the next participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction board meeting on their discussions.
All shareholders, including private to the Trustees no vote is registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote investors, have an opportunity to participate in questions and answers on any unawarded shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at with the board on matters relating to the companys operation and 31st January, 2009 Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited held 1.3% of the performance at the annual general meeting.
issued share capital of the company.
Takeovers directive The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that The following provides the additional information required for may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
shareholders as a result of the implementation of the Takeovers Directive into UK Company law.
As disclosed in the Remuneration Report, under certain conditions the notice period for directors may increase from one year to two years in the As at 31st January, 2009 the companys issued share capital comprised event of a takeover of or by the company or a company reconstruction.
a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares.
Note 27 to the financial statements contains details of the ordinary share capital and The companys banking facilities may at the discretion of the lender this note should be treated as forming part of this report.
be repayable upon a change of control of the company.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every The Companys Articles may only be amended by a Special Resolution holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall at a general meeting of shareholders.
At the 2009 AGM a Special have one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by Resolution will be put to shareholders proposing amendments to the proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share companys existing Articles, as described in the Notice of Meeting.
The Notice of AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to Financial risk management be passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers The group manages its financial risk so as to minimise the adverse for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced fluctuations in the financial markets on the groups reported profitability at the AGM.
Specific policies for managing each of the groups main financial risk areas are detailed in the accounting policies on page 54.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the company other than: Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain directors, officers and employees of the company require the approval of the company to deal in the companys ordinary shares.
40 Annual Report and Accounts January 2009 Accounts Directors Report Statement of directors responsibilities in relation Directors statement pursuant to Disclosure to the Financial Statements and Transparency Rule 4.1.
12 The directors have chosen to prepare the Financial Statements for the Each of the directors confirm, to the best of their knowledge: group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards That the consolidated Financial Statements, which have been IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position IAS 1 requires that the Financial Statements present fairly for each and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included financial period the groups financial position, financial performance in the consolidation as a whole: and and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects That the Business Review on pages 29 to 33 includes a fair review of of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the the development and performance of the business and the position definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and Framework for the preparation and presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Contracts of significance There were no contracts of significance as defined by Listing Rule 9.8 Directors are also required to: subsisting during the financial year.
Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent Going concern Present information, which includes the accounting policies, The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and its future development, performance and position are set out in the understandable information Business Review on pages 29 to 33.
The financial position of the group, Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand in the Financial Review on pages 20 to 24. the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the groups financial position and financial performance.
After making the appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group overall have adequate The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial and, accordingly, consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern position of the group and to enable them to ensure that the Financial basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Statements comply with the Companies Acts.
Corporate governance They are also responsible for the system of internal controls, for The companys statement on Corporate Governance is included safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable in the Corporate Governance report on pages 41 to 43 of these steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors Post Balance Sheet events So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information The post balance sheet events are included in note 30 to the accounts.
of which the companys auditors are unaware.
Relevant information is defined as information needed by the companys auditors in connection Annual general meeting with preparing their audit report.
Details of the companys annual general meeting, convened for 11am Each director has taken all steps that ought to be taken by a director on 26th May, 2009, are set out in a separate circular which has been to make themselves aware of and to establish that the auditors are sent to all shareholders with this report.
aware of any relevant audit information.
On behalf of the board, A copy of the Financial Statements is placed on the companys website www.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
A. Barr Company Secretary Legislation in the U. K. governing the preparation and dissemination Westfield House of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
4 Mollins Road Cumbernauld G68 9HD 41 Statement on Corporate Governance The board On appointment to the board, directors are provided with a full, formal and tailored programme of induction, to familiarise them with the groups A. G. BARR p. l. c. is led by a strong and experienced board which brings businesses: the risks and strategic challenges the group faces: and the a depth and diversity of expertise to the leadership of the company.
economic, competition, legal and regulatory environments in which the group operates.
A programme of strategic and other reviews, together The board comprises five executive directors and two non-executive with other training provided during the year, ensures that directors directors.
Both of the non-executive directors are considered to be continually update their skills: their knowledge and familiarity with the independent.
J. S. Espey is the senior non-executive director.
groups businesses: and their awareness of sector, risk, regulatory, legal, financial and other developments to enable them to fulfil effectively their Under the companys Articles of Association one third of the board role on the board and committees of the board.
is subject to retirement and re-election every year.
Details of directors remuneration and interests in shares of the company The company is committed to the principles of Corporate Governance are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 50. contained in the Combined Code the Code and each of the provisions of the Code has been reviewed and, where necessary, steps have been The board taken to ensure that the company is in compliance with all of those provisions as at the date of this Report.
The company has complied The board has 12 scheduled meetings, set annually in advance and throughout the year ended 31st January, 2009 with the Provisions of the determines the strategic direction of the group and reviews operating, Code of Best Practice set out in section 1 of the Code except in relation financial and risk performance.
There is a formal schedule of matters to the notice period of executive directors contracts.
reserved to the board which includes approval of the groups annual business plan: the groups strategy: acquisitions, disposals and capital The Code requires a maximum notice period of one year.
As disclosed expenditure projects above certain thresholds: all guarantees: treasury in the Directors Remuneration Report in the event of a takeover of policies: the Financial Statements: the company dividend policy: or by the company or a company reconstruction the notice period of transactions involving the issue or purchase of company shares: the executive directors reverts to two years in certain circumstances.
borrowing powers: appointments to the board: alterations to the memorandum and articles of association: legal actions brought by or Directors against the group above certain thresholds: and the scope of delegations to board committees, subsidiary boards and the management committee.
Brief biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 34 and 35.
The roles of chairman and chief executive are separate In advance of all board meetings the directors are supplied with detailed and there is a clear division of responsibilities between those roles.
and comprehensive papers covering the groups operating functions.
Members of the management team attend and make presentations The chairman leads the board and ensures the effective engagement as appropriate at meetings of the board.
The company secretary is and contribution of all non-executive and executive directors.
The chief responsible to the board for the timeliness and quality of information.
executive has responsibility for all group businesses and acts in Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the companys accordance with the authority delegated from the board.
expense in performance of their duties as directors.
None of the directors obtained independent professional advice in the period under review.
Responsibility for the development of policy and strategy and operational All directors have access to the advice and the services of the company management is delegated to the executive directors and a management secretary.
In addition to these formal roles, the non-executive directors committee, which consists of five senior managers.
have access to senior management of the business either by telephone or via involvement at informal meetings.
The chairman is pleased to confirm that, following formal performance evaluation of all the directors, all of the directors performances continue Attendance at board and committee meetings in year to be effective, and the directors offering themselves for re-election or to 31st January, 2009: election at the AGM continue to demonstrate commitment to the role Audit Remuneration Nomination of director.
Board Committee Committee Committee Maximum 12 Maximum 3 Maximum 6 Maximum 2 During the year, the chairman carried out a performance evaluation of the board, the board committees and each of the directors.
As in Executive previous years, this was an internal exercise led by the chairman of the W. R. G. Barr 12 6 2 board who conducted a detailed and comprehensive evaluation process R. A.
White 12 by a combination of written survey questionnaires followed by a series J. D. Kemp 12 of discussions.
The outcome of these evaluations showed that directors A.
B. C. Short 7 2 were positive about the performance and process of the board and A. L. Memmott 12 the board committees, however they also indicated that the directors I. F. Greenock 5 1 welcomed separate company strategy discussions outwith the normal board meeting schedule.
This practice will therefore be continued.
B. C. Short attended the maximum number of boar d meetings after his appointment and was in attendance at two Audit Committee meetings.
I. F. Greenock attended the maximum number of board meetings in the year prior to his retirement.
42 Annual Report and Accounts January 2009 Accounts Statement on Corporate Governance Committees of the board Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in note 2 to the financial statements.
The terms of reference of the principal committees of the board Audit, Remuneration and Nomination are available on request from The external auditors report their audit results to the Audit Committee the company secretarial department.
including a summary of the significant accounting and auditing issues, internal control findings and a summary of audit differences identified.
Those terms of reference have been reviewed in the current year The Audit Committee would consider any disagreements in accounting and are reviewed at least annually.
The work carried out by the Audit treatment between management and the auditors, should any arise.
and Nomination Committees in discharging their responsibilities is summarised below.
The work carried out by the Remuneration At the beginning of each year, an internal control plan is developed Committee is described within the Directors Remuneration Report by the internal auditors with reference to the significant risks contained on pages 44 to 50. within the company risk register and identified controls.
The Audit Committee receives updates on the internal control workplan regularly Audit Committee throughout the year.
The Audit Committee consists of the two non-executive directors, J. S. Espey and R. G. Hanna.
The external auditors do not place any direct reliance on the work undertaken by the internal auditors due to the nature of the scope The Committee meets with executive directors and management, and the timing of their work.
as well as privately with the external and internal auditors.
In addition to the standing members of the Audit Committee and In the current year the Committee has: representatives from the external auditors, A.
B. C. Short, the group Reviewed and advised the board on the groups interim and annual finance director, routinely attends.
Financial Statements: Reviewed the control of the groups financial and business risks: Nomination Committee Discussed and agreed the nature and scope of the work to The Nomination Committee consists of W. R. G. Barr, J. S. Espey and be performed by the external auditors and internal auditors: R. G. Hanna.
The Committee is chaired by W. R. G. Barr.
Reviewed the results of this audit work and the response of management: The Committee leads the process for making appointments to the board: Reviewed the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control ensures that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for including financial, operational, compliance and risk management : the appointment of new directors to the board: reviews the composition Made recommendations on the appointment, re-appointment and of the board through a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge and remuneration of the external auditors and monitored the performance experience of directors: and ensures plans are in place for orderly of the auditors: and succession for appointments to the board, and to other senior executive Reviewed the non-audit services provided to the group by the external management positions.
During the year, the Committee nominated auditors and monitored and assessed the independence of both the and appointed A. L. Memmott and A.
B. C. Short as directors following external and internal auditors.
The Committee has ensured that both the board and the external Internal control auditors have safeguards in place to prevent the compromise of the auditors independence and objectivity.
The external auditors also The board has overall responsibility for the groups internal control reported regularly to the Committee on the actions that they have taken systems and annually reviews its effectiveness, including a review to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and current of financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls.
best practice in order to maintain their independence.
The implementation and maintenance of the risk management and internal control systems are the responsibility of the executive directors The Committee reviews the auditors independence annually and ensures and other senior management.
The system is designed to manage that they comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standard.
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material At the year end meeting to review the annual report and accounts the misstatement or loss.
Audit Committee formally considers the level of non-audit services and fees provided by the groups auditors.
The detail and level of fees are The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems, fully discussed and the committee is satisfied that there is no risk to the including controls related to financial, operational and reputational risks identified by the group, in accordance with the Code for the period objectivity and independence of the external audit arising from the level from 27th January, 2008 to the date of approval of this annual report.
Any services to be provided by the external auditors No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during this review.
above a level set by the Audit Committee must be approved by the Had any failings or weaknesses been identified then the board would Audit Committee.
have taken the action required to remedy them.
