DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 1 Introduction This report sets out the Companys remuneration policy for Directors.
It provides details of the Remuneration Committee and its duties relating to remuneration, a description of the remuneration policy of the Company and details of the remuneration of all Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Board has prepared this report in accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the Companies Act 2006.
An Ordinary Resolution to approve this report will be put to the members at this years Annual General Meeting, but the Directors remuneration is not conditional upon the resolution being passed.
Deloitte LLP have audited the following items as required by law: The tables of Directors remuneration and associated footnotes on pages 78 to 80: and The tables of Directors share options on page 73 and the disclosure of awards to Directors under the LTIP on page 76.
2 Remuneration Committee 2.1 Membership The current members of the Remuneration Committee the Committee are: Sir Malcolm Field Chairman of the Committee Sir Roderic Lyne Lord Guthrie The following Non-Executive Directors were members of the Committee during 2009: Sir Malcolm Field 22 April 2009 onwards Sir Rudolph Agnew resigned as a Director and member of the Committee on 2 June 2009 Lord Guthrie Peter Hill-Wood until 22 April 2009 Sir Roderic Lyne from 25 June 2009 The Committee met seven times during 2009 and members attendance is set out on page 63 of these Financial Statements.
During 2009, the Chairman of the Company and the Company Secretary participated in six of the meetings of the Committee, at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
Neither were present when issues relating to their own remuneration were discussed.
Attendance of other Directors is set out on page 63 of these Financial Statements.
No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
2.2 Role of the Committee The Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the framework and policy for the remuneration of the Companys Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, any newly appointed Executive Director and Company Secretary and for members of the Executive Committee.
The Committee is also responsible in consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive as appropriate for determining the total individual remuneration package of each Executive Director and for reviewing annually the management proposals for the Executive Committee members, including participation in the Long Term Incentive Plan.
The Committee is responsible for the review of the performance of the Executive Directors and can also make recommendations to the Board concerning employee incentives.
The overriding objective of the Committee is to ensure that the Companys approach to remuneration is simple, clear and fair.
During the year ended 31 December 2009, in addition to the above and to routine matters, the Committee undertook a review of the remuneration policies and arrangements of the Company and Aricom plc now Aricom Limited and formulated a consolidated remuneration policy following the acquisition by the Company of Aricom plc, introduced new terms of reference and recommended to the Board the introduction of a Long Term Incentive Plan.
As a result of the acquisition by the Company of Aricom plc, the composition of the Board changed with resignations and appointments taking effect in April 2009.
Details of the changes may be found in the Directors report on pages 54 to 61 and the salaries fees of Directors disclosed in this report reflect these changes.
The Committee will hold under review remuneration trends and market practice for example, deferred bonus provisions with clawback clauses and will give due consideration as to whether the application of market trends may be relevant and appropriate for the Company.
The Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference, which are available on the Companys website.
70 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 2.3 Advisers to the Committee During the year, the Board took advice from M C Lutyens Consulting Services which conducted an independent review of the current remuneration structure and assisted with the development of a formal remuneration, bonus and benefits policy and process.
M C Lutyens Consulting Services does not provide any other services to the Group.
The Committee also took advice from Norton Rose LLP with regard to the establishment of the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan.
The Committee also draws on information from a range of sources including independent salary reviews, market surveys and published guidance.
2.4 Review of effectiveness As part of the review of effectiveness, the Committees terms of reference are held under review to ensure that they remain relevant and appropriate.
New terms of reference were adopted during the year and are available on the Companys website at www.
The effectiveness of the Committee is subject to ongoing review by the Committee itself and by the Board as a whole.
The Committee is required, at least once a year, to review its own performance, constitution and terms of reference to ensure it is operating at maximum effectiveness and recommend any changes it considers necessary to the Board.
The view of the Board is that the Committee has satisfactorily performed the duties set out in its terms of reference.
2.5 Corporate Governance The Committee is of the view that its terms of reference cover the main duties set out in The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008.
The Committee is constituted in accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code since all of its members are deemed independent under the Combined Code.
3 Remuneration policy 3.1 Executive Directors remuneration Board policy The Committee recognises that to achieve its business objectives, the Group and its performance depends on the quality of its employees and the Groups remuneration policy is therefore designed to provide competitive remuneration packages to attract, motivate and retain high-calibre executives.
The Committee keeps the remuneration policy under constant review to ensure its ongoing appropriateness and to take account of changing market, industry and economic circumstances, as well as developing Group requirements.
Each Executive Directors total remuneration package consists of basic salary, annual bonus and other benefits.
In considering the remuneration and bonus payments made or awarded to executive management in 2009, the Committee has taken into account the contribution made towards the successful acquisition by the Company of Aricom plc and the move to the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
The Committee carefully considers the alignment of the interests of shareholders and those of the executive management who have created shareholder value.
As a result, the Companys policy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior management should be performance-related.
In structuring the Executive Directors remuneration, the Committees expectation is that the split between performance-based pay and fixed pay would be approximately 60%: 40% respectively.
There are four main elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors and senior management: basic annual salary: benefits-in-kind including pensions: performance-based annual bonus payments: and long-term share option incentives.
In line with the Association of British Insurers Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee will seek to ensure that the incentive structure for Executive Directors and senior executives will not raise environmental, social or governance ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
More generally, with regard to the overall remuneration structure, there is no restriction on the Committee which prevents it from taking into account corporate governance on ESG matters and the Committee takes due account of issues of general operational risk when structuring incentives.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 71 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 3.1 Executive Directors remuneration continued Executive Directors are entitled to accept appointments outside the Company providing that the Chairmans permission is obtained in advance of any such appointment.
Details of fees retained for appointments to other listed companies are on page 76 and biographies of the Directors are on pages 52 to 53.
Details of the Executive Directors remuneration package are set out below in the table on page 79 of these Financial Statements.
Remuneration components Basic salary The basic salary of the Chairman and the Executive Directors is targeted relative to industry average levels for comparable roles in similar companies in terms of market sector, location, business complexity and size.
Market data and remuneration surveys are used to benchmark salary levels.
Basic salary levels are set by reference to the individuals performance, experience and any other relevant factors and are reviewed annually or when an individual changes position or responsibilities.
The review takes into account market trends, Company performance, any changes in the responsibilities of the individual, the performance of the individual in their role, any changes required to meet the principles of the remuneration policy and the Companys market competitiveness.
Executive remuneration packages should be designed to attract, motivate and retain Directors and senior management of the calibre needed to develop and run the Groups businesses and to reward them for enhancing value for our shareholders.
Bonus The amount of the bonus paid to an individual is determined by reference to achievement against annual performance targets which include measures of corporate performance.
The approach is designed to ensure that the annual bonus reflects the financial results of the Company and also the performance of individuals.
The Committee establishes specific objectives that must be met for each financial year if a performance-related bonus is to be paid.
The objectives for 2009, applicable for the period since the Companys acquisition of Aricom plc in April 2009, are shown below.
The Committee believes that any incentive compensation awarded should be tied to the interests of the Companys shareholders and account is also taken of the overall relative success of the business and the extent to which the strategic objectives set by the Board are being met.
The maximum performance-related bonus that can be paid is 150% of basic annual salary for the Chairman and the Chief Executive and 100% of basic salary for all other Executive Directors.
In exceptional circumstances, which will be specifically described, the Committee can award bonuses above the agreed percentage.
Bonus Awards 2009 The objectives and achievements for 2009 covered the following: Successful execution of the acquisition of Aricom plc by the Company, integrating UK and Russian operations: Delivering above 2009 budget EBITDA for the merged company with particular references to production targets oz, gross margin and cost ratios: Achieving the planned dates for opening new mines and developing existing assets: Establishing for the merged company a strategic plan to deliver shareholder value through effective use of cash resources: and Ensuring reserves and resources are classified under JORC and advised to the market.
A bonus award of 70% of bonus potential was made to the three Executive Directors following successful delivery of objectives as follows: EBITDA the target of US$221 million was met for 2009: New debt facilities of US$210 million achieved: Pioneer Phase 2 in September 2009 on time and on budget: Successful re-branding programme following the acquisition of Aricom plc: Execution of the acquisition of Aricom plc, generating an integrated company in both the UK and Russia: and On course to deliver reserves and resources reporting in compliance with the JORC code and to advise to the market in the first half of 2010.
72 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Bonus payments to the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2009 varied between 70% and 105% of their basic salary being 70% of the total bonus potential of between 100% and 150% as at 31 December 2009.
Further details are shown in the table on page 79.
Details of the amounts of the bonuses paid to Directors are set out below in the table on page 79 of these Financial Statements.
Pensions All Executive Directors and all employees on UK contracts are invited to participate in the Companys defined contribution pension scheme whereby the Company currently contributes between 5% and 12.5% of salary and the individual contributes 3% of basic salary, subject to certain exceptions.
For the year ended 31 December 2009, the Company contributed between 5% and 10% of salary and the individual contributed 3%.
Details of amounts paid to Directors are set out in the table on page 79 of these Financial Statements.
Other benefits Other benefits include medical insurance, professional fees, death in service benefits, ill health benefits, accommodation allowances and expenses where applicable.
Chairman The Chairmans fees are reviewed annually by the Committee, in accordance with the Board policy on Executive Directors remuneration.
3.2 Share option schemes Pursuant to the acquisition of Aricom plc, the Company agreed to grant in aggregate 231,250 options to participants in the Aricom directors share option scheme, one of whom was a Director of the Company for part of the year, in exchange for Aricom shares awarded to them under the terms of that scheme.
Options are not subject to performance criteria since they were granted under the Aricom plc scheme and were subject to the rules of the Aricom plc scheme in place at the time of granting the award.
There were no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria during the financial year.
During the year under review, one former Director of the Company held and exercised options in the Company as follows: Number of Number of Aricom plc Petropavlovsk PLC ordinary shares Ordinary Shares Number of under option as at under option Exercised on Total gain Petropavlovsk PLC 1 January 2009 following the 19 October 2009 on exercise Ordinary Shares granted at nil acquisition Granted during at an exercise of options under option as at consideration of Aricom plc the year price of 6.72 during the year 31 December 2009 Former Director: Jay Hambro 2,500,000 156,250 156,250 718,727 The market price of the Ordinary Shares at 31 December 2009 was 10.26 and the range during the year was 3.71 to 13.16.
3.3 Long Term Incentive Plan The Company currently operates a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP which was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 25 June 2009.
The LTIP provides long-term incentives to Executive Directors and senior management and operates in conjunction with an Employee Benefit Trust to provide an effective and flexible means of holding assets for the benefit of employees and their families and providing valuable long-term benefits.
The LTIP aligns the long-term interests of participants with those of our shareholders.
The LTIP provides for the following types of share award the Awards : a options with an exercise price per share not less than the market value of a share at the time of grant Options : b performance share awards, being awards delivering free shares granted as conditional awards or nil-cost options Performance Share Awards : and c deferred bonus awards, being an award of shares in lieu of annual bonus and conditional upon continuing service Deferred Bonus Awards Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 73 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 3.3 Long Term Incentive Plan continued Awards will be made at the discretion of the Board on recommendation by the Committee, or in the case of the Companys Executive Directors, at the discretion of the Committee.
The LTIP may be operated in conjunction with the Companys employee benefit trust whereby awards of shares may take the form of conditional allocations of shares held by the trustee for the benefit of employees and their family members.
The vesting of allocations will be subject to the conditions described below.
Awards under the LTIP vest three years from the date of grant and are subject to challenging, pre-set performance conditions see below determined by the Committee, having regard to market practice within the Companys business sector, and in the case of Awards granted to the Companys Executive Directors, relating to the overall performance of the Company.
Key Features of the LTIP At any time, the total number of shares which have been issued or remain issuable pursuant to grants made under the LTIP and under any other employees share scheme established by the Company, may not exceed 10% of the shares in issue at that time.
For the purposes of this limit, treasury shares will be treated as issued and shares which are the subject of lapsed awards shall be excluded.
No payment is required for the grant of an Award.
If the Company makes a distribution including by way of dividend to its shareholders between the grant of a Performance Share Award or Deferred Bonus Award and the date on which shares are received pursuant to the award, the Committee may, in its absolute discretion, determine that the number of shares subject to the Award shall be increased to reflect the value of the distribution which would have been paid on the shares subject to the Award had such shares been held by the awardholder.
Options will have an exercise price per share not less than the market value of a share at the time of grant.
The aggregate market value of shares subject to Options and Performance Share Awards granted during any financial year of the Company to an individual shall not exceed 200 per cent.
of his basic salary measured at the time of grant.
However, in exceptional circumstances such as a senior executives recruitment, this limit may be exceeded provided that grant levels will remain within a maximum approved by the Committee.
Options and Performance Share Awards may be exercised or shall vest as the case may be subject to the following conditions: i the awardholder remaining in service with the Company or any of its subsidiaries together, the Group for such period as the Committee shall determine being not less than three years from the date of grant: and ii satisfaction of appropriate and challenging performance conditions determined by the Committee, having regard to market practice within the Companys business sector and relating to the overall performance of the Company.
Options or Performance Share Awards structured as nil-cost options shall lapse on the tenth anniversary of grant to the extent unexercised.
Performance Conditions During 2009, the Committee granted Performance Share Awards and for those awards the Committee has approved that the following performance conditions shall apply: i 50% of the shares subject to the Performance Share Award shall vest based on a condition relating to total shareholder return the TSR Condition : and ii 50% of the shares subject to the Performance Share Award shall vest based on specific conditions relating to the Companys business development and strategic plans the Operating Conditions.
The TSR Condition will relate to growth in total shareholder return TSR over the three year period from the date of grant until 30 June 2012 relative to the TSR growth of companies in a selected peer group of listed international mining companies the Comparator Group.
TSR Condition The TSR Condition provides for vesting as follows: Company rank within the Comparator Group Percentage of shares which may be acquired, depending on TSR Condition within top decile 50% at median 25% below median Nil The number of shares which may be acquired on performance by the Company above median but below top decile shall be determined on a straight-line interpolation between the relevant percentages.
74 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TSR is calculated by taking growth in share price and assuming that net dividends declared during the performance period are reinvested.
TSR values for the Company and companies in the comparator shall be calculated over the first and last 30 consecutive dealing days of the three year performance period.
The Comparator Group comprises Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd, Alamos GoldInc.
AngloGold Ashanti Limited, Atlas Iron Limited, Barrick Gold Corporation, Compaa fide Minas Buenaventura S. A.
A. Coeur dAlene Mines Corporation, Eldorado Gold Corporation, Ferrexpo plc, Gindalbie Metals Ltd, Gold Fields Ltd, Goldcorp Inc. Highland Gold Mining Ltd, Hochschild Mining plc, IAMGOLD Corporation, Kinross Gold Corporation, London Mining Plc, Murchison Metals Limited, Newmont Mining Corporation, OJSC Polymetal, OJSC, Polyus Gold and Trans-Siberian Gold plc.
The Committee may, at its sole discretion, remove from the Comparator Group a member which has ceased to be quoted or to exist or whose relevance to the Company as a comparator has, in the opinion of the Committee, significantly diminished and may also, at its discretion, add to the Comparator Group whether to replace a removed member or otherwise if it believes that such addition will enhance the relevance of the Comparator Group to the Company.
Operating Conditions The Committee has approved the Operating Conditions to be measured over the period of three years from grant.
The detailed requirements of the Operating Conditions will be communicated to awardholders upon grant and will relate to: i acquisition and development of new high-quality resources: ii successful construction and development of existing assets: iii meeting and exceeding budgeted production targets: iv operating safe and efficient mining operations: v strong operating cost control throughout the business: and vi generating synergy benefits from the recent acquisition of Aricom plc.
In addition, the Performance Share Awards shall not vest unless the Committee is satisfied that: i the performance achieved is a genuine reflection of the underlying financial performance of the Group: ii the Group has complied in material respects with regulatory and licence requirements: and iii the Company has demonstrated good management of shareholder relations.
The full details of these conditions are commercially sensitive, however, the Committee expects to publish details of the objectives achieved at the time of vesting.
For Performance Share Awards or Options granted in future years, the Committee will review whether the performance conditions remain appropriate and challenging taking into account the industrys outlook and shareholders interests.
The Committee may adopt revised conditions, which it considers to be no less demanding.
Where events occur which cause the Committee to consider that any established performance condition has become unfair in either direction or impractical, the Committee may amend or replace such condition as it deems appropriate provided such revised or new condition is, in the Committees opinion, no more and no less difficult to satisfy.
Deferred Bonus Awards The Committee may in respect of any financial year of the Company determine that up to 100% of an eligible employees annual bonus shall be satisfied by the grant of a Deferred Bonus Award, which shall vest subject to the awardholder remaining in service with the Group for such period as the Committee shall determine being not less than 12 months from the date of grant.
Cessation of Employment Change of Control Awards shall become exercisable or immediately vest as the case may be if an awardholder ceases to be employed by the Group by reason of his death, injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy, retirement, in the event of a takeover, change of control or winding-up of the Company or for any other reason which the Board in its absolute discretion permits.
In the case of Options or Performance Share Awards, such Awards will become exercisable or immediately vest as the case may be based on the extent to which the Committee determines that the performance conditions have been met or are likely to be met.
The number of shares subject to all relevant Awards shall be pro-rated down to reflect the reduced service period.
In the event of a takeover change of control, Awards may, by agreement with the acquiring company, be exchanged Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 75 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 3.3 Long Term Incentive Plan continued for awards over shares in the acquiring company.
In the event of an internal re-organisation of the Company, all Awards will be automatically exchanged for equivalent awards subject to the terms of the LTIP over an appropriate number of new securities.
If an awardholder ceases employment for any other reason prior to his Award vesting or becoming exercisable, his Award will lapse immediately on cessation of employment.
2009 Awards During the year, the following award was made to a Director of the Company: Number of Number of Petropavlovsk Petropavlovsk Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares subject to awards subject to as at date of awards as at appointment as a Awards granted Awards vested 31 December Name Director during the year during the year Vesting date 2009 6 February 2 2010 and 1 2 3 3 Brian Egan 53,846 58,333 Nil 25 June 2012 112,179 Notes: 1 Appointed as a Director 22 April 2009.
2 Pursuant to the acquisition of Aricom plc, the trustees of the Companys employee benefit trust granted an award to Brian Egan in the form of a conditional allocation of 53,846 Petropavlovsk Ordinary Shares which were not subject to any performance criteria for the benefit of the awardholder and his family since these awards were made in exchange for an award held over Aricom plc ordinary shares under the Aricom plc Long Term Incentive Plan.
The allocation, which was subject to continued employment, vested in February 2010.
The market price of a Petropavlovsk Ordinary Share on the date of grant of the replacement allocation 22 April 2009 was 5.36 and on the date of vesting 6 February 2010 was 8.58.
3 On 25 June 2009, awards were granted by the trustees of the Companys employee benefit trust under the Petropavlovsk Long-Term Incentive Plan, in the form of a conditional allocation of Petropavlovsk Ordinary Shares for the benefit of the relevant Director and his family.
Subject to the attainment of performance conditions as set out at above and continued employment, the allocation will vest on 25 June 2012.
The market price of a Petropavlovsk Ordinary Share on 25 June 2009 was 6.00.
Upon vesting on 25 June 2012, subject to the attainment of performance conditions, the shares may be acquired for nil consideration.
Awards were also made to executive management within the Group.
Peter Hambro and Pavel Maslovskiy did not participate in the LTIP.
3.4 External appointments Executive Directors are not permitted to hold external directorships or offices of other fully-listed or AIM-listed companies without the prior approval of the Board.
If such an approval is granted, they may each retain the fees payable from such appointments see below.
The Board believes that the appointment of any Director as a non-executive director of another company can broaden their experience and knowledge, to the benefit of the Group.
In the case of companies where any conflict of interest may occur, the Director concerned is required to declare such interest to the Board and to abstain from participating in any discussions or voting on such matters.
During the year ended 31 December 2009, the following external directorships of listed companies were held by the Executive Directors of the Company who held office during the year: Fee paid for the External year ended Appointments to 31 December Executive Directors who held office during 2009 Listed Companies 2009 1 2 Peter Hambro Aricom plc 20,000 1 3 Brian Egan Aricom plc 4 Andrey Maruta None 4 Alexei Maslovskiy None 1 2 Pavel Maslovskiy Aricom plc 36,667 4 Alfiya Samokhvalova None 4 5 Karolina Subczynska None 1 Director of Aricom plc until the acquisition by the Company on 22 April 2009.
Brian Egan remains a Director of Aricom Limited formerly Aricom plc, now a Petropavlovsk Group subsidiary, but does not receive a fee for this directorship.
2 Until the acquisition by the Company of Aricom plc, Aricom plc was considered a connected party to Peter Hambro and Pavel Maslovskiy as a result of their shareholdings and directorships in that company.
3 Brian Egan received a directors salary from Aricom plc between 1 January 2009 and 21 April 2010 but, since he was not a Director of the Company during that period, no disclosure is required.
4 Resigned as a Director of the Company on 20 April 2009.
5 Karolina Subczynska was a director of Aricom Services Limited, a subsidiary of Aricom plc and received an annual fee of 305 for the period from 1 January 2009 to 20 April 2009, when she resigned as a Director of Petropavlovsk PLC.
76 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 3.5 Non-Executive Directors remuneration Board policy The maximum aggregate sum available to remunerate Non-Executive Directors in the Articles of Association is currently 1,000,000 per annum.
There are no current plans to propose an amendment to the Articles of Association to increase to this aggregate sum during 2010.
The current basic annual fee for each Non-Executive Director is 87,550.
Sir Malcolm Field and Peter Hill-Wood each receive an annual fee of 90,000.
The Board is conscious that, just as the Group must set remuneration levels to attract and retain high-calibre executives, it must also ensure that remuneration rates for Non-Executive Directors are set at a level that will attract the calibre of Director necessary to contribute to an effective and high-performing Board.
The fees payable to Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2010 are set out on page 81 and the Board does not intend to increase these fees during 2010.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the Groups pension arrangements or to receive other benefits.
Non-Executive Directors remuneration is approved by the Board as a whole on the recommendation of the Chairman.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in discussions relating to their own fees.
Fees are set to reflect the responsibilities and time spent by the Directors on the affairs of the Company.
The Board reviews Non-Executive Directors fees annually to ensure they remain market-competitive.
Fees Details of the fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are set out below in the table on page 79 of these Financial Statements.
Sums paid to third parties No consideration was paid to or became receivable by third parties for making available the services of any person as a Director of the Company during the year to 31 December 2009 2008: nil.
4 Terms of appointment At each Annual General Meeting, one third of Directors are required to retire and stand for re-election and, in addition, all those Directors who have been in office for three years or more since their election or last re-election shall retire from office and, being eligible, will stand for re-election.
Each Director is subject to re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following his appointment by the Board.
At this years Annual General Meeting, Charles McVeigh and Graham Birch will stand for re-election following their appointment on 25 June 2009 and 12 February 2010 respectively.
The Directors retiring by rotation are Lord Guthrie and Pavel Maslovskiy.
Executive Directors Each of the Executive Directors has a service contract with the Company.
It is the Groups policy that Executive Directors service contracts have no fixed term, but are capable of termination giving a maximum of 12 months notice.
There are no provisions in any of the Executive Directors appointment arrangements for compensation payable on early termination of their directorship.
The appointments can be terminated by paying in lieu of the notice period with such pay in lieu being limited to the Executive Directors basic salary only.
The Company has the right to claw back this payment and or make the payment in monthly instalments in the event that the Director finds alternative employment and mitigates his loss.
Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors, who are appointed for an initial term of three years, have formal letters of appointment setting out their duties and responsibilities.
These letters are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
There are no provisions in any of the current Non-Executive Directors appointment arrangements for compensation payable on early termination of their directorship.
The appointments can be terminated by paying in lieu of the notice period with such pay in lieu being limited to the Non-Executive Directors basic fee only.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 77 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 4 Terms of appointment continued Notice periods Notice periods for Directors are as follows: Date of Contract Notice period Executive Directors Peter Hambro 1 September 2009 12 months Pavel Maslovskiy 1 September 2009 12 months Brian Egan 21 April 2009 12 months Non-Executive Directors Graham Birch 12 February 2010 3 months Sir Malcolm Field 21 April 2009 3 months Lord Guthrie 21 April 2009 3 months Peter Hill-Wood 21 April 2009 3 months Sir Roderic Lyne 21 April 2009 3 months Charles McVeigh 25 June 2009 3 months Directors letters of appointment and service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
5 Table of emoluments Aggregate Directors remuneration The total amounts for Directors remuneration were as follows: 2009 2009 2008 2008 000 US$000 000 US$000 Emoluments 1,651 2,580 1,762 3,239 Contributions to personal pensions 41 64 27 50 2 Other benefits 13 20 85 156 Bonus payments 2,198 3,434 926 1,702 Total 3,903 6,098 2,800 5,147 1 Rates of exchange used: 2009: 0.64: US$1: 2008 0.54: US$1 average exchange rate throughout the year.
2 A termination payment of 85,000 was paid to Philip Leatham, a former Director of the Company, following his resignation on 30 September 2008.
2 Resigned as a Director on 20 April 2009.
Subsequent to the acquisition by the Company of Aricom plc, these former Directors now form part of the Executive Committee.
Accordingly, the remuneration disclosed in this table relates to the period 1 January 2009 to 20 April 2009.
Disclosure of additional payments made to these Directors subsequent to their resignation as Directors is set out in Notes 1 and 2 below.
3 Appointed as a Director on 22 April 2009.
The remuneration disclosed in this table relates to the period 22 April 2009 to 31 December 2009.
4 Resigned as a Director on 2 June 2009.
The fees shown in this table relate to the period 1 January 2009 to 2 June 2009.
Sir Rudolph Agnew was appointed as a consultant to the Company for a two year period commencing 2 June 2009 for an annual fee of 87,550.
As part of its long-term management plans the Group held an off-site planning and review session in November 2009 which brought together a number of strategic themes for the future development of the Groups assets: including budget issues, investment profiles and funding.
Sir Rudolph Agnew had a significant role in the build up to, and preparation for the session but, as a consultant, was not required to attend the strategy meeting.
5 Appointed as a Director on 25 June 2009.
6 Salary paid in respect of services provided to Group companies.
7 Special bonus paid in 2009 in recognition of the services provided in relation to the acquisition of Aricom plc and to the admission of the Companys shares to the Official List of the FSA and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange plc.
8 Includes expense allowances as follows: Accommodation Medical Insurance Total Andrey Maruta 270 270 Alexei Maslovskiy 139 139 Brian Egan 8,000 4,194 12,194 Alfiya Samokhvalova 489 489 Karolina Subczynska 390 390 9 Defined Contribution Scheme.
10 Appointed during 2008: Lord Guthrie was appointed on 22 January 2008 and Karolina Subczynska was appointed on 17 September 2008.
11 Resigned as a Director on 30 September 2008.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 79 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 5 Table of emoluments continued Additional notes: 1.
In May 2009, the Remuneration Committee approved a retention bonus for those former Peter Hambro Mining plc Executive Directors who stepped down from the Board on completion of the acquisition of Aricom plc.
The terms of the bonus required that the Executives remained with the Group until 6 February 2010.
The bonus amounts allocated are 280,000 to Andrey Maruta and Alfiya Samokhvalova, 140,000 to Karolina Subczynska and 100,000 to Alexei Maslovskiy.
The total of 800,000 was paid to these former Executive Directors on 8 February 2010 on fulfilment of the service condition.
This amount is not included in the total remuneration of those former Directors in the previous table page 79, as it was not considered to be remuneration paid in relation to services whilst a Director.
In May 2009, the Remuneration Committee approved the payment of a bonus to Mr Brian Egan of 100,000 and Mr Jay Hambro of 115,000.
These amounts were paid on 21 May 2009 and 5 June 2009 respectively.
The bonus was awarded in recognition of their contribution as Executive Directors of Aricom plc to the successful completion of the acquisition of Aricom plc by the Company.
This amount is not included in the total remuneration set out in the table above, as it is not remuneration received with respect to qualifying services provided to the Company.
6 Acquisition of Aricom plc As a result of the Companys acquisition of Aricom, the Committee undertook a review of the remuneration and benefit payable to Directors of the Company before the acquisition and of Aricom plc.
The Committee concluded that adjustments to the remuneration and benefits package of Executive Directors and senior management were required in order to align the remuneration of the two companies.
The Committee reviewed the combined salaries Directors fees paid to Peter Hambro and Pavel Maslovskiy by the Company and by Aricom plc for the year ended 31 December 2008, being the full year prior to the date of the acquisition, as follows: Non-Executive Directors fee paid Basic salary paid by the Company p. a. by Aricom plc p. a.
Group Company Companies Peter Hambro 305,250 43,779 60,000 409,029 Pavel Maslovskiy 305,250 26,224 110,000 441,474 Further to discussion of the above and acknowledgement of the increased responsibilities of the Executive Directors following the acquisition of Aricom plc, the Committee agreed that with effect from 1 September 2009 the salaries of the Executive Directors would be as follows: Peter Hambro 500,000 Pavel Maslovskiy 500,000 Brian Egan 350,000 It was further agreed that with effect from 1 February 2010, the Chairman and Directors salaries and fees would be as follows: Executive Directors Basic salary Peter Hambro 600,000 Pavel Maslovskiy 600,000 Brian Egan 350,000 No further salary review of the Executive Directors will take place until January 2011.
80 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Non-Executive Directors The Board has approved that with effect from 1 January 2010 the Non-Executive Directors fees will be as follows: Graham Birch 87,550 p. a.
Appointed as a Director on 12 February 2010 Sir Malcolm Field 90,000 p. a. Lord Guthrie 87,550 p. a. Peter Hill-Wood 90,000 p. a.
Sir Roderic Lyne 87,550 p. a. Charles McVeigh 87,550 p. a.
7 Directors share interests The interests of Directors who held office during the period 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2009 in the Ordinary Shares of the Company are set out in the Directors report on pages 54 to 61 of these Financial Statements.
8 Performance comparator graph This report includes a graph illustrating the Companys performance relative to the FTSE 350 Mining Index, as seen below.
The Board considers the FTSE 350 Mining Index to be the most appropriate index for comparison because the Company operates within the mining sector.
2,000 1,800 1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 31 12 04 31 12 05 31 12 06 31 12 07 31 12 08 31 12 09 Petropavlovsk PLC FTSE 350 Mining Index This report was approved by the Board of Directors of Petropavlovsk PLC and signed on its behalf by: Sir Malcolm Field Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 March 2010 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 81
