Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Remuneration report Remuneration committee Meetings Name of director Position attended Jeremy Scudamore Chairman Senior Independent Director 2 2 Kathleen ODonovan Independent non-executive director 1 2 John Scarisbrick Independent non-executive director 2 2 Young Sohn Independent non-executive director 2 2 The remuneration committee has responsibility for determining and agreeing with the board, within agreed terms of reference, the Groups policy for the remuneration of the executive directors and the individual remuneration packages for each executive director.
This includes basic salary, annual bonus, the level and terms of conditional awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan and the terms of performance conditions that apply to such benefits, pension rights and any compensation payments.
Where the remuneration committee considers it appropriate, the committee will make recommendations in relation to the remuneration of senior management.
The committee also liaises with the board in relation to the preparation of the boards annual report to shareholders on the Groups policy on the remuneration of executive directors and in particular the directors remuneration report, as required by the Companies Act 2006, the Combined Code 2008 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The committees terms of reference are published on the companys website at www.
Given their diverse experience, the four independent non-executive directors who make up the committee are able to offer a balanced view and international expertise in relation to remuneration issues for the Group.
The committee has access to professional advice from external advisers generally appointed by Bill Parsons, the EVP, Human Resources in the furtherance of its duties and makes use of such advice.
During 2009, KPMG provided general advice on remuneration and benefits, including tax advice for employees who are seconded overseas and they also worked on royalty audits.
Linklaters provided legal services in relation to equity plans and corporate matters.
Monks provided salary survey data.
Deloitte provided salary survey data, royalty audit services and tax training.
Kepler Associates provided independent verification of TSR calculations for the Long Term Incentive Plan.
The EVP, Human Resources also provided advice to the committee and to the Group.
Monks is an associate of the Groups external auditor and these services were approved by the audit committee in accordance with the procedure described in the Corporate Governance report.
The Chief Executive Officer and the EVP, Human Resources, normally attend for part of remuneration committee meetings.
No director is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
Remuneration policy The remuneration committee, in its deliberations on remuneration policy for the Groups executive directors, seeks to give full consideration to the principles set out in the Combined Code.
The committee is able to consider corporate performance on environmental, social and corporate governance issues when setting the remuneration of executive directors.
The committee also monitors developments in accounting for equity-based remuneration on an ongoing basis.
The Group operates a remuneration policy and framework for executive directors designed to ensure that it attracts and retains the high quality management skills necessary to achieve a high level of corporate performance, in line with the best interests of shareholders.
This policy seeks to provide rewards and incentives for the remuneration of executive directors that reflect their performance and align with the objectives of the Group.
These comprise a mix of performancerelated and  remuneration.
The committee believes that a directors total remuneration should seek to recognise his worth in the external market and, to this end, operates a policy of paying base salaries which are in line with the market median, as part of a total remuneration package which is upper quartile.
The committee believes that this is justified, recognising that more than 50% of total potential remuneration is performance-related.
The committee obtains information about the external market from various independently published remuneration surveys and is committed to benchmarking the total remuneration package.
However, recognising the prevailing market conditions and the uncertainty over when the global economy would start to improve, the board implemented a pay freeze across the Group for the whole of 2009.
The nature of the Groups development has meant that there has been a good deal of focus on the attainment of short-term objectives with a high level of variable remuneration.
Since 2007, variable remuneration has consisted of two performance-related elements: annual bonus and a conditional award under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
A shareholding guideline is in place for executive directors and certain senior managers, who are required to build up a holding of shares in the Company over a period of five years.
The shareholdings may include shares received through earlier grants under the Companys share option schemes and or the Long Term Incentive Plan and or the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and, in the case of executive directors and members of the executive committee, the required holding is 100% of basic salary.
Incentive arrangements The remuneration committee aims to ensure that individuals are fairly rewarded for their contribution to the success of the Group.
There are four key incentive schemes in operation within the Group.
These are the Deferred Annual Bonus DAB and Long Term Incentive LTIP Plans for executive directors and senior managers and the Employee Equity and Annual Bonus Plans for all other employees.
These plans provide alignment between remuneration and the financial performance of the Group and strengthen retention of key employees through deferment of bonus.
Option grants to executive directors ceased in 2006 although the facility to grant options exists in exceptional circumstances and the move away from options to restricted shares for all employees, reduces potential dilution and has simplified remuneration arrangements.
