69 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Remuneration Report R Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee and its role This report provides information on Directors remuneration.
Andrew Dougal, William Korb, and Paul Withers served on the A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Companys Annual Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
Cary Nolan and General Meeting inviting them to approve this Report.
John Roques were members of the Committee from the beginning of the year until they each retired at the Companys Annual General Remuneration policy Meeting on 17 June 2008, when Dennis Millard was appointed to This report sets out the Companys policy on Directors the Committee.
remuneration for 2009 10 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent Andrew Dougal was Chairman of the Committee from February years.
The Committee considers that a successful remuneration 2008 until 20 January 2009 when Paul Withers took over the policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future chairmanship of the Committee.
All members of the Committee changes in the Groups business environment and remuneration are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee met five practice.
Any change in policy for years after 2009 10 will be times during the year covered by this report.
The Chairman will described in future Remuneration Reports.
continue to ensure the Company maintains contact, as necessary, The Companys overall policy aims are to: with its principal shareholders about remuneration.
attract, develop, motivate and keep talented people at all levels The Committee determines the specific remuneration packages throughout the Group: for Executive Directors and makes recommendations to the Board on, and monitors the level and structure of, remuneration of senior pay market competitive salaries and benefits to all of its people: managers being the first layer of management below Board level.
encourage the holding of shares in the Company as an effective The Company Chairman also attends all meetings of the way of aligning the interests of employees with those of Committee.
During the year the Committee received advice from shareholders: and Harriet Green in respect of the remuneration arrangements for other focus remuneration arrangements to help each business in the senior executives and from the Group HR Director in respect of Group meet its specific targets.
No individual is present when his or her own position is discussed.
Having been appointed by the The Boards policy for executive remuneration is to: Committee, Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS provide general pay a basic salary which is competitive with other companies of remuneration advice to the Committee and to the Company.
similar size and complexity: The Chairman and other members of the Committee have direct access to advice from HNBS and the Chairman is informed of all give executives the opportunity to increase their basic earnings material advice HNBS provides to the Company.
by meeting and outperforming key short-term and long-term measures, thereby linking executive rewards to the Groups The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are performance and shareholder interests: available on the Companys website or on request from the Company Secretary.
The terms of engagement between HNBS encourage executives to hold shares in the Company: and and the Remuneration Committee may be obtained from the reward executives fairly and responsibly for their contribution to Company Secretary.
the Groups performance, without paying more than is necessary to achieve this objective.
The current remuneration package The elements of remuneration for Executive Directors and senior In framing this policy, the Board has given full consideration to the executives for the year under review and the forthcoming financial provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance as year are set out below.
In particular, for 2009 10 the Remuneration updated in June 2006.
Committee has considered the structure of performance related It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors be permitted to pay under the short and long-term incentive schemes in the light hold one non-executive directorship with another company and that of the current economic downturn and extreme market uncertainty, the fees payable in respect of the directorship are retained by the and has adapted the performance conditions to reflect these Executive Director.
During the year, Harriet Green was appointed issues.
Details of how the schemes will operate in 2009 10 are a Non-Executive Director of Emerson Electric Co and is a member set out below.
For this, Harriet received during the year to 31 December 2008 fees of $35,167.
Harriet has also received two Salary and benefits awards of restricted stock from Emerson: the first made shortly after The Committee reviews salaries in June each year, taking account she took up her appointment in respect of 1,047 ordinary shares, of Group and personal performance and the salaries paid by with a fair market value as at grant of $47.715 per share and the companies of similar size and complexity.
The Committee also second on 3 February 2009 in respect of 3,450 ordinary shares takes account of the levels of pay awarded elsewhere in the Group.
with a fair market value on grant of $33.33 per share.
Changes to salaries take effect from 1 July in each year.
70 Remuneration Report continued The current base salaries for Harriet Green, Mark Whiteling and measures include a target relating to employee engagement, Laurence Bain are 500,000, 327,000 and 327,000 respectively, retention and development and other measures such as cash having been increased by 16% in the case of Harriet and 9% for flow management: Mark and Laurence.
These increases were made taking account the operating profit measure has been set as two six monthly of benchmarking data for other companies of similar size and targets, both with equal weighting, with the first set against complexity and of the fact that the Company also competes for budgeted performance in the period to 31 July 2009 and the senior personnel against larger US companies.
Harriets increase second determined independently, by reference to performance also reflects the excellent contribution which she has made as Chief between 1 August and 31 January 2010.
The budget and Executive since joining the Company and the criticality of retaining second half target will be reviewed and, if necessary, adjusted her as Chief Executive.
The increases were made in line with the upwards or downwards in June 2009 based on knowledge Companys normal pay review dates for all employees and before of market conditions at that time.
This approach is deemed the current economic downturn became apparent.
necessary for 2009 10 given the lack of predictability over second In view of the economic situation and recognising that the half earnings at the time the budget was set: Company must retain flexibility to reward promotions or increases in the operating profit will be calculated on a foreign currency neutral responsibility and be in a position to respond to market conditions basis so that Directors will not benefit from or be penalised for particular to a region or country, the Company has determined that swings in exchange rates: there will be no merit-based salary increases for Executive Directors or senior management during the financial year to January 2010. the strategic objectives will be assessed over the full year: The value of benefits for Executive Directors is included in the table any payment due will be made at the end of the financial year: of remuneration on page 74.
These benefits include a car allowance the maximum percentage of the bonus payable for achieving and life and health insurance for Harriet Green, Mark Whiteling and on-target performance has been reduced to 40%: Laurence Bain.
The value of each Executive Directors benefits is assessable to income tax, but is not pensionable.
at the year end, the Committee will review the full year bonus outturn and, if it feels that it is sufficiently unrelated to the Short-term incentives performance of the Group for the year as a whole to represent 2008 09 a reward for failure, it has retained the discretion to adjust the The Company operates an annual performance-related bonus payment to an appropriate level.
scheme the Management Incentive Plan or MIP for Executive It is the current intention of the Company that in future years the Directors and senior executives.
The maximum bonus potential MIP will revert to being assessed against twelve month targets but, under the MIP during the financial year to 1 February 2009 was should the outlook remain uncertain towards the end of this financial 120% of base salary for Harriet Green and 90% of base salary year, it may consider retaining the above arrangements.
If it does so, for Mark Whiteling and Laurence Bain.
To achieve this maximum this will be disclosed in the Companys Remuneration Report.
required attainment of a number of business specific and personal targets.
For the year under review, the targets were as follows: The following additional changes have been made to the MIP for 2009 10, with the view that these will apply for both 2009 10 Achievement of specified levels of operating profit for the financial and beyond: year to 1 February 2009.
66.6% of each Directors bonus was determined by reference to this: the maximum bonus potential for Mark Whiteling and Laurence Bain has been increased to 100% of base salary to align their Achievement of budgeted cash flow targets: remuneration more closely to market rates.
However, as stated Achievement of a gross margin target: above, the bonus on achieving on target performance has been reduced, meaning that the amount payable if this target is met is Other important and measurable business objectives relevant to lower than it was in 2008 09: the key elements of the Groups strategy.
to reflect best practice, the Remuneration Committee has been As the specified level of operating profit was not achieved, the given discretion to claim repayment of bonus paid in respect of Remuneration Committee assessed performance against the other years from 2009 onwards, if it emerges that those bonuses were targets.
The conclusion of this was that the bonuses should be paid in reliance on results which turn out to have been inaccurate.
10% of the available opportunity, reflecting good progress against the other targets, particularly those related to cash flow where None of the bonuses referred to above is pensionable.
actual performance was considerably ahead of target.
These bonus payments are shown in the table of Directors remuneration Long-term incentive arrangements on page 74.
The Companys policy is that, generally, awards of long-term incentives to Executive Directors and other senior managers will be 2009 10 made under its Performance Share Plan or PSP, the key features For the forthcoming year, the Remuneration Committee has of which are summarised below.
The Companys intention is that it considered the structure of the bonus in view of the uncertainty in will no longer make general grants of options under the Companys world markets and the limited visibility which the Group has of future Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS to individuals receiving activity levels, even in normal market conditions, and, following awards under the PSP, although the Committee has reserved consultation with a number of shareholders, has made certain the power to make future grants under the ESOS in exceptional changes to the MIP for the year commencing 2 February 2009. circumstances or to be competitive in local employment markets These changes are designed to ensure that the MIP supports the for example, in the USA.
Groups corporate goals and to incentivise the Executive Directors and senior management to achieve them.
As a result of these Performance share plan changes, the MIP will operate as follows in 2009 10: Under the PSP, Executive Directors and senior executives are awarded rights to acquire ordinary shares.
Each award made under the Plan comprises a combination of operating profit carrying the plan is subject to performance conditions which will determine a 70% weighting and strategic measures 30% weighting.
how many if any of the shares under the award the participant The strategic measures and operating profit targets are is entitled to acquire after a three-year performance period.
considered to be commercially sensitive and not suitable for The maximum award which can be made to a participant in any detailed disclosure but are set by reference to the individual year is equal to 150 percent of base salary.
It is the Companys Directors role and the goals of the Group.
The strategic 71 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 current policy to grant annual awards of 150% of salary to The performance of the Companys TSR in the period to Harriet Green, and 130% to Mark Whiteling and Laurence Bain.
1 February 2009 has been monitored in order to determine whether, The Remuneration Committee considered whether it would be if performance were to be measured at that time, the performance appropriate to reduce the level of awards to be granted in 2009 10 condition relevant to the awards granted in calendar years 2007 but determined that it would not, given the Companys strong and 2008 and those granted in calendar year 2006 for which performance compared with its peer group, as described below.
performance in respect of 100% of the award is tested by reference to the Companys TSR, as described above would have been met.
PSP awards in financial years 2007 08 and 2008 09 This exercise shows that, if 1 February 2009 were to be the final For the awards made in June 2007 and April 2008, two date of the test period for each of these awards, the Companys performance conditions applied to awards made to Executive TSR would rank as follows as compared with the members of the Directors.
Half of each award is subject to a relative total shareholder relevant comparator group listed as at that date, and that the return or TSR performance condition measured over a three-year following percentages of each award would vest: period.
The growth in the Companys TSR over this period is Award date Ranking of TSR among comparator Percentage compared to that of the companies in the comparator group and calendar year group listed as at 1 February 2009 vesting the Companys ranking among the comparator group determines 2006 62 out of 179 members 70.1% the percentage of the relevant half of the award that will vest and 2007 41 out of 143 members 89.4% become exercisable.
2008 18 out of 153 members 100% The comparator group consists of the FTSE 250 Index excluding banks, speciality and general financial, life insurance, investment The information above illustrates the Companys strong trusts, mining, non-life insurance, oil and gas producers and real performance against its peer group, particularly during calendar estate sector companies.
The other half of the awards made to Executive Directors are subject The graph below shows the performance, up to 1 February 2009, to a performance condition requiring growth in the Companys under the April 2006 award, compared to the median and upper earnings per share or EPS over the three-year performance period quartile of the comparator group.
The points plotted represent the to exceed the annual compound growth rate of the UK Retail Prices three month average TSR over the performance period for both the Index RPI over the same period by at least 4 percent at which Company and the median and upper quartile of the comparator point 20% of awards vest.
Full vesting will require compound group in line with the Plan Rules.
This demonstrates that, as at the annual growth of 12% per annum in excess of RPI.
end of the financial year, the Company's TSR ranked it between the median and upper quartile of the comparator group under the 2006 award.
2006 Award Performance Chart Premier Farnell Median TSR Upper Quartile TSR 3 month averaging 60% 40% 20% 0% -20% -40% -60% 2006 2007 2008 72 Remuneration Report continued PSP awards in financial year 2009 10 In addition, awards to which the TSR performance measure applies The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the targets to be will continue only to vest if the Committee is satisfied that the applied for the forthcoming grants under the PSP.
For the underlying performance of the Company during the performance avoidance of doubt, no changes are being considered to past period justifies the exercise of an award.
In the case of the ROS awards under the PSP.
element, the Committee must be satisfied that the improvement in ROS has not been achieved at the expense of the Groups market The outcome of this review was that, while the TSR condition is share in its electronics distribution sector.
In assessing performance considered to remain an appropriate and robust measure of in respect of market share, the Remuneration Committee will take performance in respect of one half of an award, EPS should be into account relevant industry statistics and competitor replaced with a return on sales or ROS target in respect of performance.
This change formed part of the consultation with shareholders referred to above.
ROS is calculated by dividing the For all awards made under the PSP, performance is measured operating profit or adjusted operating profit if this is reported in the over a three-year period and there is no re-testing of the Annual Report and Accounts by sales.
The half of the award which performance condition.
is subject to an ROS target will not vest unless ROS is 12% or For 2009 10, the use of a split of TSR and ROS has been higher in the final year of the three year performance period, with chosen as it is felt to provide an appropriate balance between full vesting requiring an ROS of 13% or higher.
Between these relative financial returns to shareholders and the internal financial points, the relevant half of the award vests on a straight line basis.
More specifically, the TSR For grants made in 2009, the ROS for the financial year ending in performance condition was chosen as the Committee believes 2012 will determine the level of vesting.
that TSR is an appropriate method of ensuring that the rewards ROS is currently one of the key strategic and financial targets for the to Executive Directors are aligned with those of shareholders by Company and it is its published target to achieve a 12% ROS over comparing the performance of the Company to that of the index of the next three years, compared to a current ROS of around 10.6%.
which it is a member while excluding those sectors which are felt As ROS represents the gross margin from sales, less the marginal to be too far removed from the Companys operations.
operating costs of the business, it can be influenced by ensuring The decision to replace EPS with ROS for 2009 10 was made as that gross margins are effectively managed and by careful control ROS is considered to be the measure most consistent with the of operating costs.
Companys strategic goals and a robust gauge of the successful The Committee believes that an ROS target encourages the delivery execution of the Groups strategy.
The range of ROS targets were of substantial shareholder value through increased profitability, and selected on the basis that they would represent a strong level of that the targets are aligned with the Companys strategic objectives.
performance if achieved and are felt to be no less stretching than the previous EPS conditions in the current market conditions.
By way of example only, if the Groups sales are 800 million and ROS is 10%, the pre-tax profit would be 80 million.
If sales were to In line with the change from using EPS for Executive Directors, remain at 800 million, but ROS improved to 12%, the pre-tax profit PSP participants below the Board will be assessed wholly on would increase to 96 million, so each 1% improvement in ROS ROS for forthcoming awards.
would create an extra 8 million of pre-tax profits.
For the stretch In assessing whether the TSR performance condition has been ROS target of 13% to be met, the operating profit would need met, the Committee will rely on calculations of the Companys to be 104 million again, assuming sales of 800 million or an TSR and that of the comparator group carried out on its behalf improvement of 30% over the current level.
The Companys EPS performance is reported quarterly The vesting schedules for the TSR and ROS performance targets in the Companys results announcements.
ROS is determined will be as follows: from and will be reported in the Companys audited accounts as described above.
In the event that the ROS figure to be used for Rank of the Companys TSR against Percentage of one-half of an award that determining performance under the PSP differs from the published the TSR of the members of the vests and becomes exercisable comparator group headline figure, this will be disclosed and explained in the Remuneration Report.
Upper quartile or above 100% Benefits under the PSP are not pensionable.
Between upper quartile On a straight line basis between The PSP is due to expire in 2010, and the Committee will, therefore, and median 20% and 100% carry out a review of the structure of the Companys long-term Median 20% incentives during this year before making any decision as to the most appropriate replacement arrangements.
Below median 0% Option schemes Return on Sales performance in 2012 Percentage of one-half of an award that vests and becomes exercisable The Company has an executive share option scheme, under which both Inland Revenue approved and unapproved options may be 13% or more 100% granted, and an SAYE option scheme.
Benefits under these plans are not pensionable.
As mentioned above, it is intended that, Between 12% and 13% On a straight line basis between generally, the Company will no longer grant executive share options 20% and 100% to individuals receiving awards under the PSP.
12% 20% In common with all eligible employees of the Group, Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Companys SAYE option Less than 12% 0% scheme.
These options are not subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition as this scheme is not restricted to Executive Directors and senior executives.
73 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Share ownership guideline The Companys executive shareholding policy requires Executive Target performance Directors and other senior executives to retain a number of the shares acquired as a result of the exercise of executive share CEO options or awards under the PSP until a shareholding with a value equal to the executives annual base salary is reached.
This level 56% 27% 17% of shareholding is then to be maintained.
Currently no Executive Director has acquired any shares in the Company from the exercise CFO and COO of executive share options or awards under the PSP and their holdings as disclosed below result from market purchases and, in the case of Harriet Green, from the vesting of awards made under 60% 24% 16% the restricted share plan detailed below.
Share usage under share-based incentive schemes 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Based on the number of options outstanding as at 1 February Proportion of Total Package 2009: Base Salary Bonus LTIP award vesting The number of new shares issued under all share option plans over the last ten years, together with the number potentially to be Ignores share price growth issued under all plans, totalled an amount equal to 3.24% of the Companys issued ordinary capital: and Pension arrangements The final salary section of the Premier Farnell UK Pension Scheme The number of new shares issued under all executive share option plans over the last ten years, together with the number the UK Scheme was closed to new entrants during 1998.
Employees joining the UK Scheme since 1 January 1999 are potentially to be issued under all executive plans, totalled an amount equal to 2.87% of the Companys issued ordinary entitled to money purchase benefits only and the UK Scheme is no longer contracted out.
As a result of changes to pensions legislation which came into effect These totals are well within the dilution limits of 10% and 5% respectively set by the ABI and reflected in the rules of the in April 2006, the Company offers employees who are over or close to reaching the lifetime allowance beyond which pension savings Companys share plans.
do not receive favourable tax treatment a cash supplement as It is intended that awards under the PSP will be satisfied by shares an alternative to pension accrual beyond the lifetime allowance.
purchased in the market by the Companys Employee Share Any such cash supplement is paid net of income tax and National Ownership Trust.
Insurance Contributions and is an amount no greater than the amount that the Companys pension contributions would have Relative importance of remuneration elements been for that individual.
The Committees view is that the performance related elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors should be a Harriet Green and Mark Whiteling are entitled to elect to receive either money purchase benefits from the UK Scheme or to have significant element of the total.
This serves to align the interests of such Directors with shareholders.
contributions made to a registered personal pension scheme.
In each case, the Companys contributions are equal to 25% The charts below illustrate the mix between the salary and incentive of basic salary.
Both Harriet and Mark have elected to have all pay of the Executive Directors for 2009 10 in both a target and contributions made to a personal pension scheme.
The total cost a stretch performance scenario.
These show that, if all the to the Company of these contributions during the financial year to performance related elements were to pay out in full, more than February 2009 was 117,709 2008:104,355 in respect of Harriet two thirds of the Executive Directors total remuneration before Green and 78,937 2008:73,437 in respect of Mark Whiteling.
pensions would be performance linked.
Throughout the year under review, Laurence Bain elected to receive a cash supplement in place of the contributions which would otherwise have been made by the Company to the UK scheme and Stretch performance the funded unapproved scheme on his behalf.
This supplement is CEO paid at the same rate as the Companys previous contributions to the UK Scheme and the funded unapproved scheme and, taking into account the National Insurance contributions payable by the 27% 32% 41% Company, equates to 27% of Laurences basic salary, which is in line with practice in previous years.
The total cost to the Company of contributions made by the Company in respect of Laurence Bain CFO and COO for the year under review was 82,897 2008: 79,380.
No Executive Directors receive any final salary pension benefits.
30% 30% 39% Service contracts 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% In accordance with the Companys policy, Harriet Green, Mark Whiteling and Laurence Bain have service agreements terminable Proportion of Total Package by the Company on twelve months notice.
Laurence Bains service Base Salary Bonus LTIP award vesting agreement dated 23 April 2004 allows the Company to make a payment of salary and benefits in lieu of the whole or part of his Ignores share price growth notice period.
74 Remuneration Report continued The service agreements for Harriet Green and Mark Whiteling, In the fee reviews in January 2009, the Committee and the Board dated 7 February 2006 and 28 June 2006 respectively, entitle the determined not to make any increases to the above fees for the Company to pay salary and benefits in lieu of the whole or part Chairman or the other Non-Executive Directors.
of the notice period in a single payment or by way of monthly The Non-Executive Directors do not have contracts of service, but instalments.
Where payments are made monthly, the Director is are appointed by letters of appointment.
Such appointments are under an obligation to mitigate his or her loss and, in so far as initially for a three-year term.
It is normal that the appointment is monthly payments relate to salary, they will reduce or cease renewed for a second three-year period, after which the Companys altogether on his or her accepting alternative employment.
policy is for re-appointments to be on an annual basis.
The expiry The contractual discretion to pay monthly does not apply dates of all re-appointments coincide with the Companys Annual where termination results from a change of control.
General Meeting in the relevant year.
Non-Executive Directors Aside from the lack of requirement to phase termination payments, are not eligible to participate in any incentive plans, share options in the event of a change of control of the Company, there are no schemes or Company pension arrangements and are not entitled special contractual provisions outside of the standard terms of the to any payment in compensation for any early termination of service contracts.
The vesting of awards under the Company's their appointment.
share incentive plans is determined by the Rules of the relevant The commencement dates for the current appointments of Plans and was approved by shareholders on adoption.
Non-Executive Directors are: Non-Executive Directors A Dougal 1 September 2006 three-year The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are approved by the Sir Peter Gershon 12 June 2007 three-year Board following a review carried out by the Chairman and W Korb 13 June 2006 three-year discussed with the Executive Directors.
Fees for the Chairman are D Millard 1 September 2007 three-year determined by the Remuneration Committee.
All reviews are carried P Withers 1 September 2007 three-year out annually in January.
Business expenses are also reimbursed.
Any Director appointed by the Board during the year holds office In addition to the base fee of 36,500, 6,000 per annum was only until the next Annual General Meeting and must then stand for paid to the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees election to continue in office.
Thereafter, each Director must retire and 3,000 to the Senior Independent Director during the year from office at every third Annual General Meeting since he or she under review.
The Chairmans fee during the year was 144,000. last retired, at which meeting he or she will be eligible for re-election.
Directors remuneration audited Salary or Annual Benefits Total fees bonus in kind emoluments Pension contributions 2009 2008 2009 2008 1 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive H Green 470 60 25 555 938 118 104 M Whiteling 316 29 16 361 536 79 73 L Bain 316 29 23 368 550 83 79 Non-Executive Sir Peter Gershon Chairman 144 144 130 A J H Dougal 42 42 40 W B Korb 37 37 34 3 D H Millard 42 4214 2 C J Nolan 14 1434 2 D J S Roques 17 1743 3 P N Withers 37 3714 1,43511864 1,6172,333280 256 1 The figures for benefits in kind paid to Harriet Green, Mark Whiteling and Laurence Bain include, for each of them, a cash allowance in place of a Company car.
No expense allowances chargeable to UK income tax were paid.
Harriet Green, Mark Whiteling and Laurence Bain are all provided with life and health insurance and Harriet Greens benefits in kind in 2009 include certain costs arising from the settlement of Harriets terms of employment.
The cost of these benefits is included in the figure for benefits.
2 Cary Nolan and John Roques retired from the Board on 17 June 2008.
3 Dennis Millard and Paul Withers joined the Board on 1 September 2007.
75 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors interests audited The beneficial interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the financial year are set out below, together with a note of those interests as at 15 April 2009, being within one month of the date of the Companys Notice of Annual General Meeting.
In addition to the above beneficial interests in the Companys ordinary shares, the Executive Directors are regarded for Companies Act purposes as being interested in 2,886,004 ordinary shares held by the Premier Farnell Executive Trust.
All employees including Executive Directors are potential beneficiaries of the trust.
It is not anticipated that any employee or Executive Director will be entitled to receive from the trust a greater number of shares than that to which they are entitled on exercise of awards made to them under the PSP.
The other options listed above are executive options which are subject to the performance conditions described below.
2 The market price of the shares as at the date of exercise on 2 June 2008 was 165p resulting in a gain of 1,458.
The rules of the ESOS allow annual awards to be made, with a maximum grant equal to 100 per cent of the individuals annual salary.
Exercise of options granted under the scheme is subject to a performance condition.
This condition is that the growth in the Companys adjusted EPS over the three consecutive financial years starting with the year of grant exceeds the growth in RPI over the same period by at least 9 per cent.
At this level of performance half of the options granted are exercisable.
Exercise of all options granted requires that the Companys EPS growth exceeds RPI over the period by at least 15 per cent, with a sliding scale for performance between 9 per cent and 15 per cent.
The rules of the scheme approved by shareholders in 2003 provided that, if the performance condition was not met over this three-year period, options could also be exercised if the Companys EPS growth exceeded RPI by a minimum of 12 per cent over the four financial years starting with the year of grant.
The Committee decided to remove this re-testing provision with effect from 13 March 2006 and it does not apply to any options granted after that date.
Options granted under earlier schemes operated by the Company remain outstanding.
Executive options granted under such schemes after 13 March 2001 may not be exercised unless the growth in the Companys EPS over a period of three consecutive financial years exceeds the growth in RPI over the same period by at least nine per cent.
The Company has met the performance condition for options awarded up to and during January 2003 and for options awarded from March 2004 up to and during October 2006.
With the exception of the options granted in 2006 which do not become exercisable until October 2009 these options are now exercisable.
No price was paid for any option.
There were no variations to the terms and conditions of any Directors options during the year.
The market price of the Companys shares at 1 February 2009 was 135.5p 3 February 2008: 150.5p and the range during the year was 118p 203.5p.
76 Remuneration Report continued Performance share plan audited Interests of Directors in the plan are: Market price At at date of At End of 3 February award 1 February performance 2008 Awarded pence Vested Lapsed 2009 period H Green 195,599 204.5 195,599 April 2009 284,360211.0284,360 June 2010 413,946155.82413,946 April 2011 L Bain 134,474 204.5 134,474 April 2009 175,594211.0175,594 June 2010 250,288155.82250,288 April 2011 M Whiteling 175,592 211.0 175,592 June 2010 250,288155.82250,288 April 2011 The conditions for the vesting of an award made under the plan since the Companys AGM in June 2007 are described under the heading Performance Share Plan on page 70.
For awards made prior to June 2007, the main performance condition compares the growth of the Companys TSR share price growth and reinvested dividends over a three-year period to that of the companies in the FTSE mid-250 Index excluding investment trusts.
The Companys ranking among the comparator companies determines the percentage of shares which a participant can acquire.
No shares may be acquired where the Companys ranking is below median and, to acquire the full number of shares awarded, the Company must rank in the top quartile of the comparator group.
Between these two points, vesting is on a straight-line basis, with 20 per cent of any award vesting where the Companys performance is at the median.
There were no variations made to the terms and conditions of any award during the year.
Restricted share plan audited As part of the remuneration package offered by the Company to secure Harriet Greens services, the Company established a restricted share plan, of which Harriet is the sole participant.
Two conditional awards of shares were made under the plan, one of which was exercised in March 2007 and the other being detailed below.
This second tranche vested on 27 March 2008 and the shares were transferred to Harriet.
Benefits under the restricted share plan are not pensionable.
Market price At at date of At 3 February award 1 February 2008 Awarded pence Vested Lapsed 2009 Date of vesting H Green 51,461 211.5 51,461 27 March 2008 No performance condition attached to this award.
77 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Performance graph The graph below shows the total shareholder return for a holding of the Companys ordinary shares for the five financial years of the Company of which the year to 1 February 2009 is the last.
This is compared to the total shareholder return for a hypothetical holding in the FTSE mid-250 Index excluding investment trusts.
This was chosen as it is the index of which the Company is a constituent.
Total shareholder return is the growth in value of a share plus the value of dividends paid, assuming that the dividends are reinvested in the Companys shares on the day on which they are paid.
Total shareholder return Premier Farnell FTSE 250 Index excl.
Investment Trusts 250 200 150 100 50 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 This graph shows the value, by 1 February 2009, of 100 invested in Premier Farnell over the last five financial years compared with 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
The Companys TSR performance for the financial year to 1 February 2009 ranks it 35th among the 250 companies making up the FTSE 250 as at 1 February 2009, graded by reference to the relative performance of each such companys TSR over the same period.
This ranking is calculated by allocating to each such company a notional score of 100 per cent at the beginning of the year and by measuring the percentage increase or decrease in performance of the TSR of each such company over the one year period.
Elements of report subject to audit The information above under the headings Directors remuneration, Directors interests, Share options, Performance share plan and Restricted share plan is auditable.
All other information provided in the Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Approved by the Board on 17 April 2009 Signed on behalf of the Board by Paul Withers Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Values
