40 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 41 Report of the Directors continued Report on Directors remuneration This report on Directors remuneration has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Research and development Groups Regulations 2008 and satisfies the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
A resolution to The Group maintains in-house facilities for research and development in the United Kingdom, Poland, Indonesia, West Africa and approve the report will be proposed at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
Australia: in addition, research and development is sub-contracted to approved external organisations.
Currently all such expenditure is charged against profit in the year in which it is incurred, as it does not meet the criteria for capitalisation under IAS The table on Directors remuneration and sections on the PZ Cussons Plc Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme, the PZ Cussons 38 Intangible assets.
Plc Executive Share Option Scheme, the PZ Cussons Plc Performance Share Plan and Directors pension benefits constitute audited information.
Payment of suppliers The Group does not follow any code or statement on payment practice.
It is the responsibility of the management of each Remuneration Committee operating unit within the Group to agree appropriate terms of business with suppliers upon entering into binding contracts and to The Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the adhere to these payment terms provided the relevant goods or services have been supplied in accordance with contractual remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The Committee is also responsible for determining within such policy the obligations.
The creditor days are disclosed in note 19 of the consolidated financial statements.
remuneration packages of individual Executive Directors including the Chairman of the Company and the Company Secretary and for approving the design and operation of all share-based incentive schemes for the Executive Directors and senior Employment of disabled persons management.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and during 2008 09 met on five occasions.
The Committees terms of During the year the Group has maintained its policy of providing equal opportunities for the appropriate employment, training and reference are available on the Companys website www.
Further information regarding the Companys policies in this respect are set out within the report on page 96.
The members of the Committee during the year were Mr J T J Steel Committee Chairman, Prof J A Arnold, Mr S J N Heale and Mr D W Lewis.
Each is a Non-executive Director of the Company and all are independent of management and have no conflicts of Employee information interest or any day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is determined by The Group recognises the benefits of keeping employees informed of the progress of the business and of involving them in their the Board of Directors.
No Director is involved in any decisions on the level and composition of his own remuneration.
The methods of achieving such involvement are different in each company and country and have been developed over the years by local management working with local employees in ways which suit their particular needs and The Committee was advised during the year in relation to the PZ Cussons Plc Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme, the PZ environment, with the active encouragement of the parent organisation.
Cussons Plc Executive Share Option Scheme and the PZ Cussons Plc Performance Share Plan initially by Hewitt New Bridge Street Associates and, from December 2008 onwards, by Deloitte LLP which also advised the Committee in respect of salary Auditor levels and Directors pension benefits.
Details of the PZ Cussons Plc Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme, the PZ Cussons Plc  LLP has signified its willingness to continue in office as Auditor to the Company and, in accordance with Executive Share Option Scheme and the PZ Cussons Plc Performance Share Plan are set out on pages 42 to 43.
Neither Deloitte section 485 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for its appointment will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General LLP nor Hewitt New Bridge Street Associates provide or have during the year provided any other material services to the Group.
During the year, the Committee has consulted the Chairman on issues where his experience and knowledge have been of benefit Enhanced business review to its deliberations and he attends meetings by invitation.
The Chief Executive has also been consulted on proposals relating to A review of the functional performance of the Group is provided on pages 10 to 22. the remuneration of members of the Groups senior management team and he too attends meetings by invitation.
Neither the Chairman nor the Chief Executive attend when the matters under consideration concern their own personal remuneration.
The Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and attends Committee meetings save where his own remuneration is The Groups business activities, financial condition, results of operations could be affected by a variety of risks or uncertainties.
These are summarised in the Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 24 to 25.
Policy on Executive Directors remuneration Annual General Meeting The Groups policy is that the remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors should: The Companys 2009 Annual General Meeting will be held at the Lowry Hotel, 50 Dearmans Place, Chapel Wharf, Manchester provide a competitive level of remuneration against companies of similar size and complexity: M3 5LH at 12 noon on 5 October 2009.
The resolutions which will be proposed at the 2009 Annual General Meeting are set out be sufficient to recruit, motivate and retain executives of the calibre required: in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting which accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
be aligned with the enhancement of sustainable shareholder value: be structured such that an appropriate proportion of the remuneration package links reward to corporate and individual Purchase of own shares performance over the short, medium and long-term: and No shares were purchased during the period from 1 June 2008 to 28 July 2009 other than the acquisitions undertaken by the recognise the long-term ambitions of the Company.
The principal elements of each Executive Directors remuneration package comprise: Directors Statement as to disclosure of information to the Auditor basic salary and benefits: In the case of each of the persons who were Directors of the Company at the date when this report was approved: pension benefits: so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by the Companies Act 2006 of which participation in the PZ Cussons Plc Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme : and the Companys Auditor is unaware participation in the PZ Cussons Plc Performance Share Plan the Performance Share Plan.
each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
In designing an appropriate incentive structure for the Executive Directors and other senior management, the Committee seeks to set challenging performance criteria which are aligned with the Groups business strategy and the enhancement of sustained This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provision of section 418 2 of Companies Act 2006. shareholder value.
The Committee is also mindful of the need to avoid inadvertently encouraging risky or irresponsible behaviour including behaviour which could raise environmental, social or governance issues.
By order of the Board of Directors Basic salary and benefits Following a change in policy in 2008 09 Executive Directors salaries are normally reviewed annually with effect from 1 June each year.
Reviews take account of various factors including individual performance and remuneration levels in companies of similar size and complexity.
No generalised changes to Executive Directors salaries were made during the year, the last review having taken effect on 1 Mr S P Plant January 2008.
However, Mr C G Davis basic salary was increased from 245,000 to 265,000 per annum on his promotion to Company Secretary Group Commercial Director with effect from 1 December 2008.
In addition, Mr A G Calders salary was reduced to 172,500 per 28 July 2009 annum with effect from the same date reflecting his move to a part-time role.
Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
