DirectorsReport Governance Remuneration report Driving business performance and shareholder value The key purpose of the Committee is to ensure that the remuneration structure supports the Companys strategy and that we are able to attract, retain and motivate the very best calibre executives while aligning their interests with shareholders.
Dr Peter Fellner Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Introduction Report of the Remuneration Committee The current economic environment has brought executive The following Report of the Remuneration Committee has been remuneration into the spotlight to a degree rarely seen before.
approved by the Board for submission to shareholders.
However, I am pleased to report that QinetiQs remuneration policies It covers the remuneration of Directors and includes specific continue to meet the three tests that we impose upon them: disclosures relating to their emoluments, shares and other interests.
Incentivising key executives and managers The report also describes the share-based incentive plans available Driving superior performance in both the short and long term to Executive Directors and to other employees.
This report has been Alignment with the interests of shareholders.
prepared and, where appropriate audited, in accordance with the requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations The Group performed strongly during the past year, but this was partly 2002, and the FSA Listing Rules.
assisted by a significant shift in exchange rates.
The Company therefore fell just short of the target threshold for paying out under its short-term Membership incentive arrangements, since the performance criteria for Annual The Committee is composed of the following independent Bonus grants are assessed on a constant currency basis.
Non-executive Directors: Nevertheless, we continue to value excellence and, where appropriate, Dr Peter Fellner to reward it.
Therefore targeted incentive payments will be made to a Sir David Lees small number of employees across a range of levels within the business.
Noreen Doyle Looking forward, we are keen to ensure that performance-related The full Terms of Reference of the Committee can be found on earnings remain just that, and we will take into account the level of the the QinetiQ website www.
Copies are also available share price when determining the levels of long-term incentive awards on request.
The Committee will be balancing a desire to incentivise employees appropriately with a need to ensure that any value delivered Governance by these awards is proportionate to the underlying performance.
The Committee is chaired by Dr Peter Fellner and all of its members are independent Non-executive Directors.
In the financial year 2008 09, the Committee met five times.
During the year, the Committee received advice from its appointed independent advisors, Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
Deloitte provided other consulting services during the year to QinetiQ, but did not provide Dr Peter Fellner, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee advice on executive remuneration matters other than to the 21 May 2009 Committee.
Towers Perrin and PwC Monks provide market information.
The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group HR Director and Group Head of Reward also provided advice to the Committee.
No employee of QinetiQ is permitted to participate in discussions about their own remuneration.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements Total rewards are achieved through the attainment of stretching Activities performance targets based on measures which are consistent with During 2008 09 the Committee meetings covered a number of the interests of shareholders.
topics including: Transparent disclosure of remuneration will be provided to the April Approval of Executive Directors FY08 bonuses Companys shareholders.
FY09 performance targets May Approval of Executive Directors salary reviews The total remuneration levels of the Executive Directors are reviewed Directors Remuneration report annually by the Committee, taking into account: Approval of Executive team salary reviews and FY08 bonuses Performance of the executive: Competitive market practice and remuneration levels: and July Approval of Performance Share Plan, Restricted The general economic environment.
Stock Unit and Share Option awards September Review of Executive team total compensation Base salary Update on pay trends Executive Directors base salaries are reviewed annually on the same Review of Executive team Shareholdings basis as all other employees.
Salary changes in June 2008 reflected January Review of Remuneration Committee Remit market pay levels, together with Company and personal performance.
Vesting of 2006 options External remuneration consultants provide data about market salary Review of comparator group levels.
For market comparison purposes, account is taken of company type, sector and measures of company size in terms of both market  policy capitalisation and turnover.
The Committee aims to maintain a remuneration policy, consistent with the Companys business objectives, which: No salary increase is proposed for Executive Directors in respect of 2009 10.
Attracts, retains and motivates individuals of high calibre: and Is responsive to both Company and personal performance.
Benefits The remuneration policy is built on the following philosophy: Benefits may include a pension or contribution in lieu, car allowance, Remuneration packages are structured in order to support health insurance, life insurance and membership of the Groups business strategy whilst conforming to current best practice.
employee Share Incentive Plan which is open to all UK employees.
The current structure of remuneration excluding pension for Executive Directors under this policy is illustrated below: Fixed reward Performance-related reward Short term Long term Annual bonus 20% Performance share plan 40% Base salary 40% Benefits Deferred annual bonus Each element of an Executive Directors remuneration package aligns and supports the achievement of different Company objectives.
This alignment is illustrated below: Component of remuneration Objective Performance metrics Annual Salary Recognise skills, experience and responsibility Not subject to performance, but increases are based on individual performance and market data Annual Bonus and Deferred Drive achievement of annual business goals Operating profit Annual Bonus Provide linkage between short-term and long-term incentives Underlying EPS Provide a co-investment opportunity Operating cash flow Provide increased alignment with shareholders Turnover Performance Share Plan Drive earnings growth, share price and dividend growth EPS growth Align with shareholders interests Total shareholder return Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in All-Employee Share plans.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 57 DirectorsReport Governance Remuneration report Where an individual participates in the DAB and also receives an award Annual bonus under the Performance Share Plan PSP, they will not receive share Executive Directors participate in an annual cash bonus plan which awards which, in aggregate, exceed 150% of their base salary in any is non-pensionable.
Bonuses are linked to Group performance targets one year.
and modified for performance against personal objectives.
The bonus potential and bonus earned in 2008 09 is laid out below, expressed Long-term incentives for Executive Directors as a percentage of salary.
The objective is to align the rewards of executives with returns The plan is measured, on a constant exchange rate basis, against to shareholders by focusing on increasing the share price over the four elements: medium to long term.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in both the PSP and the DAB Plan.
Operating Profit Underlying EPS These arrangements are the principal means for long-term Operating cash flow incentivisation of the Executive Directors and the direct reports of the Turnover CEO.
The Committee considered potential performance conditions and determined that the conditions set out below were appropriate to In the event that the key measure of operating profit is less than 95% target, on a constant exchange rate basis, any bonus payable is incentivise the long-term creation of shareholder value.
subject to the judgement and evaluation of the Committee, even if Performance Share Plan PSP other elements of the targets are met or exceeded.
Provided the profit threshold is met, for each measure the minimum level of performance is Awards of performance shares were made to Executive Directors and a limited number of other senior executives in July 2008 or on 95% of target.
Thereafter, the bonus increases proportionately between 95% of the target and 110% of target 120% for operating cash flow.
Share awards are contingent on meeting pre-determined performance criteria.
Individual participants award levels are The corporate bonus may then be adjusted based on the achievement determined by the Committee annually, with due regard to business of personal objectives.
During 2008 09, target operating profit was not achieved when Executive Directors are eligible to receive awards with a face value calculated on a constant exchange rate basis, and therefore Annual of up to 100% of base salary and other executives up to 75% of Bonuses have not been awarded to the large majority of potentially base salary.
Awards are earned based on an equal weighting of relative total On Target Maximum 2008 09 Actual % of Salary payment payment payment shareholder return TSR performance and absolute underlying earnings per share EPS growth.
Graham Love 50% 100% 0% David Mellors 50% 100% 11% The EPS performance criteria for PSP is the same as that applied to the DAB outlined above.
The payment to David Mellors is in accordance with our policy of making The TSR part of the award is measured against the constituents targeted payments to a small number of employees across the Group, of a comparator group of companies: to recognise exceptional individual performance.
Babcock International plc IMI plc Deferred Annual Bonus DAB Plan BAE Systems plc Invensys plc The Deferred Annual Bonus DAB Plan aligns the interests of BBA Aviation plc Logica plc executives with shareholders and aids retention of key individuals by Bodycote International plc Meggitt plc ensuring that executives are incentivised to take part of their annual Capita Group plc The Morgan Crucible Company plc bonus awards in shares rather than cash.
Chemring Group plc Rolls-Royce plc Under this arrangement executives may voluntarily defer up to 50% of Cobham plc Serco plc their bonus into QinetiQ shares.
Executive Directors typically have a Cookson Group plc Tomkins plc mandatory deferral of 30% of any bonus payable.
Any deferred bonus Detica plc Ultra Electronics plc will be matched based on EPS performance up to a maximum match of 100% of the deferred element.
Enodis plc VT Group plc FKI plc Victrex Group plc The EPS element is earned only if EPS growth, measured over three GKN plc WS Atkins plc years, exceeds defined targets.
EPS must grow by at least 22.5% to Halma plc trigger any vesting, at which point 25% of the award will vest.
Vesting increases pro rata to EPS growth up to a maximum of 100% of the The TSR element is earned only if relative performance is at least at award vesting at 52% EPS growth as illustrated below.
median against this comparator group over a three-year performance Awards are in the form of matching shares delivered after three years, period, calculated by an independent third party.
The graph below subject to the achievement of EPS-based performance conditions.
illustrates the TSR performance condition: 100% 100% 3 Year EPS 25% 30% Perf vs Comparators Absolute Growth 22.5% 52% Median Upper quartile EPS performance TSR performance 58 www.
com Award vesting % Award vesting % Business Review Governance Financial Statements Performance graph Pensions The graph below compares the Companys TSR over the period from The Groups policy is to offer all UK employees membership of the flotation to 31 March 2009 compared to the FTSE 250 and FTSE 350 QinetiQ Pension Scheme, as described in note 39 to the financial Aerospace & Defence indices over the same period.
Executives whose benefits are likely to exceed the for comparison as QinetiQ is a constituent of both indices.
Lifetime Allowance may opt out of the QinetiQ Pension Plan.
In such cases, the individual will be paid a salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
Relative total shareholder return 150 Contributions to the Defined Contribution section of the QinetiQ Pension Scheme were as follows: 130 2009 2008 110 Executive Directors 90 David Mellors 36,846 Former Directors 70 Doug Webb 10,500 59,545 50 47,346 59,545 9 Feb 06 31 Mar 06 31 Mar 07 31 Mar 08 31 Mar 09 QinetiQ FTSE 250 FTSE 350 Aerospace and Defence Graham Love receives contributions in lieu of a pension.
 The information about Directors remuneration and Directors interests on pages 59 to 61 has been audited.
Where Executive Directors were appointed or resigned during the year, but have been employees of QinetiQ for the whole year, the sums shown reflect the elements of their remuneration over the period of their directorship.
b Includes car allowance, health insurance benefits and payments in lieu of pension.
c David Mellors was appointed as a Director on 20 August 2008. d Doug Webb resigned as a Director with effect from 30 May 2008.
Personal shareholding policy External appointments The Committee believes that a powerful way to align Executives QinetiQ allows its Executive Directors to broaden their knowledge interests with those of shareholders is for the Executives to build and experience by becoming Non-executive directors of other up and retain a personal holding in QinetiQ shares.
Appointments are approved by the Board or the Committee on the basis that there is no conflict of interest or The CEO and CFO are required to hold the equivalent of one times deterioration in the Executives Directors performance.
Fees are their base salary in QinetiQ shares.
David Mellors, having joined on normally retained by the individual.
During the year ended 31 March 20 August 2008, has been given four years to build up such a 2009, none of the Executive Directors held such an appointment at shareholding.
The Chief Executive meets the Committees guideline a public company.
Direct reports of the CEO should hold the equivalent of 50% of their base salary in shares.
These can be accumulated over a four-year period following appointment.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 59 DirectorsReport Governance Remuneration report Directorsterms and conditions The information in this section has been audited.
Service agreements for the Executive and the Non-executive Directors are reviewed annually and amended as appropriate.
Notice to be given by the Company Date of most recent Service Agreement Date of appointment Executives Graham Love 12 months 1 December 2005 February 2003 a David Mellors 12 months 20 May 2008 August 2008 Non-executives Sir John Chisholm 1 October 2006 February 2003 Sir David Lees 16 February 2006 August 2005 Nick Luff 16 February 2006 June 2004 Peter Fellner 16 February 2006 September 2004 Noreen Doyle 16 February 2006 October 2005 Colin Balmer 16 February 2006 February 2003 Admiral Ed Giambastiani 1 February 2008 February 2008 Former Directors Doug Webb 12 months 1 October 2005 September 2005 Notes a David Mellors was appointed on 20 August 2008.
QinetiQs policy is that Executive Directors should have contracts with Share awards for executives and employees a rolling term providing for a maximum of one years notice.
The Committee also oversees arrangements for share-based reward Consequently, no Executive Director has a contractual notice period in arrangements in respect of managers and the wider workforce.
In the event of early termination, this ensures addition to PSP, the Company also operates the following executive share that compensation is restricted to a maximum of 12 months basic plans, although Executive Directors do not participate in either plan: salary and benefits.
The Committee will generally require mitigation to QinetiQ Share Option Scheme reduce the compensation payable to a departing Executive Director.
Restricted Stock Units Non-executive Directorsterms, conditions and fees The Company also operates a Share Incentive Plan for all employees The Chairman reviews the fees of the Non-executive Directors and in the UK and Australia.
makes recommendations to the Board.
Non-executive Directors receive additional fees as agreed by the Board for the chairmanship of Board QinetiQ Share Option Scheme QSOS committees to take account of the additional responsibilities of the Awards were made during the year under QSOS.
The Chairmans fees are reviewed by the Senior Independent EMEA and QNA to align the interests of senior managers who are not Non-executive Director who makes recommendations to the Board.
eligible for PSP with the interests of shareholders, by focusing on share The level of fees paid in UK organisations of a similar size and price growth over a 3 to 3.5 year period.
Awards are principally subject complexity to QinetiQ is considered in setting remuneration policy for to meeting growth targets on an underlying Earnings Per Share basis.
The fees are neither performance related nor Annual awards up to a face value of 300% of salary can be granted.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in bonus, profit sharing or employee share schemes.
Restricted Stock Units RSU Current fee structures for Non-executive Directors are shown below.
RSU awards are used in QinetiQ North America in conjunction with 2008 09 Fees QSOS.
The RSU awards vest evenly over a four-year period.
Half of the award is subject to time-based vesting criteria and half to organic Non-executive Chairman 215,000 profit growth of QNA.
Organic profit is required to grow by a minimum Basic fee for UK Non-executive Director 40,000 of 5% for the performance-linked awards to vest.
Maximum vesting Basic fee for US resident Non-executive Director $100,000 of 12.5% of the award occurs at 15% organic profit growth.
Additional fee for chairing a Committee 7,000 The granting of awards is subject to business performance, balanced with the need to attract, retain and motivate high calibre employees.
Additional fee to Deputy Chairman Senior Independent 10,000 Non-executive Director Dilution limits The Committee has determined that with regard to new issue or An additional fee of $4,000 is payable to US resident Non-executive treasury shares, no more than 10% of the Companys issued share Directors when they attend Board Meetings in the UK.
capital will be used under all of the Companys share schemes in The next bi-annual review of fees will take place in October 2009. accordance with ABI guidelines.
The dilution as at 31 March 2009 Non-executive Directors contracts are renewed on a rolling twelvewas significantly below this 10% level, and below 5% in respect of month basis subject to reappointment at the Annual General executive schemes.
In addition, the Board intends to continue to satisfy Meeting.
There are no provisions in their contracts for compensation a proportion of awards with purchased shares held in the employee on early termination.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements Directorsinterests The interests of the Directors in office at 31 March 2009 in the shares of QinetiQ Group plc at that date were as follows: Interests of Directors in office as at 31 March 2009 including shares held under SIP and DAB Number 1p Number 1p Number 1p Ord Shares held Ord Shares held Ord Shares held at 1 April 2008 at 31 March 2009 at 21 May 2009 Executives Graham Love 4,930,627 5,085,568 5,085,819 a David Mellors 249 Non-executives b Sir John Chisholm 3,731,808 11,501,016 11,501,016 Sir David Lees 63,000 73,000 73,000 Nick Luff 27,000 50,000 50,000 Dr Peter Fellner 17,000 17,000 17,000 Noreen Doyle 17,000 17,000 17,000 Colin Balmer Admiral Ed Giambastiani a David Mellors shares reflect his participation in the SIP plan in April and May 2009. b The increase in the interest of Sir John Chisholm reflects the reacquisition of shares following a Capital Gains Tax planning exercise in 2008.
d Awards to David Mellors were based on a market price of 198.5p, as at 7 August 2008.
The interests in the table above are subject to the performance conditions described in note 34.
The price of a QinetiQ share at 31 March 2009 was 132.25p.
The highest and lowest prices of a QinetiQ share during the year ended 31 March 2009 were 228.25p and 128.50p respectively.
Directorsinterest in the All-Employee Share Incentive Plan Partnership shares Matching shares Dividend shares Interest as at acquired appropriated allocated Interest as at 1 April 2008 during year during year during year 31 March 2009 Sir John Chisholm 260 6 266 Graham Love 2,377 834 278 73 3,562 David Mellors Acquired as an Executive Director QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 61
