90-107 Governance R 3 25 10 8:42 AM Page 7 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K THE REMUNERATION REPORT The remuneration committee is committed to the principles of accountability and transparency, and ensuring that remuneration arrangements align reward with performance.
The directors remuneration report has been prepared by the remuneration committee and has been approved by the board for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The group has voluntarily complied with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
This report sets out the companys current executive remuneration policy.
Any developments or changes will be disclosed in future remuneration reports.
The remuneration tables, which are subject to audit, are provided on pages 98 and 101.
SUMMARISED REMUNERATION STRUCTURE Element Policy Details Base salary Competitive base salaries to attract high calibre Benchmarked against a suitable group of executives.
comparative companies from the FTSE 100 Based on market data, personal performance, and remuneration information of peers in the specific role of the individual and relevant mining industry.
The remuneration committee reviews salaries The only element of fixed remuneration.
Benefits and pension are only received via salary sacrifice.
Annual bonus Designed to encourage and reward superior The performance measures applicable to the CEO performance and contributions to the companys and CFO are interrelated and set out on success and creation of shareholder value.
page 99 and include EBITDA, earnings per Reward is linked to both the executives and the share, annual production efficiency, growth companys performance on a range of financial in reserves, cost control and individual strategic and strategic metrics.
Long term Rewards sustainable long term returns to Awards are based on the companys TSR shareholders.
performance against the HSBC Global Gold incentive Awards of shares are made under the Mining Index representative of the gold mining shareholder approved Restricted Share Scheme industry across 21 countries.
which are subject to TSR performance.
Vesting is subject to TSR performance exceeding Awards made periodically and not necessarily the index.
There is no vesting if the individuals every year.
performance appraisal rating is less than a three Awards generally vest in one-third tranches on a five point scale.
Executive directors may elect to sacrifice up Retirement to 20% of their base salary as contribution to a benefits defined contribution pension provident fund.
No further pension contributions are made by the company.
Other benefits Main benefits funded from base salary.
Executive directors can elect to receive certain benefits, such as participation in a medical aid scheme or group life insurance.
These are funded out of the executives base salary.
Where appropriate to the business or jurisdiction, the board may authorise other benefits such as the provision of security services while travelling.
Service Notice periods of six months.
Termination payments based on salary.
contracts RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 96 Composite 90-107 Governance R 3 25 10 8:42 AM Page 8 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K In November, the 2009 10 salary review, draft THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE remuneration report and remuneration timetable were The role and composition of the committee considered.
The committees responsibilities are set out in its charter, which can be found on the companys website.
These REMUNERATION POLICY AND STRUCTURE include: The committee recognises that the company operates in a Remuneration policy and its specific application to the global environment and that its performance depends on the CEO and other executives reporting to the CEO quality of its people.
When determining executive remuneration executive committee as well as the general application policies, the committee takes into account pay practices to all our employees and those of our subsidiaries: across the company.
The remuneration policy is reviewed The determination of levels of reward to the CEO and periodically to ensure that it remains appropriate for the other members of the executive committee: company over time.
Providing guidance to the chairman of the board on evaluating the performance of the CEO, management The key principles of the companys remuneration policy for development plans and succession planning: and senior executives are to: Effective communication with shareholders on the Provide competitive rewards to attract executives of remuneration policy and the committees work on behalf the highest calibre and to reflect the flexibility of the board.
and mobility required to work in the companys key operational jurisdictions West, Central and During the financial year 2009, the members of the committee East Africa : were Messrs Norborne P Cole Jr chairman, Robert I Israel Apply strategically significant and demanding stepped down in May 2009, Dr Karl Voltaire and performance criteria, including both financial and nonMr Christopher L Coleman.
Biographies of these directors financial measures of performance: are shown on page 7 of this annual report.
The current Link a significant proportion of pay to the individual members of the committee are independent non-executive executives and the companys performance to directors in line with the independence requirements of the encourage and reward superior performance: Combined Code.
Ensure remuneration arrangements are internally equitable to support the companys culture and the Remuneration committee meetings deployment of executives around our business: and The committee met five times in the 2009 financial year, and Limit severance payments on termination to preattendance is set out in the following table.
The committee established contractual arrangements that do not meets regularly with the chairman of the board and the CEO commit the company to making unjustified or inflated who, at the invitation of the committee, attended all five payments.
meetings except where matters associated with his own remuneration were considered.
The company secretary The above principles have been put into practice by providing attended all five meetings and in addition to taking meeting a simple remuneration policy comprising basic salary, minutes, provided information to the committee on corporate annual bonus and a Restricted Share Scheme measuring governance guidelines as they affect the remuneration performance over the longer term.
The human resources executive provided information and advice relating to directors and senior COMPANY PERFORMANCE DURING 2009 managements remuneration, including analysis of published During 2009, the company performed strongly.
Some of the remuneration surveys and comparator group remuneration years highlights include: data.
During the year, the committee also received advice Expansion of our flagship operation in Loulo and from the companys lawyers at Ashurst in the United Kingdom, completion of the Moto acquisition.
Fulbright & Jaworski in the United States and Ogiers in Jersey.
A 79% increase in profits from US$47 million in 2008 to US$84.3 million in 2009.
Remuneration committee agenda items Approval of a 30% increase in annual dividends Remuneration committee agenda items included the following: US$0.17 per share.
In February, the 2009 remuneration report was approved Maintenance of a strong balance sheet with and there was a review of the CEOs bonus and basic US$590 million in cash and no net debt.
salary, as well as a review of the CFOs performance.
Increase in attributable reserves and resources per 2009 bonus parameters and proposed awards under share of 29% and 32% respectively.
the Restricted Share Scheme were also considered.
Share price growth of 81% and outperformance of the In May, the restructuring of the committee was discussed HSBC global gold index by 148%.
following changes to its members.
There was discussion surrounding 2009 strategic outputs for executive EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION directors and the executive development and succession Structure of executive director remuneration planning schedule.
Total remuneration is benchmarked against a comparable In July, there was a review of the CFO remuneration group of FTSE 100 companies as well as individual competitor and strategic outputs, and an issue of restricted shares mining companies.
and share options to selected employees.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE Number of meetings Members Appointed Resigned attended NP Cole Jr Chairman 1 August 2006 5 5 RI Israel 15 July 1997 5 May 2009 3 3 K Voltaire 29 April 2008 5 5 CL Coleman 2 February 2009 3 3 RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 97 Composite 90-107 Governance R 3 25 10 8:42 AM Page 9 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K THE REMUNERATION REPORT continued The remuneration of the executive directors comprises: Variable remuneration Basic salary and benefits fixed remuneration.
Variable remuneration represents the major proportion of the An annual bonus opportunity.
individuals remuneration package, provided that targeted Participation in the Restricted Share Scheme, measuring performance is achieved.
performance over the longer term.
Variable remuneration comprises: The total executive directors remuneration for the year Short term incentives: these are delivered annually ended 31 December 2009 was US$9 271 980 2008: under the annual bonus scheme.
Long term incentives: executive directors are periodically awarded restricted shares which vest in one third Details of salary, pension and benefits are provided in the tranches over three years, subject to TSR performance.
Details of the annual and long term incentive schemes currently used for executive Annual bonus directors are provided in the paragraph headed Variable Executive directors are eligible to receive an annual bonus, remuneration.
subject to the achievement of stretching performance criteria.
The performance criteria for 2010 outlined below focus on Fixed remuneration Fixed remuneration comprises a basic salary, from which achieving challenging strategic and financial targets that executive directors can elect to contribute into a defined contribute to the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
contribution pension scheme, and pay for certain other The committee may make adjustments to the criteria used benefits such as medical aid.
Fixed remuneration normally for measuring performance on an annual basis taking into represents less than 50 per cent of the individuals account the strategic objectives of the company for the year.
remuneration package based on target performance and expected values of share awards.
For 2009, the CEO and CFOs annual bonuses differ in terms of performance metrics, as described below.
For 2010, the Base salary CFOs performance metrics have been changed to align Base salaries are determined by the committee, taking into them with the approach adopted for the CEO, albeit that the account the performance of the individual and pay practice specific metrics are different to reflect each executives key amongst a comparable group of FTSE 100 companies as drivers in the business.
well as individual companies in the mining industry.
When setting base salaries, the committee also takes into Annual bonus for the CEO consideration executives personal commitment to extensive Dr DM Bristows annual bonus will be subject to the travel and time spent at the companys operations overseas.
This is considered critical in effective management of the following performance criteria: companys business.
The base salaries of the executive directors at December PERFORMANCE CRITERIA 2009 were as follows: Dr DM Bristow: US$1 250 000 per annum.
Measurement Mr GP Shuttleworth: GBP287 136 per annum.
Retirement benefits Annual group financial Executive directors can elect to sacrifice up to 20 per cent performance EBITDA of their base salary to contribute to a defined contribution provident fund.
The company does not make any contribution Production efficiency Production in ounces to the fund.
measured against budgeted ounces of production.
Other benefits Sustainable growth Replacement or Executive directors can elect to receive other benefits including, of reserves growth in reserves is medical aid and group life insurance.
All such benefits are calculated on a three funded out of the executives base salary and are nonyear rolling average in pensionable.
Where appropriate, executive directors may be arrears.
provided with other benefits such as security services for executives while travelling for work, social club fees to facilitate Individual strategic output Agreed at annual the entertainment of business associates and professional performance targets strategic planning association membership costs.
All such benefits authorised review and approved by by the board are paid for by the company and end when the the board.
employee leaves the companys service, for whatever reason.
As disclosed in the 2008 Annual Report, US$1.725 million of the 2008 bonus was not accrued in the 2008 year, but subsequently expensed in 2009: US$1.5 million of which was payable to Dr DM Bristow and US$225 000 payable to Mr GP Shuttleworth.
Other payments relate to the value of the restricted shares awarded to the executive directors, and in 2008, included a one off payment of US$2 million to Dr DM Bristow as part of his new contract entered into during that year.
The total remuneration disclosed in the 2008 annual report was therefore US$12 428 613.
The total remuneration of US$9 271 980 stated above for 2009 excluded the 2008 bonus of US$1.725 million paid in 2009.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 98 Composite 90-107 Governance R 3 25 10 8:42 AM Page 10 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K The maximum bonus payable to the CEO is 300% of The ratio of increase in reserves to depletion was base salary for exceptional performance.
150% of 4.45 which was considered to be outstanding base salary is payable for achieving target performance.
No bonus is payable for combined performance below The CEO achieved his strategic output targets 80% of target.
The committee considers performance at an exceptional level.
against each of the metrics in the round including EBITDA growth in the year was 46%.
whether one or more are very significantly above or The annual group production was within 0.5% below the target level.
Annual bonus for the CFO Chief financial officer Mr GP Shuttleworths annual bonus will be subject to In determining the bonus for the CFO for 2009, the the following performance metrics: committee took into account: Share price gain of US$41.90 105% growth PERFORMANCE CRITERIA over a notional shareholding of 33 300 which resulted in a notional output of US$1.4 million.
Measurement This was underpinned by meeting target performance against the strategic and individual performance targets set.
Annual group financial performance EPS Long term incentives The companys policy is to incentivise executives over the Cost control Cash costs per long term by awarding shares under the Restricted Share ounce controlled Scheme.
Neither Dr DM Bristow nor Mr GP Shuttleworth below targeted participate in the companys share option scheme.
Restricted Share Scheme was approved by shareholders on 28 July 2008.
Awards are made periodically, generally Individual strategic output Agreed at annual performance targets strategic planning not every year, at the discretion of the committee.
review and approved The companys policy is that the shares awarded are normally by the board.
expressed as a specific number of shares, rather than a percentage of salary.
The CEO received an award of 40 000 The maximum bonus payable to the CFO in 2009 was shares on 1 January 2010.
The CFO will not receive an US$400 000 for agreed outperformance.
Both executive directors received awards amount is payable for achieving target performance.
Shares awarded under the scheme generally vest For 2010, the CFOs maximum bonus ceiling has in three equal tranches over a relevant three year period as increased to US$800 000 for agreed outperformance, specified at the date of award.
as it had previously been set at a lower level to recognise that Mr GP Shuttleworth was new to the role.
No The vesting profile is in line with the policy for all senior bonus is payable for combined performance below executives across the organisation.
It reflects that awards 80% of target.
The committee considers performance are not generally made on an annual basis, and therefore against each of the metrics in the round including staggered vesting supports appropriate phasing of payments whether one or more are very significantly above or for example if awards are made only once every two or more below the target level.
The committee intends continuing its adjustment lengthening of vesting periods started in 2009, during 2010, Bonus payments in respect of 2009 towards attaining best practice guidelines.
Based on exceptional performance achieved against all targets during the 2009 financial year, the remuneration Awards outstanding are detailed in the table on page 102. committee determined that both Dr DM Bristow and Performance measures for awards made under the Mr GP Shuttleworth should receive their maximum annual Restricted Share Scheme bonus of US$3.75 million and US$400 000 respectively.
The gold mining industry is capital intensive, cyclical Chief executive and long term.
Outstanding performance comes from In determining the bonus for the CEO for 2009, the finding and accessing high quality resources, successfully developing new projects and maintaining efficient and committee took into account performance against EBITDA, production efficiency, reserves and individual safe operations.
The committee believes that against strategic output performance metrics.
Maximum bonus that background, success can best be measured by was considered appropriate on the basis that: the companys total shareholder return performance RANDGOLD NASDAQ TSR VS HSBC GLOBAL GOLD INDEX HSBC Global Gold Index US$ Randgold Nasdaq TSR US$ Index 1 000 800 600 400 200 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 TSR Total shareholder return RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 99 Composite 90-107 Governance R 3 25 10 8:42 AM Page 11 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K THE REMUNERATION REPORT continued against the HSBC Global Gold Mining Index.
The for this population is higher than one might see in other HSBC Global Gold Mining Index is a capitalisation - organisations, but given the companys sustained weighted index calculated in dollars US$, representing outperformance, the committee believes this approach has mining companies in 21 countries.
been very beneficial to the company.
Going forward, Performance is measured against the index for each recognising the size and growth of the company, the tranche of the Restricted Share Awards.
The awards committee has decided to extend the Restricted Share to executive directors vest in full provided the companys Scheme to management.
performance is better than that of the index over the performance period.
No vesting occurs where the NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION companys performance falls below that of the In April 2008, following both the recommendations of the index.
remuneration committee and the board, shareholders The committee considers this target to be very approved a revised policy on non-executive directors challenging in the context of the companys historical remuneration.
No additional changes are proposed for 2010 sustained outperformance of the market.
The and non-executive directors remuneration will continue to companys performance compared with the comprise: performance of this index over the past five years is A general annual retainer to all non-executive directors shown in the graph on page 99. of US$50 000: Satisfactory individual performance An annual committee assignment fee: In addition, the vesting of any Restricted Share Award Audit committee US$35 000. is subject to the employee being employed and Remuneration committee US$25 000. achieving a satisfactory individual performance Nomination and governance committee rating for the year preceding the vesting date, as US$10 000: assessed by the companys performance management The chairman of a board committee to receive an system.
additional premium to the committee assignment fee This rating relates to general competencies and of US$15 000: individuals are expected to obtain at least a score of The senior independent director, in addition to the three on a scale of five for vesting to occur.
general annual retainer but in lieu of any committee assignment fee, to receive an additional US$85 000: Service contracts The non-executive chairman, in addition to the general Executive directors service contracts outline the components annual retainer, but in lieu of any committee assignment of remuneration paid, but do not prescribe how remuneration fee, to receive an additional US$170 000: and levels are to be modified from year to year.
Dr DM Bristow An award to each director of restricted shares being signed a new service contract on 28 April 2008.
The shares vest over Mr GP Shuttleworth signed a service contract when he joined a three year period from the date of the award.
Vesting the company on 1 July 2007, and an updated contract on would accelerate on the following conditions: 1 July 2008.
The company and the executive directors can Termination other than resignation or dismissal.
terminate the contract by giving six months notice in writing.
Voluntary retirement after the age of 65, with a The employment relationship can be ended immediately by minimum of three years service as a director.
making a payment in lieu of notice, equivalent to six months Change in control of the company.
base salary and any retirement benefit due from contributions to the companys provident fund.
Currently no non-executive director has share options.
In May 2009, following his retirement from the board, Mr BH Asher exercised his 25 400 share options by acquiring External directorships the shares.
Executive directors may accept external appointments, subject to the boards consent, as non-executive directors of other companies and would normally retain any fees Non-executive directors shareholding requirement received.
In 2009 fees of US$26 702 C$30 333 2008: A non-executive director must hold shares at least equal in C$28 925 were payable to Dr DM Bristow in relation to his value as at the beginning of the year to the general annual role as non-executive director of Rockwell Resources retainer.
The policy for building up and maintaining the International.
shareholding is the same as for the executive directors.
Save for Dr Dagdelen, who was appointed to the board in Shareholding requirement January 2010 and will only obtain his first restricted shares There is now a requirement for executive directors to hold with effect from 1 January 2011, the remaining non-executive shares in the company at least equal in value as at the directors hold shares equal to the value of the general annual beginning of the year to US$50 000.
Both Dr DM Bristow retainer.
and Mr GP Shuttleworth hold shares at least equal in value to US$50 000.
New directors are granted three years in which to acquire the required shareholding and this period could be extended by the unanimous approval of the disinterested directors.
If the number of shares were to fall below the threshold due to a fall in the share price, no additional purchase of shares would be required.
Directors shareholdings are set out on page 101.
Senior executive remuneration The committee has oversight of remuneration policies for the senior executive population below the main board, and applies the same principles of transparency, clarity and aligning reward with performance.
The company does not operate an annual cash bonus for this senior executive population.
It is considered important to support alignment with shareholders, and therefore the company operates a policy of granting share options rather than paying cash bonuses to senior executives.
Dr Paverd and Mr Asher retired from the board on 5 May 2009.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SHARE OPTIONS Date Market from At At price at which 1 Jan 31 Dec Exercise date of exerExpiry US$ 2009 Granted Exercised 2009 price exercise cisable date NON-EXECUTIVE BH Asher 25 400 - 25 400 - 1.65 66.66 29 01 01 28 01 11 Executive directors do not participate in the Share Option Plan.
Mr BH Asher exercised his remaining share options in May 2009 following his retirement from the board.
The vesting of any tranche of the above awards is subject to the companys TSR performance and the employee achieving a satisfactory individual performance rating.
An award of 40 000 shares was made to the CEO on 1 January 2010, vesting in three even tranches on 1 January 2011, 1 January 2012 and 1 January 2013, subject to performance criteria being met.
# Mr BH Asher and Dr AL Paverd retired from the board on 5 May 2009.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 102 Composite
