Senior independent director mitigation: succession planning: and investor relations As senior independent director since May 2006, Richard feedback.
The director of strategy and the managing directors Greenhalgh is available to talk with shareholders who have of Grosvenor, Mecca and Rank Interactive made presentations questions or concerns.
He also chairs meetings when nonto the board at three meetings during 2009. executive directors review the performance of the chairman.
Appointment of directors Board focus 2009: succession planning We have a thorough and transparent procedure for appointing Traditionally we have tended to recruit individuals with a gaming new directors, supported by the formal terms of reference of the casino or bingo background, but this provided a limited pool of nominations committee.
In making external appointments we have looked to the The agreed terms and conditions for non-executive directors broader leisure sector to help deliver excellent customer service.
comply with the Code and are available for inspection at the Additionally, the chief executive, HR director and Misura Companys registered office.
Consulting undertook an internal talent profile to identify highAll new directors must stand for election at the first annual potential managers for the future.
This was presented to the board general meeting after their appointment and, thereafter, at at its July meeting for discussion and debate.
intervals of no more than three years.
Non-executive directors are engaged for an initial period of three years and must stand for election and re-appointment in the same way.
Board committees and activities Board meetings The following committees operate under the auspices of the board: Board meetings allow for regular and frank discussion on Remuneration strategy, trading, financial performance and risk management.
Nominations There were eight scheduled meetings during the year and Finance one additional meeting to discuss a topical issue.
Our meeting Audit in June, held away from our headquarters, was devoted entirely to strategy.
Details of their membership are set out on page 41.
A rolling The boards committees also met regularly to discharge agenda and topical items determine the committees discussions.
Remuneration Attendance A separate and full remuneration review is published on pages The directors attendance at 2009 board and committee 48 to 54. meetings is recorded in the table below.
Nominations In exceptional circumstances when a director is unable to The nominations committee is responsible for identifying attend a meeting, his comments on briefing papers can be given relevant talent and nominating all board appointments.
We in advance to the relevant chairman.
believe it is sensible for the chairman and chief executive to sit Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Finance on the committee and be fully involved in the process except Total9 Total3 Total4 Total2 Total14 when their own re-appointment is discussed.
Peter Johnson 9 n a n a 1 14 During 2009 the committee met formally on two occasions.
It Ian Burke 9 n a n a 2 14 did not recommend any new board appointments during the year.
Paddy Gallagher 9 n a n a n a 14 Richard Greenhalgh 8 3 4 2 n a Action 2009 Owen ODonnell 9 3 n a n a n a Having chaired the Group through difficult times into a new phase Bill Shannon 9 3 4 2 n a of stability, Peter Johnsons three-year tenure was due to expire John Warren 9 3 4 2 n a in January 2010.
The committee, chaired by Richard Greenhalgh, agreed that continuity was essential and a further three-year post Peter Johnson wasnot eligibleto attend the nominationscommittee meeting was approved.
Owen ODonnellbecame a memberof the remuneration committee on 15January2010.
Setting the agenda Finance The finance committee is made up of the chairman and the A rolling programme of items sets the agenda for board discussion.
This is regularly reviewed and updated to cover two executive directors who are authorised to approve capital expenditure and make financing decisions for the Group.
Comprehensive briefing papers on substantive agenda items are circulated at least five On behalf of the board, their role includes setting, monitoring and reporting on: working days before meetings where possible.
These contain detailed background information, so freeing valuable time for Operating plans Monthly comparison of operating divisions actual financial informed debate.
The core business of the board focuses on: strategy: capital performance against budget expenditure: responsible operation: gaming industry issues: risk Year-end forecasts.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 43 DIRECTORS REPORT: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED B During the year the committee met formally on 14 occasions.
Listening to stakeholders Our dialogue with stakeholders informs strategy, risk management Action 2009 and our corporate responsibility agenda.
Among others, we were in Approved capital expenditure included: touch with: The Gambling Commission: national charity GamCare: Conversion of Mecca Bingo sites in Catford and Oldbury to our City analysts: Government: Auditors.
new format, following the successful opening of Mecca Beeston.
The Gambling Commission published results of a study into Acquisition of the Isle of Capri casino, Coventry, and its gaming machines and problem gamblers in 2009.
To assist the conversion to a G Casino.
regulators research, we provided access to some Mecca and Grosvenor clubs and their customers.
GamCare highlighted problem gambling among employees at a conference in the year, advocating that employees should Audit be advised of where to find impartial debt counselling.
We A separate and full audit review is published on pages 46 to 47. consequently updated our existing employee policy to include the advice.
Knowledge and performance City analysts remained concerned that increased taxation levied on bingo in the April Budget 2009 and now proposed on Information flow gaming machines undermines our profitability.
We lobbied the Assisted by the company secretary, the chairman is responsible Government to reassess its position from April through to the for ensuring that directors receive accurate and timely Pre-Budget Report on 9 December 2009 when the Government information on all relevant matters.
announced a reduction in bingo duty at the next budget.
The directors receive a monthly report of current and We continue to lobby them.
forecast trading results and treasury positions, as well as updates on shareholder views.
We operate an open-door policy between the board and the Our management of current and potential risk is explained fully executive.
Members of the executive also make regular board in the audit review on pages 46 and 47. presentations to ensure a flow of operational information Employee engagement reaches the directors in a timely way.
Performance reviews and regular engagement surveys provided Informal dinners with management have proved an regular insight into our employees opinions and their knowledge effective forum for open discussion.
There were two in the of Group business goals.
Please see page 33 of our corporate year and, at the request of the board, three have been scheduled responsibility report for further information.
Leadership and integrity Induction We have an employee code of conduct that sets out our values On appointment, new directors attend a comprehensive and principles and guides everyones behaviour.
Adherence to the induction programme, which includes briefings on the Groups code is important.
It upholds our reputation and relationships, trading environment, site visits and meetings with senior inside and outside the Company.
The audit committee is responsible for monitoring Advice and expertise management reports on employee conduct, including our All directors have access to the advice and services of the whistleblowing programme.
company secretary and, if required, may take independent advice and or professional development at the Companys expense.
Out and about in the business The non-executive directors made a number of visits to Rank business sites to gain first-hand knowledge of day-to-day operations.
Action 2009 Non-executive directors undertook computer-based training on problem gambling to find out how Rank trains its people to protect vulnerable people from harm.
Relations with shareholders We speak with institutional shareholders and city analysts through a programme of investor relations and regular meetings Risk information with principal shareholders.
The Companys risk management reporting provides knowledge All directors receive reports to keep them in touch with of current and emerging risks, trends and opportunities that shareholder opinion.
During the year, a total of 52 meetings may colour strategic decisions.
of shareholders and city analysts were attended by one or more We communicate with regulators, government, nonof the chairman, chief executive and finance director.
Formal governmental organisations and other bodies who have briefings on shareholder opinion are circulated after opinions about our business, its future and effects.
presentation of the Companys interim and annual results.
44 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 Board evaluation The board makes sure that the chairman has enough time to devote to his job.
During the year we were unanimously satisfied that Peter Johnsons other commitments had no material impact on the execution of his duties.
To monitor overall board performance, we use questionnaires between the chairman and each director to evaluate individuals, the committees and the board as a whole.
The chairmans performance is evaluated through a confidential questionnaire, completed by all non-executive and executive directors.
The non-executive directors held their annual meeting to appraise the chairmans effectiveness in January 2010.
At least once a year, the chairman holds a meeting solely with non-executive directors to consider the performance of executive directors.
This meeting took place in January 2010.
We have reviewed the questionnaire reports and are agreed that: The board functioned effectively during 2009.
Its committees continued to discharge their duties in line with their respective terms of reference.
By order of the board Frances Bingham CompanySecretary 24February2010 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 45 DIRECTORS REPORT: ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT B B  Directors methods of enforcing control, some of which were  established through Ranks historical activities in the USA and the requirement to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
 Dedicated teams for compliance and internal audit.
 Ranks organisational structure and clear lines of accountability, authority and responsibility.
Improved information flow Following 2008s audit committee evaluation, the committee resolved to have more dialogue with the Groups internal audit function.
The head of internal audit now makes regular presentations to the committee and reporting includes comparative and trend Role of the audit committee analysis.
This accountability and audit review has been prepared on To embed control further, the scores used by internal audit to behalf of the board by the audit committee.
monitor each business units reporting performance are considered The committees duties include assessing the integrity of as part of operational executives appraisals and, for 2009, determined part of our casino operational executives bonus all public financial statements before their submission to the payments.
From 2010 this will be extended to apply to Mecca board, ensuring we present a fair assessment of the Groups operational executives bonus payments.
Any changes in accounting policies are authorised by the committee, which also reviews the objectivity and effectiveness of our external auditors every year.
Compliance The committee additionally oversees the Companys Compliance affects our reputation, legal position and financial internal code of conduct and monitors our whistle-blowing sustainability.
We are responsible for compliance across the programme through which employees may in confidence Group and for ensuring that all Rank businesses meet local raise concerns about possible improprieties in areas of financial legal and regulatory requirements.
reporting, financial control and other ethical matters.
Compliance with the Gambling Act 2005 and its forerunner, the Gaming Act 1968 is fundamental to the Membership and meetings Members of the audit committee are listed on page 41.
The survival of Ranks businesses, creating a heavily compliant culture within the Company.
board is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
A dedicated compliance team of 17 employees monitors day-to-day adherence to the provisions of the Act and other The chairman, chief executive, finance director, company secretary and financial controller normally attend committee regulatory obligations.
Senior executives, the internal audit team and our external meetings, as do the external auditors.
auditors are responsible for monitoring overall compliance.
They report to the audit committee and the board.
Audit committee activity Internal control and risk management In 2009 the committee examined the effectiveness of the Groups approach to: To maintain control and direction over strategic, financial, Assessment of risk by reviewing evidence of current and operational and compliance issues, the board has put in place emerging risk.
formally defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Internal control by approving the internal audit plan and Established procedures are geared to identify, evaluate and reviewing its findings, reviewing the annual and interim financial manage significant risks and to monitor the Groups businesses statements and reviewing the reports of the external auditors.
Action plans to address any failings or weaknesses of internal This framework is reviewed annually and is designed to control.
safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets, Action plans to manage significant risks.
This process has been in place during the year and up to the while ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained.
date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Senior management is responsible for making sure that controls It has been reviewed by the board and meets the Internal Control and procedures are enforced and that the board is informed Guidance for directors contained within the Combined Code of the of any risks and control issues that arise.
Financial control: there is a comprehensive system for reporting financial results to the board, a budgeting process, an approved budget and quarterly re-forecasts.
The chief executive The committee met formally three times in the year.
Its and finance director hold monthly review meetings with terms of reference are available from the Companys website, managing directors and their respective heads of finance.
or by writing to the company secretary.
Financial reporting control: detailed policies and procedures are in place to ensure the accuracy and reliability Culture and environment of financial reporting.
We oversee a culture of strong control and risk management.
Strategic control: the board reviews the Groups strategic plans annually and regularly reviews progress.
This is reflected in: 46 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 Operational control: our procedures are laid down in We are not aware of any relevant information that has not detailed manuals and reinforced by employee training.
Each been made available to the auditors and each director has taken business unit carries out a monthly self-audit to test key steps to be aware of all such information and to ensure it is controls and report weaknesses to operational management.
available to the Companys auditors.
Communication control: the executive directors and The audit committee oversees the nature and amount of any senior management meet regularly with representatives from non-audit work undertaken by the auditors to ensure they remain the businesses to address financial, human resource, risk independent.
Consequently, the committee is required to approve management and other control issues.
all non-audit services above the value of 50,000 in advance.
Our system of internal control is designed to manage rather Our policy is to invite competitive tenders when appropriate.
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, Details of the years fees paid to  and provides reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material LLP PwC are set out in note 3 to the Group financial statements.
It controls, rather than eliminates, any When seeking external accountancy advice in relation to nonhuman error, deliberate misconduct or unforeseen events.
audit matters, it is Ranks policy to balance the need to maintain auditor independence with the desirability of taking advice Risk assessment from the leading firm in the area of advice being taken and the desirability of being efficient for example, where legacy issues Management of risk relies on effective internal controls and are involved.
The majority of non-audit work in respect of which the flow of information from management and the Companys PwC was engaged to advise relates to legacy issues arising from internal and external auditors.
disposed businesses in relation to which either PwC is the leading The process is reviewed by the audit committee and firm in the area of advice being taken and or the audit committee monitored regularly by the chief executive, supported by the considered it to be most efficient and appropriate.
At quarterly intervals, senior managers from each business Auditor assessment area are required to: The committee meets with the auditors twice a year in a closed Identify the risks to their business plans.
session without executive directors to assess the objectivity and Evaluate the risks, using likelihood and impact.
Document the actions being taken to manage those risks.
It also reviews the external audit process and the auditors The company secretary documents the findings and these performance at least annually, providing feedback to the auditors are reported to the executive committee every quarter and to .
the audit committee once a year.
Auditor appointment Principal risks and uncertainties  LLP PwC has audited the Groups accounts since 1996 so the board agreed unanimously that it The table on page 14 summarises our principal risks identified was appropriate to put the 2010 audit out to tender.
A tender from managements most recent internal workshop and during process was approved in July 2009 and several firms were subsequent risk management discussions, their impact and the invited to take part, including PwC.
Following presentations by two short-listed firms, on the recommendation of the audit committee, the board is proposing Information and independence that Ernst & Young LLP be appointed as auditors at a remuneration Internal audit to be agreed by the audit committee.
A resolution to that effect Our internal audit team provides an objective and continuous will be put to the forthcoming annual general meeting.
stream of data and opinion on risk management and control.
Assurance To avoid bias, it is entirely independent of the business The internal audit and external auditors presented their operations under audit.
findings to the committee in February, July and December.
We The team is responsible for a systematic appraisal of our confirm that action plans to remedy identified weaknesses in adherence to policies and procedures.
Its role is to safeguard internal control and risk management have been in place Ranks assets and interests from loss, including fraud, and to throughout the year.
ensure the integrity of financial information.
 LLPs audit report is published on Relations with external auditors page 58.
Our auditors are employed to express an opinion on the truth and fairness of our financial statements.
They review the systems of Committee evaluation internal financial control and the data contained in the financial The audit committees performance was assessed by questionnaire statements to the extent necessary to express an opinion.
to members and other executives who have dealings with the committee in December 2009.
The board concluded that the committee continues to function effectively.
Up to date The committee is regularly updated on accounting and legislative changes through briefing papers from the finance director and others.
They discuss with management the reporting of operational John Warren results and the financial position of the Group, and present  findings to the audit committee.
24February2010 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 47 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE B B Remunerationreport Rewardingtalent From the chairman of the remuneration committee andperformance Dear stakeholder  One important duty to our shareholders is to be very clear about how we reward our most senior people.
 Our goal is to run a successful company and to maximise  shareholder value through profit growth, but we can only do this with qualified, knowledgeable and committed people.
We must attract, retain and motivate a mix of talented people who can run the day-to-day business and deliver our strategy and performance targets.
At times of economic pressure, its even more vital that executive remuneration is appropriate and clearly reasoned, This report has been prepared on behalf of the board by the not least because shareholders rightly seek assurance of our remuneration committee, under the chairmanship of our senior integrity and effectiveness.
In the past three years, the Group has restructured In all its dealings, the committee has applied the principles to secure our long-term future in the gaming market.
of good governance as set out in the Combined Code on Combined with the economic downturn, this has influenced Corporate Governance and has complied with Regulation 11 our performance and, consequently, shareholder returns, and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and employee pay in general and directors emoluments.
Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the In this context, chief executive Ian Burke took the Regulations.
personal decision to defer a mid-2008 bonus payment and Our external auditors are required to report to shareholders to recommend to the committee that he have no pay on the audited information contained at the end of this report increase until a review in January 2010.
He and finance and to state whether, in their opinion, it has been prepared in director Paddy Gallagher have since recommended that accordance with the Regulations.
they should have no pay rise in 2010 as well.
A resolution to approve this remuneration report will In 2007 the remuneration committee agreed to employ be proposed at the annual general meeting on 22 April 2010. a new and absolute link between executive performance and A summary of the directors total emoluments 2009 is set out long-term incentive plans.
With the help of our independent in Table 1, page 53. advisors, we now use an earnings per share target to calculate performance and additionally take account of the Scope and policy FTSE 350 total shareholder return to decide whether awards The remuneration committee assists the board in setting the will vest or not.
salary, benefits and employment packages for the Companys The key remuneration issues facing the committee in chairman, executive directors, the executive committee and 2009 were as follows: others who report to the chief executive.
Long-term incentives for 2010 and beyond The committee regularly reviews the Companys Executive pay review 2010 remuneration policies and practices, as well as the structure and Design of 2010 bonus scheme size of rewards, so that the Company is well placed to employ Long term incentive plan award targets for 2009 people of quality to meet our goals now and in the future.
We are committed to reporting openly and I invite you to find out how the board reached its decisions in the Our approach following review.
Our policy is to agree levels of remuneration that attract, retain and motivate high-calibre executives, without paying more than necessary.
We believe that a properly set up remuneration committee is central to establishing policies that maintain this equilibrium.
Committee matters The names and biographies of all committee members are published on pages 40 and 41.
Richard Greenhalgh The committee met four times during the year to discuss  24February2010 a rolling agenda of substantive and topical items.
By invitation, the chairman, chief executive, human resources director and the company secretary attend and contribute to committee meetings, but are not present at discussions about their own remuneration.
The committees formal terms of reference are available on our website, or by written request to the company secretary.
48 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 were considered at meetings in December, after a report from our remuneration advisors.
It was agreed that there would Committee agenda 2009 be no increases to fees paid to either the chairman or the Develop a new executive long-term incentive strategy to non-executive directors, but that the position would be replace the current long-term incentive plan, which expires on reviewed in 12 months.
27 April 2010 taking into account the now closed executive share option scheme.
Executive performance and remuneration Consider 2010 executive pay reviews taking account of pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Pay and benefits Determine 2009 LTIP award targets.
The committees role is to agree levels of pay and benefits for Plan the structure of future performance-related executive executive directors that are in the interests of shareholders and bonus schemes.
We believe that performance-related pay should make up a significant element of the executive remuneration package and External advice that, with executive shareholding requirements, this is the most Independent consultants Watson Wyatt now Towers Watson appropriate way to motivate and reward people for meeting our were appointed in 2006 to advise on remuneration issues and shortand long-term goals.
on the granting and vesting of share-based incentive Remuneration package arrangements.
During 2009 they assisted the committee in Key components of the executive remuneration package are: devising a new long-term incentive plan for senior executives in addition to providing general advice to the committee.
Watson Base salary Wyatt have not provided any other services to the Group Pension and other benefits during 2009.
Annual cash bonus Long-term incentives Pay and benefits for non-executive directors The following charts show the fixed and variable elements of The chairman and non-executive directors receive fees only and the remuneration package for the executive directors in 2010 do not participate in the Companys bonus, share, pension or assuming target bonus and expected value levels of long-term incentive plans.
remuneration are achieved: Fees are set at a level to reflect the time and commitment they bring to their roles and to attract and retain relevant skills Chief executive 2010 target remuneration % and experience.
CEO 2010 Chairman The chairmans fee of 150,000 has not increased since 0 20406080 100 1 January 2007.
He also receives a travel expense allowance Basesalary Pension Annualbonus Long-term incentive of 10,000.
Non-executive fees Finance director 2010 target remuneration % The chairman and executive directors determine fees for nonexecutive directors.
They are as follows: FD 2010 Basic annual fee 38,000 0 20406080 100 Audit committee chair 8,500 Remuneration committee chair 7,500 Basesalary Pension Annualbonus Long-term incentive Senior independent director 2,500 The directors remuneration table on page 53 shows fees 1.
Base salary paid during the year to each non-executive director.
These have Base salaries are set broadly in line with the market norm not increased since January 2006. median levels and our independent remuneration consultants 2010 non-executive fees provide data on the salary levels of comparator groups, taking Chairman and non-executive directors fee increases for 2010 into account our sector, scale and area of operations.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 49
