1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Notes to the financial statements b.
Maturity of bank loans and borrowings Credit risk is managed centrally in respect of cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments.
In respect of placing The maturity of bank loans and borrowings is as below: deposits with banks and financial institutions and funds, individual risk limits are approved by the Board.
The table below shows the cash and cash equivalents as at the balance sheet date: The Group The Company The Group Bank overdraft Bank loans Bank overdraft Bank loans 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m m m m m AAA - 75.0 - 75.0 Due within one year 16.9 50.0 12.9 - AA 17.5 52.1 17.5 51.4 Due between one and two years - 100.0 - 177.5 17.5 127.1 17.5 126.4 Due between two and five years - 68.0 - 160.0 16.9 218.0 12.9 337.5 No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period or subsequently and the Group does not anticipate any losses from The Company Bank overdraft Bank loans Bank overdraft Bank loans non-performance by these counterparties.
2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m There is no specific concentration of credit risk in respect of home sales as the exposure is spread over a number of customers.
In respect of trade receivables, the amounts presented in the balance sheet are stated after adjusting for any doubtful receivables, based Due within one year 10.0 50.0 4.0 - on the judgement of the Groups management through using both previous experience and knowledge of the current position of any more Due between one and two years - 100.0 - 177.5 substantial debtors.
Due between two and five years - 68.0 - 160.0 10.0 218.0 4.0 337.5 e. Capital management The Group defines total capital as equity plus net debt where net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
During the year, in September 2008, the Group successfully concluded its bank refinancing to replace facilities due to mature in Autumn The Group monitors capital on the basis of the level of returns achieved on its capital base and, with respect to its financing structure, 2009.
The facilities consist of an unsecured 175.0m amortising term loan of which 25.0m was repaid during the year and an the gearing ratio.
This is defined as net debt divided by equity.
The Groups objective in managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to deliver value to its Facility arrangement fees of 5.6m were paid in respect of these facilities of which 2.8m remained unamortised at 30 June 2009. shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Group operates within policies outlined by the Board in order to maintain an appropriate funding structure.
The Board keeps the Groups capital structure under review.
The Company was fully compliant with its banking covenants as at 30 June 2009.
The total capital levels and gearing ratios as at 30 June 2009 and 30 June 2008 are as follows: 2009 2008 At the year end, the Group and Company had 207.0m 2008: 142.5m of undrawn committed bank facilities available.
m m There is no material difference between the fair value of the bank overdrafts and bank loans and their carrying values as shown in the Total borrowings 232.1 350.4 balance sheet.
Less cash and cash equivalents 17.5 127.1 Net debt 214.6 223.3 c. Amounts due in respect of development land Equity 293.5 404.6 The Groups policy permits land purchases to be made on deferred payment terms.
In accordance with IAS 39, the deferred creditor is Total capital 508.1 627.9 recorded at fair value and nominal value is amortised over the deferment period via financing costs, increasing the land creditor to its Gearing ratio 73% 55% full cash settlement value on the payment date.
f. Fair values The interest rate used for each deferred payment is an equivalent loan rate available on the date of land purchase, as applicable to a At 30 June 2009 there is no material difference between the fair value of financial instruments and their carrying values in the balance loan lasting for a comparable period of time to that deferment.
The maturity profile of the total contracted cash payments in respect of amounts due in respect of land creditors at the balance sheet Note 15.
Trade And Other Payables The Group The Company date is as follows: 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Balance at Total contracted Due less than Due between Due between 30 June cash payment one year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years m m m m m Non-current liabilities Amounts due in respect of development land 26.3 24.1 - - 2009 53.4 54.7 27.6 15.6 11.5 26.3 24.1 - - 2008 92.6 94.9 68.7 17.7 8.5 Current liabilities Trade payables 86.0 111.0 - - d. Credit risk Amounts due in respect of development land 27.1 68.5 - - Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, including call deposits with banks and financial institutions, derivative financial Amounts owed to subsidiary companies - - 13.3 14.9 instruments and trade receivables.
It represents the risk of financial loss where counterparties are unable to meet their obligations.
Other payables 1.3 4.5 - - Other taxation and social security 0.9 4.7 - - Accruals and deferred income 20.0 25.1 4.1 3.8 135.3 213.8 17.4 18.7 84 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 85 1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Notes to the financial statements Note 16.
Long Term Provisions Hedge Reserve The hedge reserve comprises the effective portion of the gain or loss arising from the fair value of cash flow hedging transactions The Group Onerous entered into by the Group that have not yet crystallised.
contracts Other Total m m m Other Reserves Other reserves consists of a 7.0m Capital Redemption reserve 2008: 7.0m and a 0.9m Consolidation reserve 2008: 0.9m.
At 1 July 2008 - 2.1 2.1 Undistributable Reserves Provisions made during the year 6.7 0.2 6.9 The hedge reserve and other reserves are not available for distribution.
Provisions used during the year - 0.1 0.1 At 30 June 2009 6.7 2.2 8.9 Share Share premium Hedge Other Retained capital account reserve reserves earnings Provisions made during the year relate to onerous contracts and maintenance and sundry remedial costs in respect of development The Company m m m m m activities, which it is assessed will be utilised within four years.
Further details on onerous contracts are given in note 2.
Share Capital 2009 2008 Total recognised income and expense - - 0.3 - 0.3 m m Shares issued - 0.6 - - - Dividends paid - - - - 27.3 Authorised Dividends received from subsidiary companies - - - - 11.0 330,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each 2008: 330,000,000 33.0 33.0 At 30 June 2008 16.0 58.6 0.9 7.0 97.6 Allotted, called up and fully paid 16.0 16.0 Total recognised income and expense - - 3.0 - 4.8 Shares issued - - - - - Number of ordinary shares of 10p each Dividends paid - - - - - Movement in the year was as follows: Dividends received from subsidiary companies - - - - - At 1 July 2008 160,012,013 At 30 June 2009 16.0 58.6 2.1 7.0 92.8 Share options exercised 535 At 30 June 2009 160,012,548 Hedge Reserve The hedge reserve comprises the effective portion of the gain or loss arising from the fair value of cash flow hedging transactions Options granted to Directors and employees under the LTSIP, the CSOP and the SAYE schemes are set out in Note 7d.
entered into by the Company that have not yet crystallised.
Share Capital, Share Premium Account And Reserves Other reserves consists of a 7.0m Capital Redemption reserve 2008: 7.0m.
Share Undistributable Reserves Share premium Hedge Other Retained capital account reserve reserves earnings The hedge reserve and other reserves are not available for distribution.
The Group m m m m m At 1 July 2007 16.0 58.1 1.2 7.9 494.6 Total recognised income and expense - - 0.3 - 145.9 Shares issued - 0.6 - - - Dividends paid - - - - 27.3 Share-based payment - - - - 0.2 Debit in respect of LTSIP - - - - 0.4 Contribution to QUEST - - - - 0.1 At 30 June 2008 16.0 58.7 0.9 7.9 321.1 Total recognised income and expense - - 3.0 - 109.0 Shares issued - - - - - Dividends paid - - - - - Share-based payment - - - - 0.2 Credit in respect of LTSIP SAYE - - - - 0.7 Contribution to QUEST - - - - - At 30 June 2009 16.0 58.7 2.1 7.9 213.0 86 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 87 1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Notes to the financial statements Note 19.
Reconciliation Of Movements in Equity Note 21.
Operating Lease Total Commitments The Group The Company Land and Land and 2009 2008 2009 2008 buildings Other buildings Other m m m m 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m Loss profit for the period 100.4 139.9 3.8 5.7 Dividends on equity shares - 27.3 - 16.3 Expiring in under one year - 0.3 - 0.2 Other recognised income and expense relating to the period net 11.6 6.3 11.6 6.3 Expiring in one to two years - 0.5 0.1 0.7 Shares issued - 0.6 - 0.6 Expiring in two to five years - 0.2 - 0.7 Share-based payment 0.2 0.2 - - Expiring after five years - - - - Movement in LTSIP SAYE 0.7 0.5 - - Net decrease in equity 111.1 173.2 7.8 16.3 Note 22.
Contingent Liabilities The Company has guaranteed the bank borrowings of its subsidiaries.
Performance bonds, financial guarantees in respect of certain Opening equity 404.6 577.8 180.1 196.4 deferred land creditors and other building or performance guarantees have been entered into in the normal course of business.
Related Party Transactions As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the income statement of Redrow plc is not presented as a part of these Within the definition of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, the Board and key management personnel are related parties.
disclosure of the remuneration of the Board is given in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 44 to 51.
A summary of remuneration provided to key management personnel is provided in Note 7c.
The consolidated loss on ordinary activities after taxation for the financial year, excluding intra-Group dividends, is made up as follows: In addition, related party transactions were carried out with parties related to Steve Morgan since the date of his appointment in the sum 2009 2008 of 105,000 for the Group and 97,000 for the Company.
These primarily relate to donations to the Morgan Foundation as described in m m the Directors Remuneration report on page 48.
Holding company 3.8 5.7 There have been no other material transactions with key management personnel.
There is no other difference between transactions with Subsidiary companies 104.2 145.6 key management personnel of the Company and the Group.
100.4 139.9 The Company funds the operating companies through both equity investment and loans at commercial rates of interest.
Movement In Net Debt Cash Company provides its subsidiaries with the services of Senior Management, for which a recharge is made to those subsidiary companies based upon utilisation of services.
At Net At 1 July Cash Other movement 30 June 2008 flow movements in the year 2009 The amount outstanding from subsidiary undertakings at 30 June 2009 was 362.3m 2008: 378.9m.
The amount owed to subsidiary The Group m m m m m undertakings at 30 June 2009 was 13.3m 2008: 14.9m.
Cash and cash equivalents 127.1 96.3 13.3 109.6 17.5 The Company provides the Groups defined benefit pension scheme, as detailed in note 7e.
Expected service costs are charged to the Bank overdrafts 12.9 4.0 - 4.0 16.9 operating businesses at cost.
There is no contractual arrangement or stated policy relating to the charge.
Experience and actuarial gains 114.2 100.3 13.3 113.6 0.6 are recognised in the Company, via the statement of recognised income and expense.
Bank loans 337.5 119.5 - 119.5 218.0 Issue costs - 5.6 2.8 2.8 2.8 The Group did not undertake any transactions with The Waterford Park Company Limited joint venture.
The Groups loans to its joint 223.3 24.8 16.1 8.7 214.6 ventures are disclosed in Note 10.
At Net At 1 July Cash Other movement 30 June 2008 flow movements in the year 2009 The Company m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 126.4 97.4 11.5 108.9 17.5 Bank overdrafts 4.0 6.0 - 6.0 10.0 122.4 103.4 11.5 114.9 7.5 Bank loans 337.5 119.5 - 119.5 218.0 Issue costs - 5.6 2.8 2.8 2.8 215.1 21.7 14.3 7.4 207.7 Other movements comprise amortisation of issue costs, imputed interest on deferred land creditors, actuarial losses on the pension scheme and the movement in fair value of interest rate cash flow hedges.
88 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 89 1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of whichever may be the earlier but so that the Company may, c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share iv The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons Redrow plc will be held at St. Davids Park Hotel, St. Davids before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or is an amount equal to i 105% of the average of the middle whose shares are held on their behalf by another person Park, Flintshire on Wednesday 4 November 2009 at 12 noon for might require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or market quotations for an ordinary share derived from the and who have been nominated to receive communications the following purposes.
All resolutions will be proposed as to convert any security into shares to be granted after such London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the ordinary resolutions except numbers 8, 11, 12 and 13 which will expiry and the Directors may allot shares or grant rights to business days immediately preceding the day on which the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated be proposed as special resolutions.
subscribe for or convert securities into shares in pursuance of ordinary share is purchased exclusive of expenses payable persons may have a right under an agreement with the such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
by the Company : and ii that stipulated by Article 5 1 of member who holds the shares on their behalf to be Resolution 1 - Annual Report & Accounts the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation EC 2273 2003 : appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
To receive and adopt the Directors report and the financial Resolution 11 - Authority to disapply pre-emption rights and Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, statements for the year ended 30 June 2009, together with the That, subject to the passing of Resolution 10 as set out above, d the authority conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under Auditors report.
the Directors be given power pursuant to Resolution 10 to make next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 30 such an agreement to give instructions to the person allotments of equity securities as defined in section 560 1 of December 2010 whichever may be the earlier except that holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
Resolution 2 - Re-appointment of Director the Companies Act 2006 pursuant to the authority contained in the Company may before such expiry make a contract to To re-appoint Steve Morgan as a Director.
the said Resolution 10 and to sell shares which are held in v Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and purchase its own shares which will or may be completed or treasury wholly for cash as if section 561 1 of the said Act did vote at general meetings of the Company.
The total Resolution 3 - Re-appointment of Director executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
not apply to such allotments or sale provided that this power number of issued ordinary shares in the Company on To re-appoint David Arnold as a Director.
shall be limited to: 9 September 2009 is 160,012,869, carrying one vote each Resolution 13 Calling of a general meeting other than an Resolution 4 - Re-appointment of Director on a poll.
Therefore, the total number of votes exercisable AGM i allotments of equity securities in connection with a rights To re-appoint Alan Jackson as a Director.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting issue, being an offer of equity securities by way of rights to may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Resolution 5 - Re-appointment of Director ordinary shareholders of the Company in proportion as vi Shareholders should note that, under Section 527 of the To re-appoint Debbie Hewitt as a Director.
nearly as may be to their holdings subject to such Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold 9 September 2009 By order of the Board exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may requirements set out in that section have the right to Resolution 6 - Re-appointment of Director Graham Cope deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional require the Company to publish on a website a statement To re-appoint Paul Hampden Smith as a Director.
Registered office: Company Secretary entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Redrow House or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or Companys accounts including the auditors report and Resolution 7 - Reappointment of Auditors St. Davids Park stock exchange in any territory: and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the To re-appoint  LLP as external Auditors Flintshire Annual General Meeting for the financial year beginning to the Company, to hold office until the end of the next general ii any other allotments for cash or equity securities or sale of CH5 3RX 1 July 2008: or ii any circumstance connected with an meeting at which financial statements are laid before the shares held in treasury up to a maximum nominal amount of Registered in England No.
2877315 auditor of the Company appointed for the financial year Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
800,063, and shall unless previously revoked or renewed beginning 1 July 2008 ceasing to hold office since the expire on the date which is the earlier of the next Annual Notes: Resolution 8 - Adoption of new Articles of Association previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports General Meeting of the Company or 30 December 2010 save i A shareholder entitled to attend and vote may appoint a That a the Articles of Association of the Company be amended were laid.
The Company may not require the shareholders that the said power shall permit the Company to make an proxy or proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him.
A by deleting all the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses offer or enter into an agreement before the expiry of such proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A member Association which, by virtue of section 28 of the Companies Act in complying with Sections 527 or 528 requirements as to power which would or might require equity securities to be may appoint more than one proxy, provided that each proxy 2006, are to be treated as provisions of the Companys Articles website availability of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different of Association: and b the Articles of Association produced to Company is required to place a statement on a website securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if share or shares held by him.
the meeting and initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must such power conferred had not expired.
For the purposes of purposes of identification be adopted as the Articles of forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later ii A form of proxy is enclosed which, if required, should be this Resolution, the nominal amount of any securities shall Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the than the time when it makes the statement available on the completed in accordance with the instructions set out be taken to be, in the case of rights to subscribe for or exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
The business which may be dealt with at the therein and returned so as to reach the Companys convert any securities into shares of the Company, the Annual General Meeting for the relevant financial year Registrars not later than 48 hours before the time of the Resolution 9 - Directors Remuneration report nominal amount of such shares which may be allotted includes any statement that the Company has been meeting or any adjourned meeting.
Completion of a form of To approve the Directors Remuneration report for the year pursuant to such rights.
required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to proxy will not preclude a shareholder from attending and ended 30 June 2009. publish on a website.
Resolution 12 - Authority to purchase own shares voting at the meeting in person if they so wish.
Resolution 10 - Authority to allot shares That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally vii Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask iii All shareholders on the Register at 6pm on 2 November That the directors, in place of any existing authority conferred authorised, in accordance with section 701 of the Companies questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any 2009 or if the meeting is adjourned 48 hours before the upon them for the purpose of section 549 551 of the Act 2006, to make market purchases within the meaning of such question relating to the business being dealt with at time fixed for the meeting and only those shareholders are Companies Act 2006, be generally and unconditionally section 693 of the said Act of ordinary shares of 10p each in the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in authorised pursuant to and in accordance with section 551 of the capital of the Company ordinary shares, provided that: so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the respect of the number of shares registered in their the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all powers of the Company meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential a the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised to be respective names at that time.
Changes to entries on the to allot and to make offers or agreements to allot shares or information, b the answer has already been given on a purchased is 16,001,254: Register after that time will be disregarded in determining convert any securities into shares up to an aggregate nominal website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
amount of 5,333,751 provided that this authority shall unless undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good is 10p exclusive of expenses payable by the Company: previously revoked or renewed expire on the date of the next order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Annual General Meeting of the Company or 30 December 2010 90 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 91 1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Notice of Annual General Meeting viii A copy of this notice and other information required by and must contain the information required for such  LLP were appointed at last years connection with the issue of shares under the Companys share Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 can be found at instructions, as described in the CREST Manual available Annual General Meeting and are willing to seek re-appointment option schemes.
The message regardless this year.
It is normal practice for a Companys Directors to be of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an authorised to agree the Auditors fees.
If this resolution is Resolution 11 - Authority to disapply pre-emption rights ix Under Section 338 and Section 338A of the Companies Act amendment to the instruction given to a previously passed, the Audit Committee will approve the fees for The Directors may only allot shares for cash to persons who are 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements in appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted recommendation to the Board.
not already shareholders in the Company if authorised to do so those sections have the right to require the Company i to so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 3RA50 by by the shareholders in a general meeting.
This resolution renews give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice Resolution 8 - Adoption of new Articles of Association the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments authority for the Directors to allot shares for cash without first of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be It is proposed in Resolution 8 to adopt new articles of specified in Note ii above.
For this purpose, the time of offering them to existing members up to an aggregate nominal moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting and or association the New Articles in order to update the receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the amount of 800,063.
This sum represents 8,000,627 ordinary ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the Companys current articles of association the Current timestamp applied to the message by the CREST shares of 10p each, being equivalent to approximately 5% of the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution Articles primarily to take account of the implementation on Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to Companys current issued share capital.
The resolution also which may be properly included in the business.
A 1 October 2009 of the last parts of the Companies Act 2006, retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner enables the Directors to modify the strict requirements for a resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly the coming into force of the Companies Shareholders Rights prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of rights issue in circumstances where they consider it necessary be included in the business unless a in the case of a Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations and instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be or expedient.
resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether other provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which were not communicated to him by other means.
by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the incorporated into the Current Articles.
In addition, if the Company has purchased its own shares and Companys constitution or otherwise, b it is defamatory of xiv CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST holds them in treasury, this resolution would give the Directors any person, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are sponsors or voting service providers should note that power to sell these shares for cash to persons other than may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must summarised in the section below titled Summary of principal Euroclear does not make available special procedures in existing shareholders, subject to the same limit that would apply identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the differences between Current and New Articles.
Other changes, CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings to issues of shares for cash to these persons.
matter to be included in the business, must be authorised which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of by the person or persons making it, must be received by the some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the The authority will expire on whichever is the earlier of the Company not later than 23 September 2009, being the date by the Companies Act 2006, the Shareholders Rights CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or 30 December six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a Regulations or the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has 2010. matter to be included in the business only must be or conform the language of the New Articles with that used in appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the the model articles for public companies produced by the CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such action Resolution 12 - Authority to purchase own shares request.
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, have not been as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is The Directors are seeking authority as in previous years, to make noted in the explanatory section below.
The New Articles are transmitted by means of the CREST system by any market purchases of the Companys shares.
The proposed x Copies of the Directors service contracts will be available available for inspection, as noted on page 94 of this document.
In this connection, CREST members and, authority would be limited by the terms of the special resolution for inspection at the registered office during normal where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service to the purchases of 16,001,254 shares, an aggregate nominal Resolution 9 - Directors Remuneration report business hours on any business day and at the place of the providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of value of 1,600,125 which is equivalent to 10% of the Under the Companies Act 2006 companies are required to ask Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes before the the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 30 June 2009. shareholders to vote on the Directors Remuneration report.
The meeting is held until its conclusion.
report is contained on pages 44 to 51 of the Annual Report & Shares purchased by the Company could be held as treasury Accounts.
xi The register of Directors interests in the share capital of xv The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction shares, which could then be subsequently cancelled, sold for the Company will be available for inspection at the place of in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the cash or used pursuant to the Companys employee share Resolution 10 - Authority to allot shares the meeting from 12 noon on 4 November 2009 until the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. schemes.
The ability to hold in treasury shares that the Shareholders are being invited to renew the authority given to conclusion of the meeting.
None of the Directors has a Company purchases pursuant to the authority conferred by this Directors in previous years to allot new shares.
If passed, service contract which cannot be terminated within one year xvi If you have any questions about the meeting or need any resolution would give the Company the ability to re-issue Resolution 10 would renew this authority by authorising the without payment of compensation.
special assistance at the meeting, please contact the treasury shares quickly and cost-effectively, and would provide directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of Company Secretary at the registered office or telephone the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its 5,333,751. xii CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies 01244 520044 during normal business hours.
If any shares were used in this way, the Company through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service would take them into account when calculating the share issuing This represents 53,337,512 ordinary shares of 10p each and is may do so for the meeting and any adjournment of the limits in the schemes, as long as required under the Guidelines Explanatory Notes To Annual General Meeting Resolutions: equivalent to approximately 33% of the Companys current meeting by following the procedures described in the of the Association of British Insurers.
Resolution 2-6 - Re-appointment of directors issued ordinary share capital excluding shares held in treasury.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST The Companys Articles of Association require that each Director The authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General sponsored members and those CREST members who have Details of any shares purchased pursuant to the proposed shall retire from office at the third Annual General Meeting after Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, 30 December 2010. appointed a voting service provider should refer to their authority would be notified to the London Stock Exchange by the Annual General Meeting at which he was last elected or, in CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able 7.30am on the business day following the purchase and to the the case of a new Director, to seek re-election at the first Annual The Company does not, as of 9 September 2009 hold any to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Registrar of Companies within 28 days.
Details would also be General Meeting following appointment.
included in the Companys Annual Report & Accounts in respect xiii In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by Resolution 7 - Re-appointment of Auditors of the financial period in which any such purchases take place.
The directors will exercise the authority to allot only when means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST The Company is required to appoint Auditors at every general The authority set out in the special resolution will expire on satisfied that it is in the interests of the Company to do so.
"They message a ""CREST Proxy Instruction"" must be properly meeting at which the accounts are presented to shareholders."
whichever is the earlier of the end of the next Annual General have no present intention of exercising the authority, except in authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications 92 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 93 1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Notice of Annual General Meeting Meeting or 30 December 2010 and the resolution specifies the Summary of principal differences between the Current and New 3 Articles which duplicate statutory provisions 8 Suspension of registration of share transfers maximum and minimum prices at which the shares may be Articles: Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions The Current Articles permit the Directors to suspend the bought.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing 1 General contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main to be registration of transfers.
Under the Companies Act 2006 levels and the overall financial position of the Company will be The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are removed in the New Articles.
This is in line with the share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
taken into account before deciding upon the course of action.
Other changes, which are of a minor, approach advocated by the Government that statutory The power in the Current Articles to suspend the registration The Companys current intention is to hold any shares technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor provisions should not be duplicated in a companys of transfers is inconsistent with this requirement.
purchased as treasury shares but it retains the flexibility to changes which merely reflect changes made by the constitution.
Accordingly, this power has been removed in the New cancel them or sell them for cash if it considers this to be in the Companies Act 2006, the Shareholders Rights Regulations Articles.
best interests of the Company.
or the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 have not 4 Authorised share capital and unissued shares been noted below.
Generally the opportunity has been taken The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a 9 Notice of general meetings The directors would exercise this authority only if they felt it to bring clearer language into the New Articles and in some company to have an authorised share capital and the New The Companies Act 2006 requires a company to give 21 would be in the best interests of the Company to do so and areas to conform the language of the New Articles with that Articles reflect this.
Directors are still limited as to the clear days notice of general meetings unless the company would increase earnings per share.
To the extent that any such used in the model articles for public companies produced by number of shares they can at any time allot because offers members an electronic voting facility and a special shares were held in treasury, earnings per share would only be the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills the allotment authority continues to be required under the resolution reducing the period of notice to not less than 14 increased on a temporary basis, until the shares were Model Articles.
Companies Act 2006, save in respect of employee share days has been passed.
Annual general meetings must be transferred out of treasury.
At 9 September 2009 there were schemes.
held on 21 clear days notice.
The New Articles remove options outstanding over 4,002,902 shares, representing 2.5% 2 The Companys objects provisions in the Current Articles dealing with notice of of the Companys current issued ordinary share capital The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are 5 Redeemable shares general meetings on the basis that this is dealt with in the excluding shares held in treasury.
If the authority given by this currently set out in the Companys memorandum and Prior to 1 October 2009, if a company wished to issue Companies Act 2006.
Resolution were to be fully used, these would represent 2.8% of articles of association.
The Companys memorandum redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles the terms the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding shares contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets and manner of redemption.
The Companies Act 2006 10 Chairmans casting vote held in treasury.
There are no warrants outstanding.
out the scope of the activities the Company is authorised to enables directors to determine such matters instead The New Articles remove the provision giving the chairman a undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide scope.
provided they are so authorised by the articles.
The New casting vote at a general meeting in the event of an equality Resolution 13 Calling of a general meeting other than an Articles contain such an authorisation.
The Company has no of votes as this is no longer permitted under the Companies AGM The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces the plans to issue redeemable shares but if it did so the Act 2006.
Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders significance of a companys memorandum.
The Companies directors would need shareholders authority to issue new Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for Act 2006 provides that a memorandum will record only the shares in the usual way.
11 Form of resolution general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless names of subscribers and the number of shares each The Current Articles contain a provision that, where for any shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
Under the 6 Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and subpurpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or however be less than 14 clear days.
AGMs of the Company will Companies Act 2006 the objects clause and all other divide shares, and reduce share capital extraordinary resolution is also effective and that, where an continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
provisions which are currently contained in a companys Under the law in force prior to 1 October 2009, a company extraordinary resolution is required, a special resolution is memorandum, for existing companies at 1 October 2009, required specific enabling provisions in its articles to also effective.
This provision is being removed as the Until the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights are deemed to be contained in a companys articles of purchase its own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been retained Regulations on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call association but the company can remove these provisions by shares and to reduce its share capital or other under the Companies Act 2006. general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice special resolution.
undistributable reserves as well as shareholder authority to without obtaining such shareholder approval where the meeting undertake the relevant action.
The Current Articles include 12 Adjournments for lack of quorum was to consider ordinary resolutions only.
In order to preserve Further, the Companies Act 2006 states that unless a these enabling provisions.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the this ability and to correspond with the proposed amendments to companys articles provide otherwise, a companys objects company only requires shareholder authority to do any of Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings the New Articles dealing with notice of general meetings, are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to these things and it is no longer necessary for articles to adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 clear Resolution 13 seeks such approval.
The approval will be have objects clauses.
For this reason the Company is contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly the relevant days after the original meeting.
The New Articles have been effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when proposing to remove its objects clause together with all enabling provisions have been removed in the New Articles.
changed to reflect this requirement.
it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
other provisions of its memorandum.
By virtue of the Companies Act 2006, all the provisions of the memorandum 7 Fractional Entitlements 13 Powers of Adjournment Documents available for your inspection have been treated as forming part of the Companys articles If, following a consolidation or sub-division, a member is The New Articles clarify the circumstances in which the Copies of the New Articles will be available for inspection during of association since 1 October 2009.
Resolution 8 a entitled to a fraction of a share the Directors have power to chairman has power to adjourn the meeting without the normal business hours on Monday to Friday each week public confirms the removal of these provisions for the Company.
sell those fractions and distribute the proceeds to the consent of the meeting.
These changes will bring the Current holiday excepted at the office of Linklaters LLP at One Silk As the effect of this resolution will be to remove the entitled members.
Articles in line with the common law position and with Street, London EC2Y 8HQ from the date of this document up to statement currently in the Companys memorandum of market practice as well as making them more consistent and including the date of the Annual General Meeting and at the association regarding limited liability, the New Articles also The New Articles contain a provision so that if the with the Model Articles.
In particular they will confirm the place of the Annual General Meeting from 11.45am until the contain an express statement regarding the limited liability entitlement is less than a nominal amount to be decided by power of the chairman to adjourn the meeting in order to close of the meeting.
the Directors, the Directors may give that amount to charity restore order or protect the safety of the attendees.
rather than giving it to the entitled member or retaining it for the Companys benefit.
This is in line with the Model Articles and ensures that the Directors are not obliged to distribute nominal sums to members where the cost of doing so might be greater than the amount to be distributed.
94 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 95 1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Notice of Annual General Meeting 14 Security and orderly conduct The Current Articles specify the circumstances in which a only directors who have no interest in the matter being The New Articles confirm that the Directors may put in place Director must vacate office.
The New Articles update these considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and security procedures at general meetings, including requiring provisions to reflect the approach taken on mental and secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a members to submit to bag searches.
This change will bring physical incapacity in the Model Articles.
way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to the Current Articles in line with market practice.
The directors will be able The New Articles expand the ways in which a Directors to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if 15 Satellite Meeting places office may be terminated.
In accordance with the guidelines they think this is appropriate.
The New Articles also contain These provisions in the New Articles will allow the Company of the Institutional Shareholders Committee, the New provisions relating to confidential information to protect a to hold general meetings in more than one place.
This will Articles provide for the removal of a Director on the director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or enable the Company to make arrangements that will be instructions of at least three quarters of the Companys potential conflict of interest arises, where the position giving more convenient to shareholders and will bring the Current Directors.
Pursuant to the best practice guidelines of the rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised Articles in line with market practice.
Higgs Review, the New Articles also provide the flexibility for by the directors.
the directors to terminate a Directors appointment on one 16 Voting Record Date months notice.
22 Use of seals Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the The New Articles provide an alternative option for execution Shareholders Rights Regulations a company must The New Articles follow the provisions of the Combined Code of documents other than share certificates.
Under the New determine the right of members to vote at a general meeting in requiring that all Directors are subject to election by Articles, when the seal is affixed to a document it may be by reference to the register not more than 48 hours before shareholders at the first annual general meeting after their signed by one authorised person in the presence of a the time for the holding of the meeting, not taking account of appointment, and to re-election thereafter every three years.
witness, whereas previously the requirement was for days which are not working days.
The New Articles introduce Non-executive Directors must also stand for annual resignature by either a Director and the secretary or two wording to reflect this requirement.
election following nine years in office.
These provisions in Directors or such other person or persons as the Directors the New Articles replace the concept of retirement by may approve.
17 Voting by proxies on a show of hands rotation in the Current Articles.
The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the 23 Indemnity Companies Act 2006 so that it now provides that each proxy 20 Notice of Board Meetings The New Articles follow the Companies Act 2006 by appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands Under the Current Articles, when a Director is abroad he can widening in some areas the scope of the powers of a unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member in request that notice of Directors meetings are sent to him at company to indemnify directors and to fund expenditure which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against a specified address and if he does not do so he is not incurred in connection with certain actions against directors.
if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to entitled to receive notice while he is away.
This provision has In particular, a company that is a trustee of an occupational vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote been removed, as modern communications mean that there pension scheme can now indemnify a director against against the resolution.
Pursuant to ICSA guidance on the may be no particular obstacle to giving notice to a Director liability incurred in connection with the companys activities implementation of the Shareholders Rights Regulations, the who is abroad.
In addition, the existing exemption New Articles also clarify that a proxy may have one vote for allowing a company to provide money for the purpose of and one against if the proxy has been instructed by one or 21 Conflicts of Interest funding a directors defence in court proceedings now more members to vote for or against the resolution and by The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties expressly covers regulatory proceedings and applies to one or more of those members to use his discretion.
which largely codify the previous law but with some changes.
Since 1 October 2008, a director must avoid a situation 18 Votes of Members where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that Under the Companies Act 2006 proxies are entitled to vote conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the Companys on a show of hands whereas under the Current Articles interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
The time limits for example, if a director becomes a director of another the appointment or termination of a proxy appointment have company or a trustee of another organisation.
The been altered by the Companies Act 2006, with weekends Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to and bank holidays now being permitted to be excluded for authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where the purpose of calculating such time limits.
Multiple proxies appropriate, where the articles of association contain a may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also exercise the rights attached to different shares held by the allows the articles of association to contain other provisions shareholder.
Multiple corporate representatives may also be for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a appointed.
The New Articles reflect these new provisions.
The New Articles give the directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to 19 Appointment, Removal and Resignation of Directors allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to The New Articles remove the requirement in the Current the current position.
Articles that a Director cannot be elected at a general meeting unless a specified amount of notice is given before There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide the meeting, in order to bring the New Articles in line with whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
96 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 97 1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Awards Glossary Affordable housing - properties targeted at or reserved for Open market - method of asset disposal that involves people who are unable to compete effectively for existing market advertising an asset e. g. land for sale and inviting bids from Redrow has an enviable track housing in an area.
The alternative of private treaty which involves negotiating with a single potential purchaser to agree Average selling price ASP - the statistical average selling price terms for the disposal of the asset or land.
record for the number of awards it of properties i. e. total price of homes sold divided by total number of properties.
Option - a contract which gives one side the contractual right but not an obligation to do something.
Many of Brownfield sites - brownfield land is another term for previously developed land, or land that contains or contained a permanent Part exchange - a means of purchasing a new home whereby the structure and associated infrastructure.
purchasers existing property is taken by the developer in part these awards are in recognition of payment for the new home they are buying.
Consented land - land which has an outline or detailed planning consent.
Planning consent - the permission required by most property our commitment to sustaining and developers and private individuals in the UK in order to be Current land - land owned by Redrow which has an outline or allowed to build on, or change the use of, a plot of land or to detailed planning consent together with land controlled by redevelop an existing building.
Normally granted by the local Redrow, usually under contract, where planning consent is being enhancing local communities planning authority e. g. district council, unitary authority or sought.
Consent can be granted in either Outline, Development site - parcel of land which is being developed for awaiting detailed plans: or Detailed when planning drawings where we build.
residential, commercial and or mixed use.
have been submitted and approved.
EcoHomes - an independent labelling scheme for housing Planning permission - see Planning consent.
administered by the Building Research Establishment BRE, Plot cost - the cost of the land on which one dwelling is built.
which assesses the environmental quality of a development.
Reservation - a property that has been reserved for purchase Exchange - when the customer has exchanged contracts to normally by payment of a reservation fee but legal contracts purchase a Redrow home and has usually provided a deposit.
have not yet been exchanged between buyer or seller to make Forward land - land which is owned or controlled by Redrow, the transaction legally binding.
2008 Housebuilding Innovation Awards National Awards Best regeneration partnership between a developer and a public generally under option, which is being promoted through the RICS - Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors, the professional sector Vision @ Devonport, Plymouth.
planning system in order to ultimately achieve a planning 2008 Housebuilding Innovation Awards body representing and regulating property professionals and The Community Award Vision @ Devonport, Plymouth.
Redrow plc named Housebuilding Innovator of the Year for a consent.
combination of its regeneration work, community involvement, Forward sales - reservations and exchanges for homes that will marketing and training initiatives.
2008 Daily Telegraph Your New Home Awards Social housing - a form of housing tenure in which the property be legally completed in a subsequent financial period.
Best Brownfield Development Barking Central.
is owned by a Government authority, which may be central or Best First Time Buyer Development Commendation for Barking Greenfield sites - land that has not previously been used for local.
Sometimes applied more generally to affordable housing Regional and Development Awards Central.
development, often referring to land in agricultural use.
usually offered through housing associations on a rented or Best Conversion Project Highly Commended for Knightstone shared ownership basis see affordable housing.
2009 LABC West Midlands Building Excellence Awards Island, Weston-super-Mare.
HCA - Homes and Communities Agency.
Best Apartments award for Hemisphere, Edgbaston.
Best New Build Village Commendation for Cwm Calon, Strategic land land bank - see forward land.
Land bank - a supply of potential development plots.
2009 LABC North Wales Building Excellence Awards Sustainable - sustainable development is an approach towards Legal completion - the transfer of legal ownership has Volume Housebuilder award from Wrexham County Borough development that tries to satisfy peoples basic needs and good Council for Ty Newydd, Wrexham.
contractually passed from the seller to the purchaser.
quality of life without compromising the quality of life for future Mixed use - development that combines two or more types of generations.
2009 LABC North West Building Excellence Awards Regions Best residential conversion award for Arcon Village, development, e. g. residential, commercial retail, office, leisure Waste management - process by which products and by-products Horwich.
generated by individuals, businesses and industry are collected, Mortgage approvals - written notification from the mortgage 2008 International Property Awards stored, transported, treated, disposed of, recycled or reused.
Best redevelopment for Knightstone Island, Weston-super-Mare.
lender to the borrower that approves the advance of a specified amount of mortgage funds under specified conditions.
2008 Daily Mail UK Property Awards Best redevelopment multiple units 5 award overall winner NHBC - National House-Building Council.
of category for Knightstone Island, Weston-super-Mare.
98 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 99
