Directors' remuneration report 21 REMuNERATION POLICy Pensions The Remuneration and nomination committee is responsible The Company makes annual contributions of 15% of underlying for deciding the Companys framework of executive basic salary to individual pension policies for Ben Taylor and remuneration and setting remuneration packages for each of Allen Roberts.
Neither bonus scheme payments nor other the executive directors.
benefits are eligible for pension scheme contributions.
The committees policy is to motivate and retain executive Geoff McFarland participated in the Companys defined benefit directors by rewarding them with competitive salary and scheme up to its termination on 5th April 2007 and since that benefit packages and incentives.
These are linked to the date the Companys defined contribution scheme.
More details overall performance of the Group and, in turn, to the interests are given in note 7 on page 34. of the shareholders.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the Companys The committee reviews annually all aspects of the executive pension schemes.
directors remuneration, performance and employment.
Summary REMuNERATION AND NOMINATION COMMITTEE Details of directors remuneration including pensions which form the audited section of this report are shown in note 7 on All the members of this committee are non-executive directors page 34. and a list of membership and the chair of the committee is set out on page 5.
The terms of reference of this committee are SERvICE CONTRACTS AND COMPENSATION published on the Companys website.
The executive directors have each entered into a service The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined contract with the Company.
The contracts do not contain any by the executive directors.
specific provisions governing the payment of compensation for No new appointments of directors were made during the year.
loss of office or employment, whether as a result of a takeover bid or otherwise.
The notice period for termination of the contract is twelve months to be given by either the Company or REMuNERATION the director.
Salary The non-executive directors have been appointed under The committee reviews basic salaries to take effect from 1st contracts for services which are intended to continue for an July each year.
In deciding appropriate levels, the committee initial period of three years.
However, these contracts may takes account of financial data taken from a cross-section of UK be terminated by either the Company or the director on one companies within the electronics and engineering sectors.
The salaries of all employees of the Company, including directors, were temporarily reduced by 20% from 9th February PERFORMANCE GRAPh 2009 to 31st December 2009.
The graph below shows the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance, compared with the FTSE mid 250 index, Bonus which the directors believe is the most appropriate broad index The Company introduced a revised bonus scheme for executive for comparison.
directors last year based on an assumption of improving group profit shown by the Renishaw business plan.
250 As a consequence of the reduction in group profitability reported in these accounts there will be no annual bonus for executive 200 directors in the current year.
150 There are no share options or long-term incentive schemes in operation for the directors but the position is kept under review.
100 The non-executive directors do not participate in a bonus scheme.
50 Other benefits 0 Company cars and other benefits provided to directors are 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 subject to income tax.
The benefits are included in the directors remuneration table on page 34.
Rebased to 100 at 30th June 2004 Geoff McFarland is a non-executive director of Delcam plc, in Renishaw FTSE mid 250 respect of which no remuneration is payable by Delcam plc.
The report was approved by the Board of directors on 29th July 2009 and has been signed on its behalf by:- T D Snowden FCA Chairman, Remuneration and nomination committee Annual report and accounts 2009 Return
