Governance Remuneration report Throughout this report, the members of During 2009, the Committee met eight Introduction the Executive committee, including the times.
The membership and meeting This report to RioTintos shareholders is executive directors, are collectively referred attendances are detailed in the corporate aimed at helping to explain the activities of to as executives.
The name, position and governance section on page 96.
The the Remuneration committee, its role and date of appointment of each executive is Committee reviewed its terms of responsibilities and the implementation of set out in the executive services contract reference in 2009 and concluded that its measures so as to ensure that the Groups section on page 114. responsibilities had been met and that these biggest asset its people are appropriately terms of reference remain appropriate.
Remuneration committee focused on driving continuous improvements The chairman and chief executive in performance.
responsibilities participated in meetings at the invitation The Remuneration committees role The report has been drawn up in of the Committee during 2009.
In addition, is to fulfi l the boards responsibilities accordance with the Combined Code on the Committee is supported by members to shareholders in relation to the Corporate Governance, Schedule 8 of the of senior management who regularly establishment and implementation of Large and Medium sized Companies and attend meetings to provide information as executive remuneration policy.
The Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations requested by the Committee.
These people Committees responsibilities are set out in 2008, the UK Listing Authority Listing included Hugo Bague Group executive its terms of reference which may be viewed Rules, the Australian Corporation Act 2001 People & Organisation, Jane Craighead in the corporate governance section of the and Principle 8 of the revised Australian Global practice leader, Total Rewards and website.
These responsibilities include: Securities Exchange Corporate Governance Ben Mathews company secretary, RioTinto Principles and Recommendations 2nd plc.
None of the attendees mentioned monitoring the effectiveness and edition the ASX Principles.
above were present when matters appropriateness of executive associated with their own remuneration remuneration policy and practice: International accounting standards require were considered.
disclosures in respect of key management recommending executive remuneration personnel, being those persons having policy to the board: Advisers authority and responsibility for planning, The independent advisers engaged by and reviewing and determining the terms directing and controlling the activities reporting to the Committee during 2009 of service, including remuneration of the Group, including the directors.
In addition to specialist and any termination arrangements, addition the Australian legislation requires remuneration advice, Deloitte LLP provided for the chairman, executive directors, disclosures in respect of the fi five highest taxation advice related to RioTintos share PGCEOs, Group executives and the paid executives below board level selected plans and other taxation matters.
Deloitte company secretary of RioTinto plc: from the senior managers who make, or LLP did not provide advice on executive participate in making, decisions that affect reviewing and confi rming the remuneration matters other than to the the whole, or a substantial part, of the remuneration and conditions of Committee.
The Committee has also business of the Group, or have the capacity employment for other senior managers: drawn on the services and publications of to affect signifi cantly the Groups fi financial and a range of external service providers and standing.
The Committee has determined remuneration consultants such as Towers recommending share-based long term that below board level, only members of the Watson, Hay Group, Mercer and Port incentive plans to the board.
Executive committee constitute the group Jackson Partners in relation to market data of senior managers that make decisions The Committee considers the level of and external validation of total shareholder that affect the whole, or a substantial part, pay and conditions throughout the return TSR performance.
of the business of the Group.
The Executive Group when determining executive committee comprises the executive directors remuneration.
directors, product group chief executive The Committee is committed to ensuring offi cers PGCEOs and Group executives.
that remuneration policy and practices For the purposes of this report, the Committee reward fairly and responsibly with a clear has determined that the key management link to corporate and individual performance.
personnel are, in addition to the directors, those members of the Executive committee who served during 2009.
104 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Financial Shareholder Governance statements information resource of talented executives.
It recognises support its business goals by enabling it Executive remuneration that to achieve its business objectives, the to attract, retain and appropriately reward Remuneration philosophy Group needs high quality, committed people.
Our B-E-S-T RioTintos remuneration philosophy is that approach set out below aims to align this RioTinto operates in global, as well as local philosophy with our policy: its executive remuneration policy should markets, where it competes for a limited Ensure remuneration directly supports the ultimate goal of meeting RioTintos business objectives including superior long term Business alignment shareholder value creation in a healthy, safe and environmentally appropriate way.
This means providing remuneration, including incentive plans, that: Drive and reward behaviours to achieve annual, mid and long term business priorities consistent with shareholder value creation Are competitive to attract and retain with stretching performance targets from a shareholder perspective Align executives with shareholders through shareholding requirements Reward employees for doing their jobs well by differentiating top performers who deliver shareholder value and behave consistently Empowerment with The way we work.
This means providing incentive plan features that: Reward employees based on what they can control Create a direct relationship between the payout from the plan and the individuals performance Promote the right level of risk-taking from a shareholder perspective Keep the remuneration arrangements, including incentive plan design, simple.
Simplicity This means providing: Plan features that are easy to understand Communication that is concise and comprehensive Demonstrate internal equity to employees for greater buy-in and to ensure global mobility between businesses of key management.
Transparency This means providing: Clear direction on the behaviour RioTinto is seeking Open and timely information on performance targets and how rewards are determined shareholder value creation over the short, large global organisations as represented by Remuneration policy medium and long term and to be market the FTSE 30 excluding fi financial services.
During 2009, RioTinto undertook a review competitive.
Rio Tinto will review its long Consideration is also given to remuneration of its short term incentive plan and the term incentive plan during 2010. practices in the local market where each role performance condition for its Mining is based.
Offering remuneration which is appropriately Companies Comparative Plan.
During the competitive is an important part of RioTintos The following provides details of the review process, the Company consulted remuneration policy.
RioTintos primary operation of the current remuneration with shareholders in making changes to comparator market, for executives, is the arrangements and details of how they remuneration arrangements to enhance median remuneration offered by other will operate from 2010 onwards: alignment with business strategy and Objective of component 2009 policy 2010 onwards Provides the fi xed element of the Salaries frozen since March 2008 Salaries will remain frozen in 2010 Salary fi xed remuneration package for executives Target median of international companies of similar size, global reach and complexity, including other large natural resource companies Focuses participants on achieving Maximum STIP opportunity of 120 per Maximum STIP opportunity of 200 Short term incentive calendar year performance goals cent of salary and 60 per cent of salary per cent of salary with 50 per cent plan STIP which contribute to sustainable awarded for target performance payable in cash and 50 per cent at risk shareholder value Payable wholly in cash delivered in shares generally subject Performance targets include earnings, to continued employment deferred cash fl ow, safety and individual for a three year period performance objectives Increased focus on fi financial earnings and cash fl ow targets Safety continues to be an integral part of the STIP framework Rewards participants for increasing the Market value share options vest based No changes Performance Options share price and delivering strong TSR on TSR performance against the HSBC Whilst options will be granted to Share Option Plan performance against other companies Global Mining Index as at 31 December members of the Executive committee SOP at risk of the third year after grant in 2010, the longer-term use of the Target and maximum face value of SOP will be reviewed in the context of 300 per cent of salary changing tax legislation in Australia Before awards vest the Committee must also satisfy itself that TSR performance is an appropriate refl ection of the underlying performance of the business and can adjust vesting accordingly www.
com 105 Governance Remuneration report continued Objective of component 2009 policy 2010 onwards Rewards participants for increasing the Conditional share awards vest based No changes to the length of the Performance Shares share price and delivering strong TSR on TSR ranking against a bespoke performance period or the overall Mining Companies performance against other companies comparator group of eight other mining individual plan limits Comparative Plan companies as at 31 December of the Performance measures amended to: MCCP at risk fourth year after grant 50 per cent performance relative Target award equal to face value of to the HSBC Global Mining Index 200 per cent of base salary 50 per cent performance relative 150 per cent of target award vesting to the Morgan Stanley Capital World for being ranked fi first ie a maximum Index MSCI award of 300 per cent of base salary 150 per cent of target award vesting for 23 per cent of the maximum potential outperformance of the relevant index by award vests for median performance eight per cent per annum top quartile Before awards vest the Committee must 23 per cent of the maximum potential also satisfy itself that TSR performance award vesting for index performance is an appropriate refl ection of the 0 per cent vesting below Index performance underlying performance of the business Before awards vest the Committee must and can adjust vesting accordingly also satisfy itself that TSR performance is an appropriate refl ection of the underlying performance of the business and can adjust vesting accordingly Enhance the Groups ability to attract Executive directors and PGCEOs are not From 2010, MSP awards granted to Group Service Awards and retain key staff in an increasingly eligible to participate in awards under executives will be subject to performance Management tight and competitive labour market this plan as a regular component of criteria, other than in exceptional Share Plan remuneration.
Special awards, if any, will circumstances eg recruitment MSP usually generally have performance conditions Shares to satisfy the awards are service based purchased in the market and no new shares are issued to satisfy awards Provides locally competitive Post-employment benefi t No change Post-employment post-employment benefi ts for arrangements offered Benefi ts fi xed participants in a cost effi cient manner Provides alignment with Two times salary over a fi five year period Requirement extended to the Shareholding shareholders interests for executive directors and PGCEOs Executive committee requirement variable components.
Fixed pay is base salary Committee has taken steps during the year Remuneration mix and the value of the MSP awards that are not to align the fi xed and variable elements of Consistent with the Groups business strategy related to Company performance.
Variable pay the total package with those of the other to utilise and develop high quality long term is the STIP, SOP and MCCP respectively.
The following tables illustrate mining assets, the Group seeks to achieve a the remuneration mix which is identical for remuneration mix which best refl ects the For 2010, the revised remuneration each group of identifi ed executives.
long term nature of the business.
The total structure shifts the remuneration mix more remuneration package is designed to provide towards variable pay for all executives.
an appropriate balance between fi xed and For Group executives in particular, the 2010 Remuneration mix 2009 Remuneration mix % % 1 1,3 1 2 Base salary Performance options Performance shares Annual cash bonus Annual bonus deferral Base salary MSP Performance options Performance shares Annual cash bonus Fixed 27% At risk 73% Fixed 32% At risk 68% Executive Executive directors 27% 13% 28% 16% 16% 32% 16% 33% 19% directors and PGCEO Fixed 28% At risk 72% Fixed 66% At risk 34% PGCEO and Group 28% 14% 30% 14% 14% 37% 29% 12% 22% Group executives executives 3 year bonus deferral into shares 1.
MSP, Performance options, Performance shares constitute long term incentives as detailed above.
The performance options are the percentage of each executives remuneration that consists of options.
106 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Financial Shareholder Governance statements information year.
The individual objectives for 2009 are The performance metrics for the STIP Remuneration components summarised on pages 110 and 111. described above will be maintained as the Base salary Committee continues to believe that these The table below illustrates the balance of In order to refl ect the prevailing economic are most appropriate for our business.
Going performance measures for 2009. climate and to move the mix of the package forward, however, an additive model will towards more variable pay, executive be used for determining STIP awards with Policy for 2010 onwards salaries will be frozen again in 2010.
70 per cent based on earnings, cash fl ow In consultation with shareholders, the and safety and 30 per cent on individual Committee reviewed the framework Short Term Incentive Plan STIP measures.
This represents an increased for the STIP and has decided to increase The STIP is an annual bonus plan, designed focus on fi financial and safety measures at the maximum opportunity for executives to support overall remuneration policy by this level.
The Committee believes that this under the STIP to 200 per cent of base salary focusing participants on achieving annual approach will increase simplicity and line from an existing maximum of 120 per cent.
fi financial, strategic and operational goals of sight for participants.
In the future, the For the 2010 STIP and onwards, half of any which contribute to sustainable shareholder Committee will consider supplementing the bonus earned will be payable in cash with value.
safety metrics to include measures relating the remaining 50 per cent being deferred to environmental factors in keeping with the 2009 STIP into shares which vest, generally subject to responsibility that mining companies such as continued employment, three years after the For 2009, the maximum annual bonus Rio Tinto have to limit the impact of mining deferral.
The objective of this change to the opportunity under the STIP for the executives on the environment.
STIP is to increase its competitiveness and is 120 per cent of salary target opportunity The table below illustrates the balance of to strengthen the link between the Groups of 60 per cent of salary.
This amount is performance measures for 2010. short term strategic objectives and the payable wholly in cash.
medium term delivery of shareholder value.
Bonuses payable under the STIP are based on performance against fi financial, safety and individual business objectives.
Outcomes STIP measures 2009 are based on a multiplicative approach.
The Executive directors and Group executives % PGCEOs % fi financial objectives are balanced equally Business measures RioTinto Group 50.00 20.00 between earnings performance and cash Earnings fl exed unfl exed 50% 50% 25.00 10.00 fl ow performance.
The Committee selected Cash fl ow fl exed unfl exed 50% 50% 25.00 10.00 these measures as they are key performance Business measures Product group 30.00 indicators KPIs used in managing the Earnings fl exed unfl exed 50% 50% 15.00 business.
Cash fl ow was added as a metric Cash fl ow fl exed unfl exed 50% 50% 15.00 in 2009 in recognition of the importance Total business weighting 50.00 50.00 of this measure to the business in more Individual objectives 37.50 37.50 challenging economic times.
In addition, Safety RioTinto Group Product group 12.50 12.50 the all injury frequency rate is also a KPI All Injury Free Rate AIFR 6.25 6.25 under the STIP.
Semi Quantitative Risk Assessment SQRA 3.75 3.75 As the potential impact of fl uctuations in Signifi cant Potential Incidents SPI 2.50 2.50 exchange rates and some prices are outside Total individual weighting 50.00 50.00 the control of the Group, for earnings and TOTAL business individual 100.00 100.00 cash fl ow metrics, the Committee compares on an equal weighting the actual results STIP measures 2010 onwards unfl exed and underlying performance Executive directors and Group executives % PGCEOs % fl exed for prices and exchange rates.
Business measures RioTinto Group 52.50 21.00 Safety is an important RioTinto value.
Earnings fl exed unfl exed 50% 50% 26.25 10.50 Its inclusion in STIP measured in relation Cash fl ow fl exed unfl exed 50% 50% 26.25 10.50 to all injury frequency rates, signifi cant Business measures Product group 31.50 potential incidents rate and semiEarnings fl exed unfl exed 50% 50% 15.75 quantitative risk assessment is a strong Cash fl ow fl exed unfl exed 50% 50% 15.75 reminder that employees are not to be Safety RioTinto Group Product group 17.50 17.50 put at risk when businesses target All Injury Free Rate AIFR 8.75 8.75 superior earnings and cash fl ow.
Semi Quantitative Risk Assessment SQRA 5.25 5.25 Signifi cant Potential Incidents SPI 3.50 3.50 Individual performance metrics for Total business weighting 70.00 70.00 executives are calibrated to be specifi c, Individual objectives 30.00 30.00 measurable objectives which are aligned Total individual weighting 30.00 30.00 with RioTintos strategy.
These objectives are TOTAL business individual 100.00 100.00 set with the Committee in the fi first quarter Financial measures are 75 per cent of the total business measures.
They consist of three to fi five Safety is 25 per cent of the total business measures.
performance objectives that are directly Sam Walsh is considered a PGCEO with regard to STIP performance measures.
linked to strategic business priorities for the www.
com 107 Governance Remuneration report continued the mining sector and is consistent with Long term incentives Mining Companies Comparative Plan rewarding executives for providing stable MCCP The Group operates three long term returns over the long term relative to the incentive plans: RioTintos performance share plan, the MCCP, broader market as well as the mining sector.
is designed to incentivise management to The 2004 Share Option Plan a market drive shareholder value creation.
Awards Vesting for awards is as follows: value share option plan which is subject under the plan can be made with a face value to TSR performance and has been of up to 200 per cent of base salary.
Awards Outperformance of the 150% of initial award approved by shareholders.
vest subject to RioTintos TSR performance index by 8% per annum vests compared to a bespoke comparator group as The 2004 Mining Companies Comparative Performance between index Straight-line vesting at 31 December of the fourth year after grant.
and 8% out performance Plan a performance share plan which is The comparator group for MCCP awards has Performance equal to index 23% of maximum subject to TSR performance and has also award been reconstituted several times over the last been approved by shareholders.
few years due to continued consolidation in The Management Share Plan a plan which the comparator group.
The outperformance required for maximum generally provides service based awards.
vesting has been calibrated to be equivalent The comparator group for the 2009 to upper quartile performance against these awards includes: Share Option Plan SOP indicies and, as such, is considered by the Under the SOP, options are granted to Committee to be particularly stretching.
Alcoa Freeport-McMoRan purchase shares at an exercise price based Independent analysis carried out on behalf on the share price at the date of grants.
The Anglo American Newmont Mining of the Committee illustrates that, over the maximum face value of grants under the last fi fifteen years, eight per cent per annum Barrick Gold Vale do Rio Dolce SOP is three times base salary.
out performance against both of these BHP Billiton Xstrata indices would have led to maximum vesting The vesting of options is subject to the achievement of a stretching total shareholder occurring less than 15 per cent of the time.
The vesting profi le for awards is as follows: return performance condition, comparing The Committee believes that the revised RioTintos TSR performance to that of the Rank in group Percentage vesting % performance condition provides a HSBC Global Mining Index as at 31 December more robust approach to assessing the 1st 150 of the third year after grant.
If RioTintos TSR performance of RioTinto compared to key performance is equal to the performance of 2nd 121.3 peers and are better aligned with our core the index, then the higher of one third of the 3rd 92.5 business strategy of providing stable long actual grant or 20,000 options may vest.
The 4th 63.8 term returns to investors.
full award will only vest if TSR performance 5th 35 is equal to or greater than the HSBC Global Given the market nature of the performance Mining Index plus fi five per cent per annum.
6th 9th 0 condition for MCCP awards, the Committee Between these points, options will become recognises the importance of ensuring that The comparator group and the vesting exercisable on a sliding scale.
the level of vesting is commensurate with profi le for awards granted in 2005 2008 the underlying performance of the business.
The Committee considers that TSR are broadly similar.
Therefore, when approving vesting, the is an appropriate performance measure Committee will look to satisfy itself that Where applicable, participants receive the as it captures the return RioTinto delivers cash amount of the dividends that would TSR performance is a genuine refl ection of to shareholders.
have been received had the recipient owned the value available to shareholders and the Given the market nature of the performance the shares between the grant date and the underlying performance of the Group and condition for SOP awards, the Committee vesting date.
recognises the importance of ensuring that Due to the small number of comparator the level of vesting is commensurate with Management Share Plan MSP companies and the impact of corporate the underlying performance of the business.
The primary focus of the MSP is to support transactions, on such a small group, the Therefore, when approving vesting, the the Groups ability to attract and retain key Committee has decided to move away Committee will look to satisfy itself that staff in an increasingly tight and competitive from a bespoke comparator group to two TSR performance is a genuine refl ection of labour market.
MSP awards are conditional recognised market indices for awards the value available to shareholders and the awards which vest subject to continued made from 2010 onwards.
underlying performance of the Group and employment and thus act as a strong will adjust levels accordingly.
Vesting of MCCP awards will be subject to retention tool.
Generally, these awards RioTinto TSR performance compared: do not have performance conditions.
RioTinto believes that common Executive directors and PGCEOs are remuneration arrangements should be 50 per cent to the performance of the used throughout the Group and while not eligible to participate in the service HSBC Global Mining Index: and options are still considered to be an based MSP awards.
From 2010, MSP 50 per cent to the performance of the important part of the package for the awards granted to Group executives Morgan Stanley Capital World Index.
Executive committee in 2010, a review of will be subject to performance criteria, the SOP will be undertaken in 2010 in light The use of the MSCI World Index refl ects other than in exceptional circumstances of the potential changes to the taxation the fact that RioTinto competes against a eg recruitment of key talent.
of option awards in Australia.
global market for investors as well as within 108 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Financial Shareholder Governance statements information All employee share plans an annual award of shares up to fi five per cent Limited satisfi es awards by the purchase of salary, subject to a cap of 3,000.
Under this on market and delivery of shares to plan Executives may participate in broad based share plan, employees may also make contributions participants.
RioTinto plc complies with the and share option plans which are available from salary each month to purchase shares at ABI guidelines in relation to the issue of new to Group employees generally and for which the prevailing market price subject to a cap of shares.
All other share awards are satisfi ed performance conditions do not apply.
The Company matches the by the use of shares which are purchased in plans form part of standard remuneration purchases on a one for one basis.
Further information in respect practice whereby employees are offered of the number of shares issued under plan participation in plans to encourage alignment Where, under an employee share plan arrangements can be found in note 49 to with the long term performance of the Company.
operated by the Company, participants are the fi financial statements.
Executives may participate in the RioTinto the benefi cial owners of the shares, but not plc Share Savings Plan or the RioTinto Limited the registered owner, the voting rights are Post-employment benefi ts Share Savings Plan depending on whether normally exercised by the registered owner they are employed by RioTinto plc or RioTinto Executives may participate in postat the direction of the participant.
The Plans require the participant to employment benefi t arrangements offered save for a defi ned period before exercising by the Group.
No post-employment benefi ts Dilution options granted at a discount of up to twenty are provided to non executive directors.
The Awards under the SOP and MCCP may be per cent to the market value at the time of grant.
following table details the post-employment satisfi ed by treasury shares, the issue of Grants made to executives under these plans are benefi t components for RioTintos executive new shares or the purchase of shares in the set out in Table 5 on pages 126 to 129. director population.
Currently, Rio Tinto plc satisfi es The Share Ownership Plan is available to awards by the issue of new shares or the Details of executives pension entitlements eligible employees in the UK who may receive transfer of shares from treasury.
Rio Tinto are set out in Table 2 on pages 118 and 119.
Country Executive director Post-employment benefi t UK Plan membership UK employer pension plans as provided to other UK-based employees.
Pension is indexed to the UK Retail Price Index to a maximum of ten per cent per annum.
Tom Albanese Tom Albanese specifi c provision: Target defi ned benefi t of 2 3rds of basic salary at age 60, inclusive of benefi ts accrued in the US.
Guy Elliott Guy Elliott specifi c provision: Target defi ned benefi t of 2.3 per cent of basic salary for each year of service with the Company to age 60.
Dick Evans Retirement date 31 December 2009.
Unfunded defi ned contribution benefi t. Companys contribution was 20 per cent of basic salary, plus interest.
Unfunded benefi t will be used to purchase an annuity at retirement.
Also participated in the Alcan Employee Savings Plan Canada to which the Company pays a maximum contribution of 60 per cent of any employee contribution up to four per cent of base salary.
Australia Sam Walsh Plan membership Australian employer funded superannuation plan as provided to other Australian based employees.
Target defi ned benefi t is a lump sum multiple of 4.05 times fi final basic salary at age 62.
Additional Company contribution on a defi ned contribution basis of 20 per cent of the lesser of 50 per cent of the annual STIP award or 20 per cent of basic salary.
This is in line with typical market practice in Australia.
2010 performance payment potential Provided below is the minimum and maximum performance payment potential for each current member of the Executive committee in 2010 based on the new remuneration framework.
In addition to the payments above, Jacynthe Ct has two special MSP grants which vest in 2010 as part of her legacy Alcan arrangements.
Maximum refl ects potential under the plan to vest 150 per cent of the original award for outstanding performance.
com 109 Governance Remuneration report continued Remuneration received in 2009 The table below provides a summary of the executives remuneration actually received in 2009 stated in the currency in which they were paid.
This information is provided by way of additional disclosure to assist shareholders in understanding actual remuneration outcomes.
Tables 1a and 1b on pages 116 to 118 provide the statutory disclosures.
Includes superannuation, pension, health care, expatriate payments, car allowances or cars, other perquisite payments and any special one time bonus payments as detailed in Table 1a.
The LTIP value is the expected value of the LTIP award granted in 2009.
Total pay received for time as both CEO Rio Tinto Alcan primary metal and CEO Rio Tinto Alcan.
C$ amount includes the one time special bonus payments as detailed in Table 1a.
Total pay received in US$ for time as both CEO KUC and CEO Copper.
Total pay received in for time as both CEO RTI&T and CEO Diamonds & Minerals.
Total pay received in A$ for time as both managing director strategy within Rio Tinto Australia and CEO Energy.
STIP payment made in 2010 in respect of 2009 performance.
Albanese, Elliott, Bague, Chiaro, Kenyonsustainability and joint venture management, Short Term Incentive Plan Slaney and Jacynthe Ct was adversely the Committee assessed personal performance, Performance evaluation process for affected due to fatalities in the Group.
including product group safety, as 123 per cent individual executives of target.
The overall STIP award is 148 per cent Annual Bonus STIP Performance of target which is 89 per cent of salary.
RioTinto conducts an annual performance Assessment for 2009 evaluation process for all of its senior Dick Evans executives.
In the case of members of the Tom Albanese Based on individual objectives related to the Executive committee, the chief executive Based on individual objectives related to the transition of duties to new leadership and conducts the review.
In the case of the chief strengthening of the balance sheet, achieving the delivery of integration activities and executive, the chairman of the Committee signifi cant cost reductions brought on by the fi financial synergies, the Committee assessed conducts the review in conjunction with the economic downturn and the reorganisation of personal performance, including product chairman of the board.
the product groups and Executive committee, group safety, as 92 per cent of target.
The the Committee assessed personal performance, overall STIP award is 108 per cent of target The key objectives of the performance including Group safety, as 92.5 per cent of target.
which is 65 per cent of salary.
evaluation process are to: The overall STIP award is 108 per cent of target Hugo Bague Improve organisational effectiveness which is 65 per cent of salary.
by creating alignment between the Based on individual objectives related Guy Elliott executives individual objectives and to talent retention and engagement, Based on individual objectives related to organisational and workforce management, RioTintos business strategy.
the strengthening of the balance sheet, development of a business driven Provide a consistent, transparent and leadership of the CFO function, and communities practice, and improvement balanced approach to measure, recognise divestments, the Committee assessed on the focus and intensity of internal and reward executive performance.
personal performance, including Group communications, the Committee assessed safety, as 117 per cent of target.
The overall personal performance, including Group Annual individual objectives are fi nalised STIP award is 136 per cent of target which safety, as 117 per cent of target.
The overall at the beginning of the calendar year.
STIP award is 136 per cent of target which Performance evaluations are completed is 79 per cent of salary.
during early January of the following year.
Sam Walsh Individual objectives and awards in respect Based on individual objectives related to the Preston Chiaro of 2009 for the executives are set out below.
proposed iron ore production joint venture, Based on individual objectives related As outlined above, there is a rigorous annual leadership of Rio Tinto China Asia and to management of asset divestments, evaluation process undertaken during Rio Tinto India and West Africa, effective progression of the climate and energy strategy which performance against stated objectives implementation of the Planning and Rio Tinto and cash fl ow initiatives, the Committee is assessed.
Personal performance for Messrs Iron Ore operations centre, and the business assessed personal performance, including 110 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Financial Shareholder Governance statements information product group safety, as 83 per cent of target.
business unit safety, as 94 per cent of target.
The delivery on key corporate projects and cost The overall STIP award is 90 per cent of target overall STIP award is 88 per cent of target which management, the Committee assessed which is 54 per cent of salary.
personal performance, including Group safety, as 119 per cent of target.
The overall Bret Clayton Doug Ritchie STIP award is 139 per cent of target which is Based on individual objectives related to Based on individual objectives related to the 82 per cent of salary.
the progress of development projects and successful transition of his managing director identifi cation of new opportunities and the strategy duties and the objectives of his Long term incentive programmes successful management of the slowdown of previous role as managing director strategy, Performance of RioTinto major projects in Diamonds group and its the Committee assessed personal performance, impact on the business units, the Committee The Companies share price showed strong including Group safety, as 119 per cent of assessed personal performance, including improvement in 2009 as a result of RioTintos target.
The overall STIP award is 141 per cent product group safety, as 105 per cent of cost containment measures, completion of of target which is 74 per cent of salary.
The overall STIP award is 127 per cent divestments and the strengthening of the Grant Thorne of target which is 76 per cent of salary.
Based on individual objectives related to the Jacynthe Ct The graph illustrates the performance of the major project execution, progression of key Based on individual objectives related to the Company against the FTSE 100, the ASX technology initiatives and leadership of T&I delivery of integration goals, cash initiatives, All Ordinaries Index, and the HSBC Global Group, the Committee assessed personal and management of business sustainability Mining Index.
These indexes have been performance, including T&I safety, as 103 and key stakeholders, the Committee chosen as they represent major markets per cent of target.
The overall STIP award is assessed personal performance, including and the mining sector in which the Group 120 per cent of target which is 72 per cent product group safety, as 117 per cent of competes for investors.
The overall STIP award is 139 per cent of target which is 83 per cent of salary.
The effect of this performance on shareholder Debra Valentine wealth, as measured by TSR delivered during Based on individual objectives related Andrew Harding the relevant calendar year, is detailed in the to the leadership of the legal, external Based on individual objectives related to table below.
relations, security and compliance functions, the successful transition of business unit managing director duties and the objectives of his previous role as president KUC, the TSR US$ Rio Tinto Group vs FTSE100, ASX All Share and HSBC Global Mining Index Committee assessed personal performance, Total return basis index 2004 100 including business unit safety, as 134 per cent Key Rio Tinto DLC FTSE 100 of target.
The overall STIP award is 174 per ASX All share cent of target which is 95 per cent of salary.
HSBC Index 400 Harry Kenyon-Slaney Based on individual objectives related to the 300 successful transition of business unit managing director duties and the objectives of his previous 200 role as managing director RTIT, the Committee 100 assessed personal performance, including 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009, Rio Tinto shareholder return 2005-2009 Dividends paid Share price Share price Year during the year Rio Tinto plc pence Rio Tinto Limited A$ Total shareholder return TSR % US cents per share 1 Jan 31 Dec 1 Jan 31 Dec plc Ltd Group 2009 68.0 1,231 3,390 29.97 74.89 182.2 156.7 172.5 2008 152.0 4,392 1,231 105.65 29.97 71.5 71.1 71.5 2007 116.0 2,245 4,392 58.60 105.65 99.5 82.9 92.7 2006 191.5 2,193 2,245 54.42 58.60 6.2 9.2 7.5 2005 83.5 1,266 2,193 30.86 54.42 77.4 80.2 78.5 LTIP Award Results RioTinto Group and product group performance during 2009, and over the performance periods of the long term incentive plans which ended on 31 December 2009, affected executives remuneration as follows: MCCP Plan Period Plan period that ended 31 December 2009 Comparator Companies Alcoa, Anglo American, Barrick Gold, BHP Billiton, Cameco, Freeport-McMoRan, Gmexico B, Newmont Mining, Peabody Energy, Teck Cominco, Vale do Rio Dolce, Xstrata TSR Ranking 6th 44.8 per cent TSR % of Shares Vested 39.60 per cent of initial award 26.4 per cent of maximum for executive directors and participants who were PGCEOs at the time of the grant and 57.1 per cent for all other plan participants based on TSR results.
The Committee believes that this is consistent with the Companys underlying performance over the four year vesting period.
The vesting matrix for the 2006 award which vested in 2010 was adjusted in 2007 by the Committee to refl ect industry consolidation.
com 111 Governance Remuneration report continued SOP Plan Period Plan period that ended 31 December 2009 HSBC Mining Index TSR 10.20 per cent RioTinto TSR -6.20 per cent % of shares vested 0 per cent vested based on TSR results as reviewed and approved by the Committee and were cancelled Despite a strong share price recovery in 2009, the share price for each performance period included baseline prices from periods of very strong commodity markets that existed prior to the 2008-9 downturn therefore share options granted in 2007 did not vest and were cancelled.
MSP Plan Period Plan period that ended 31 December 2009 % of shares vested 100.00 per cent Executive directors and PGCEOs are not eligible for awards under this plan.
From 2010, MSP awards granted to Group executives will be subject to performance criteria, other than in exceptional circumstances, for example the recruitment of key talent.
Messrs Harding, Kenyon-Slaney and Ritchie SOP becoming PGCEOs.
Doug Ritchie received The awards are service-based with no Options over either RioTinto plc or an additional award of A$835,000 in performance conditions and vest subject to RioTinto Limited shares, as appropriate, recognition of his particular contribution to continuous employment, on 1 January 2012. were granted to each executive under the the business as managing director, strategy.
Executive directors and PGCEOs are not SOP on 17 March 2009.
The performance Of this, A$275,550 was paid in cash and eligible for service-based awards other than condition for these awards is as outlined A$559,450 as MSP shares as detailed in in relation to bonus deferrals as occurred in in the policy section above.
MCCP Integration bonuses As disclosed in Other payments during 2009 the 2008 remuneration report, Dick A conditional award of performance Evans was eligible for a RioTinto Alcan shares in either RioTinto plc or RioTinto This section provides information on integration bonus of up to 426 per cent Limited shares was made to each executive any one-time payments made during the of salary US$6,397,500 at target and under the MCCP on 17 March 2009.
The year which are not a core element of the 640 per cent of salary US$9,596,250 at performance condition for these awards is remuneration package.
The Committee determined as outlined in the policy section above.
Retention of key talent In 2007, at the that this bonus was justifi ed in order to time of the pre-conditional offer from BHP MSP lock in the essential skills and knowledge Billiton, RioTinto introduced a retention The objective of service based awards, when of Dick Evans and to incentivise him programme for key executives below the they are used for employees, is to enhance to deliver synergies and accelerate the level of executive director and PGCEO.
Each year, for senior management integration of RioTinto Alcan into the Retention payments under this programme below the Executive committee level, the Group.
The Committee has reviewed were made in December 2008 and July performance against the objectives set Committee will determine the make-up of 2009.
Hugo Bague, Andrew Harding, the long term incentive grant by employee for this bonus and determined that Harry Kenyon-Slaney and Doug Ritchie level.
Given market and industry conditions Dick Evans should receive 71 per cent in 2009, the Committee decided to use received payments under this programme of the target reward or 301 per cent of service-based awards for a portion of as detailed in Table 1.
This refl ects the 112 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Financial Shareholder Governance statements information exceptional synergy savings generated This payment was in addition to the 12 compliance with the Rules.
All employees over the past two years, the strong months notice period provided for in his subject to the Rules receive regular training progress in developing and appointing contract.
In addition, Keith Johnson will and information.
a successor and the organisational and be reimbursed for taxation and fi finance Executives external and cultural integration of Rio Tinto Alcan planning advice not to exceed 10,000 other appointments into the wider Group.
The payments are Executives may be invited to become non detailed in Table 1a.
The payments Alcan Inc long term cash plan executive directors of other companies.
It detailed above are in line with his Consistent with its normal granting is RioTintos policy that such appointments contract and local policy.
Given Keith schedule, in September 2007 the human can broaden their experience and Johnsons many years of service and resources committee of the board of knowledge, to the benefi t of the Group.
performance the Committee considers the former Alcan Inc approved the fi final This policy limits each executives external these payments appropriate.
long term incentive award made prior to directorships to one FTSE 100 company or Alcan Inc being acquired by RioTinto.
Consequently, where there is Other remuneration To encourage retention of Alcan Inc no likelihood that such a directorship will employees, the last award did not vest at disclosures give rise to a confl ict of interest, the boards the change of control in October 2007 will normally give their consent to the and was made in the form of a long term RioTinto rights issue appointment.
The executive is permitted to cash award that vested on 15 December In July 2009 the Group undertook a capital retain the fees earned.
2009 subject to participants remaining in raising as discussed in the Directors report In the course of 2009 the following employment.
Jacynthe Ct was granted on page 91.
As permitted under the rules of executives received fees from external an award under the 2007 Alcan long the RioTinto share plans, adjustments were term cash plan in September 2007 and appointments: Guy Elliott received made to ensure that the value of options received payment of the award when it US$124,000 2008: US$89,000 and Sam and awards held by participants was not vested in December 2009 as reported in Walsh A$120,000.00 2008: A$10,000.
signifi cantly impacted by the rights issue.
Dick Evans was not eligible for a Company secretary remuneration These adjustments are shown in Tables 4a, payment in December 2009.
The adjustments refl ected the The executive remuneration policy applies further payments to be made under the plan rules and governing laws and involved to the company secretary of each of 2007 Alcan long term cash plan.
the award of additional shares or options RioTinto plc and RioTinto Limited.
They One-off long term incentive grant and the adjustment of the exercise price of participate in the same performanceUpon promotion to the role of PGCEO outstanding options.
based remuneration arrangements as the RioTinto Alcan, and based on the terms executives.
The individual performanceof her legacy Alcan Inc. contract, Jacynthe Shareholding policy for executives measures for the company secretaries STIP Ct was granted a one-time conditional The Company recognises the importance of comprise Group and individual objectives.
award of shares equal to 25 per cent aligning directors and executives interests Their personal measures refl ect the key of her current annual base salary to with those of shareholders and they are responsibilities of the company secretarial incentivise her to deliver synergy savings therefore expected to build up a shareholding.
role and include ensuring compliance with and to promote the effective integration The Committee determined that executive regulatory requirements, oversight of good of Rio Tinto Alcan from an organisational directors should aim to reach a holding corporate governance practice and the and cultural perspective.
The award is equivalent in value to two times their base provision of corporate secretarial services.
subject to performance conditions which salary over three years and PGCEOs should provide for 50 per cent of the award to aim to achieve this over fi five years.
From 2010, Executive service contracts vest on 1 February 2010 and 50 per cent all members of the Executive committee will All executives have service contracts that on 1 February 2011 if the performance be subject to the same shareholding policy as can be terminated by the Company giving conditions are met.
Effective from October the executive directors.
12 months notice in writing, or immediately 2007, Jacynthe Ct was also granted a by paying base salary only in lieu of any one-off service based, special retention Share dealing policy unexpired notice period with the following grant as part of her legacy Alcan Inc. Key management personnel and employee exceptions: for Debra Valentine, the arrangements on assuming the role insiders are bound by the Rules for dealing Company must provide six months notice of president and CEO Primary Metals, in RioTinto securities Rules which are in writing and for Jacynthe Ct where RioTinto Alcan.
Forty per cent of the award available on the Rio Tinto website.
Directors the 12 months notice includes salary and vested on 25 January 2009 and 60 per cent and executives are required to certify target bonus opportunity in line with typical vests on 25 October 2010.
The payment that they do not hold any price sensitive market practice in Canada and her legacy made under this award is detailed in information when seeking clearance to Alcan Inc. contract.
Executives If termination is a result of a redundancy, Termination As disclosed in the 2008 participate in long term incentive plans then the terms of the relevant policy remuneration report, Keith Johnsons which involve the award of RioTinto would apply in the same way it would position was deemed redundant and securities at a future date.
The board has a apply to other local employees.
In the case he left the Group on 31 July 2009 after policy contained in the Rules prohibiting of involuntary termination, Jacynthe Ct many valued years of service.
Consistent an executive from limiting his or her would receive 24 months salary and bonus with policy, Keith Johnson received exposure to risk in relation to the securities.
inclusive of notice as per her entitlement a redundancy payment equal to 12 The grants of shares and options under months base salary plus car allowance.
the incentive plans are conditional upon www.
com 113 Governance Remuneration report continued in her legacy Alcan Inc. contract.
portion of the performance period worked.
Outstanding awards and options would Options or performance shares will vest at the normally vest and become exercisable In the case of dismissal for cause, employment on a change of control on a pro-rata normal vesting date subject to performance may be terminated by the Company without basis, subject to the satisfaction of any against the performance condition.
Options notice and without payment of any salary or performance conditions at that time.
or performance shares held for less than 12 compensation in lieu of notice.
The annual months at the date of termination are reduced From 1 November 2009, Grant Thorne bonus and outstanding awards under the long pro-rata.
MSP awards vest pro-rata upon stood down from the Executive committee term incentive programme are forfeited.
No awards vest if a participant and became a special adviser to undertake The rules of the STIP and the long term a knowledge transfer prior to his intended resigns or is terminated for cause.
incentive plans cover any entitlements retirement on 1 November 2011.
A new Contractual entitlements to severance participants may have on termination.
If contract was entered into with Grant are not triggered by a change of control.
termination is due to any reason besides cause Thorne that continues his current All of the Companys share plans contain or resignation, then participants are eligible employment conditions until his retirement to receive a pro-rata STIP paid based on the provisions relating to a change of control.
Date of Notice period 2010 Name Position s held appointment Contract end date Base salary Executive directors Tom Albanese Chief executive 1-May-07 12 months 907,500 Guy Elliott Chief fi financial offi cer 19-Jun-02 12 months 675,500 1 Dick Evans Special adviser 1-Feb-09 31-Dec-09 N A ED & CEO RioTinto Alcan 25-Oct-07 Sam Walsh ED & CEO Iron Ore and Australia 5-Jun-09 12 months A$1,475,000 CEO Iron Ore 1-Nov-04 Other members of executive committee Hugo Bague Group executive People & Organisation Support 1-Aug-07 12 months 360,000 Preston Chiaro Group executive Technology & Innovation 1-Nov-09 12 months US$725,000 CEO Energy & Minerals 15-Nov-07 Bret Clayton Group executive Business Support & Operations 1-Nov-09 12 months US$700,000 CEO Copper & Diamonds 15-Nov-07 Jacynthe Ct CEO RioTinto Alcan 1-Feb-09 12 months US$825,000 CEO Primary Metal RTA 25-Oct-07 Andrew Harding CEO Copper 1-Nov-09 12 months US$650,000 CEO KUC 1-Nov-07 Keith Johnson N A Harry Kenyon-Slaney CEO Diamonds & Minerals 1-Nov-09 12 months 360,000 MD RTI&T 1-Mar-07 Doug Ritchie CEO Energy 1-Nov-09 12 months A$850,000 MD Strategy 19-Nov-07 Grant Thorne Special adviser 1-Nov-09 31-Oct-11 A$920,000 Group executive Technology & Innovation 1-Jun-07 6 months US$570,000 Debra Valentine Group executive Legal & External Affairs 15-Jan-08 1.
Dick Evans was not entitled to receive any termination payment at the cessation of his contract on 31 December 2009. remuneration and he does not participate executive directors receive a fi xed annual Chairman and non in the Groups incentive plans or pension fee comprising a base fee, committee executive directors arrangements.
The chairman receives a membership or committee chairmanship fees, fi xed fee and does not receive additional as applicable, and fees for attending meetings remuneration payment for committee membership or which involve medium or long distance air overseas travel.
RioTinto does not pay retirement Remuneration policy benefi ts or allowances to non executive Non executive directors Chairman directors, nor do any of them participate in The Chairmans committee comprising the The Remuneration committee determines any of the Groups incentive plans.
chairman, the chief executive and the chief the terms of service, including remuneration, The Chairmans committee reviewed the non fi financial offi cer, annually reviews the level of the chairman.
executive directors fees during 2009 to take of non executive directors fees, including account of market and related developments It is RioTintos policy that the chairman fees for committee work and overseas travel.
should be remunerated on a competitive and made no increase to annual base fees or Fees paid to non executive directors refl ect basis and at a level which refl ects his committee fees.
The fees are detailed in the their respective duties and responsibilities contribution to the Group, as assessed by and the time required to be spent by them table on page 115. the board.
The chairman is not present at so as to make a meaningful and effective any discussion regarding his own contribution to the affairs of RioTinto.
Non 114 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Financial Shareholder Governance statements information for election at the 2010 annual general Reports Regulations 2008, the information Remuneration components meetings.
There are no provisions for included in respect of the non executive The table below sets out the annual fees compensation payable on termination of directors and the directors short term payable to the chairman and the non any non executive directors appointment.
employee benefi ts and termination benefi ts executive directors in A$, as appropriate.
in Tables 1a and 1b, and the information Jim Leng was appointed as a non executive Remuneration paid during 2009 included in respect of the directors accrued director and chairman designate on benefi ts, transfer values and defi ned 14 January 2009.
His letter of appointment Details of each element of remuneration contribution pension in Table 2, Tables provided for an annual fee upon his paid to the chairman and non executive 4a and 4b and Table 5 are all auditable.
appointment as chairman of 650,000. directors during 2009 is set out in Table 1b In the interim period, his fee as a non non executive directors remuneration.
No The Australian Securities and Investments executive director and chairman designate post employment, long term or termination Commission issued an order dated was set at 50 per cent of this amount.
Jim payments were paid and no share based 27 January 2006 and amended on Leng resigned from the board on 9 February payments made.
The total payments 22 December 2006 under which the 2009.
No termination payments were made to the chairman and non executive information included in the Remuneration payable and the amounts disclosed in Table directors come within the maximum report to comply with paragraph 25 of 1b on page 118 refl ect amounts paid for Jim aggregate annual amount of 3 million Australian Accounting Standard AASB 124 Lengs services during this period.
set out in the Groups constitutional Related Party Disclosures relating to key documents and which was approved by Paul Skinner retired as chairman on 20 April management personnel compensation is shareholders at the 2009 annual general 2009 and was succeeded by Jan du Plessis.
Mr Skinner remained as an adviser to the Tables 1, executive and non executive board on his existing terms and conditions directors set out in Table 1a and 1b Shareholding policy until 14 July 2009.
The amounts shown respectively, 3, 4 and 5 and the disclosures In 2006, the board recommended that non Table 1b on page 118 refl ect amounts paid provided under the headings executive executive directors be encouraged to build to Paul Skinner until that date.
remuneration and chairman and non up a shareholding within three years of their executive director remuneration.
Jan du Plessis letter of appointment appointment equal in value to one year of stipulates his duties as chairman of the the base fee.
To help facilitate this, the Group Annual general meetings Group.
His appointment may be terminated put in place a non executive directors share without liability on the part of RioTinto Shareholders will be asked to vote on this purchase plan through which non executive in accordance with the constitutional Remuneration report at the Companies directors could elect to invest a proportion documents dealing with retirement by 2010 annual general meetings.
of their fees net of tax on a regular basis to rotation, disqualifi cation from offi ce or acquire shares on the open market.
Details of By order of the board other vacation from offi ce.
Otherwise his non executive directors share interests in the appointment may be terminated by giving Group are set out in Table 3 on page 119.
The chairman receives a base fee and no additional committee, Letters of appointment attendance or travel fees.
He is provided Non executive directors have formal letters with a car and driver for business purposes, of appointment setting out their duties and private medical insurance and participates responsibilities.
These letters are available in the RioTinto Medical Expenses Plan for inspection at RioTinto plcs registered which Group employees are eligible to offi ce, and at the annual general meeting.
He is also covered under the Groups Ben Mathews Each non executive director is appointed accident policy.
These are disclosed as by the boards subject to their subsequent Secretary benefi ts in Table 1 on page 118. election and periodic re-election by Remuneration committee shareholders as detailed on page 97.
Auditable information 5 March 2010 Ann Godbehere and Robert Brown were appointed with effect from 9 February 2010 Under Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium and 1 April 2010 respectively and will stand sized Companies and Groups Accounts and As at 31 Dec 2009 As at 31 Dec 2008 Director fees Non executive director base fee 70,000 A$160,000 70,000 A$160,000 Chairmans fee 700,000 693,000 Senior independent director 35,000 35,000 Committee fees Audit committee chairman 30,000 30,000 Audit committee member 15,000 A$37,500 15,000 A$37,500 Remuneration committee chairman 20,000 20,000 Remuneration committee member 10,000 A$25,000 10,000 A$25,000 Nominations committee member 7,500 7,500 Committee on social and environmental accountability chairman 20,000 20,000 Committee on social and environmental accountability member 7,500 A$18,750 7,500 A$18,750 Overseas meeting allowances Long distance fl ights over 10 hours per journey 4,000 A$10,000 4,000 A$10,000 Medium distance fl ights of 5-10 hours per journey 2,000 A$5,000 2,000 A$5,000 www.
The total remuneration is reported in US dollars.
The amounts can be converted into sterling at the rate of US$1 0.6389, into Australian dollars at the rate of US$1 A$1.2637 or alternatively into Canadian dollars at the rate of US$1 C$1.13740, each being the average exchange rate for 2009.
The annual cash bonus is payable under the STIP and this may be converted at the 2009 year end exchange rate of US$1 0.6222 to ascertain the sterling equivalent, US$1 A$1.1179 to calculate the Australian dollar value or alternatively, US$1 C$1.0546 to calculate the Canadian dollar value.
The 2009 fi gures reported in this table are less than the 2008 fi gures due to exchange rate variation.
Cash bonus includes STIP and other special one-off bonuses as described in the Remuneration report on page 110 to 113.
It includes a retention payment for Andrew Harding, Hugo Bague, Doug Ritchie and Harry Kenyon-Slaney.
For Jacynthe Ct, it also includes the 2007 Alcan LTI payout and the COC award payment.
For Doug Ritchie, it also includes a one-off recognition award cash payment.
Other cash based benefi ts include cash in lieu of a car and fuel and cash in lieu of holiday.
For Hugo Bague and Harry Kenyon-Slaney, it also includes a cash supplement equal to 20 per cent of the amount by which their Contributory Salary exceeds the Earning Cap as defi ned in the Rio Tinto Pension Fund.
Cash in lieu of company share dividend payments is included for Hugo Bague.
Non monetary benefi ts for executives include healthcare, the provision of a car, fl exible perquisites and secondment costs comprising housing, education, professional advice, tax equalisation and relocation payments made to and on behalf of executives living outside their home country.
For Harry Kenyon-Slaney and Andrew Harding, it includes a 2008 tax payable that was paid by the Company in 2009.
For Tom Albanese and Guy Elliott, it includes the cost of spouse travel and the value of company provided transport.
Rio Tinto provides accident cover for employee members of the Rio Tinto Pension Fund.
Some of the executive directors and key management personnel are members of the Rio Tinto Pension Fund: the total premium paid in 2009 was US$7,827.
Total short term benefi ts represents the short term benefi ts total required by the UK Companies Act 2006 and total remuneration under the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and applicable accounting standards.
The value of share based awards has been determined in accordance with the recognition and measurement requirements of IFRS2 Share-based Payment.
The fair value of awards granted under the Share Option Plan SOP, the Management Share Plan MSP, the Bonus Deferral Plan BDP and the Share Savings Plan SSP have been calculated at their dates of grant using an independent lattice-based option valuation model provided by external consultants, Lane Clark and Peacock LLP.
Some of these awards will be settled in cash, rather than the transfer of shares, and so the fair value of these cash settled awards has been calculated based on Rio Tintos share price at 31 December 2009.
The fair value of awards granted under the Mining Companies Comparative Plan the MCCP has been calculated using a Monte Carlo valuation model based on the market price of shares and their relative TSR performance at 31 December 2009.
Over 2009, the increase in Rio Tintos share price, has led to a signifi cant increase in the value attached to the MCCP under the IFRS2 accounting standard.
Further details of the valuation methods and assumptions used for these awards are included in note 49 Share Based Payments in the 2009 fi financial statements.
The fair value of other share based awards is measured at the purchase cost of the shares from the market.
The non executive directors do not participate in the long term incentive share schemes.
Deferred shares represents the deferral of the 2008 bonus under STIP into Rio Tinto shares.
CCA Company Contributed Awards represents the shares provided to employees below the executive directors and PGCEO level under the 2008 bonus deferral programme to provide and enhance retention.
Others include the Share Savings Plan and Share Ownership Plan as described in the section on other share awards on page 109.
The costs shown for defi ned benefi t pension plans and post retirement medical benefi ts are the service costs attributable to the individual, calculated in accordance with IAS19.
The cost for defi ned contribution plans is the amount for Dick Evans, contributed in the year by the Company.
American PGCEOs enjoy a Company matching of personal contribution for shares under the 401K arrangements up to a maximum of US$14,700.
The Company matched personal contributions of US$14,700 for: Preston Chiaro, Bret Clayton and Debra Valentine.
For Jacynthe Ct and Dick Evans, base salary is paid in US dollars.
All other short term benefi ts received are paid in Canadian dollars.
The amounts can be converted into sterling at the rate of US$1 0.6389 or alternatively into Australian dollars at the rate of US$1 A$1.2637, each being the average exchange rate for 2009.
The Other cash based benefi ts for non executive directors comprise overseas meeting allowances.
The values of car and fuel allowances are included for Paul Skinner.
Non monetary benefi ts include for Jim Leng the cost of accompanied travel in 2009.
For Richard Goodmanson, it includes the value of professional advice received.
For Paul Skinner and Jan du Plessis, it includes the value of company provided transport and medical insurance premiums.
The value of a retirement gift is also included for Paul Skinner.
Rio Tinto plc provides accident cover for non executive directors: the total premium paid in 2009 was US$6,418.
Represents short term benefi ts total required under the UK Companies Act 2006 and total remuneration under Australian Corporations Act 2001 and applicable accounting standards.
Table 2 Directors pension entitlements as at 31 December 2009 Defi ned benefi t pensions Accrued benefi ts Transfer values At At Change in Change, net Transfer value of Years of 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2009 Change in accrued benefi ts accrued benefi t of personal change in accrued 1 service 000 pa 000 pa during the year ended 31 net of infl ation At 31 Dec At 31 Dec contributions benefi t net of 1 Age completed pension pension Dec 2009 000 pa pension 000 pa pension 2008 000 2009 000 000 infl ation 000 UK Directors 2, 3, 4 Tom Albanese 52 28 286 336 50 43 2,836 4,060 1,224 692 3 Guy Elliott 54 29 434 456 22 12 6,728 7,706 978 196 A$000 A$000 A$000 A$000 lump sum lump sum lump sum lump sum A$000 A$000 A$000 A$000 Australian Director Sam Walsh 60 18 4,904 5,203 299 237 4,904 5,203 218 237 Notes to Table 2 1.
Price infl ation is calculated as the increase in the relevant retail or consumer price index over the year to 31 December 2009, except for Australia where a September to September change is used.
Tom Albanese became a director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited with effect from 7 March 2006.
He accrued pension benefi ts in the US plans for service up to 30 June 2006, and is accruing benefi ts under the UK fund for subsequent service.
The transfer value of benefi ts in the UK plans is calculated in a manner consistent with Retirement Benefi t Schemes Transfer Values GN11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries.
The transfer value of benefi ts in the US plans is represented by the Accumulated Benefi t Obligation calculated on the accounting assumptions used for the Groups post-retirement benefi ts disclosures.
118 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Financial Shareholder Governance statements information Table 2 Directors pension entitlements as at 31 December 2009 continued Defi ned contribution pensions Company Contributions Age Years of service completed Year to 31 Dec 2008 US$000 Year to 31 Dec 2009 US$000 UK Director 5 Dick Evans 62 2 338 342 A$000 A$000 Australian Director Sam Walsh 60 18 54 59 Notes to Table 2 5.
Dick Evans became a director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited with effect from 25 October 2007 and has a UK unfunded defi ned contribution benefi t. He also participated in the Alcan Employee Savings Plan.
He ceased to be an executive director on 20 April 2009 and retired on 31 December 2009.
Or date of appointment, if later.
Or date of retirement, or resignation or at date no longer a KMP, if earlier.
Shares obtained through the exercise of options under the Rio Tinto Share Savings Plan or the Rio Tinto Share Option Plan.
The number of shares retained may differ from the number of options exercised.
Shares obtained through the Rio Tinto Share Ownership Plan and or vesting of awards under the Mining Companies Comparative Plan or Management Share Plan.
Share movements due to sale or purchase of shares, shares received under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan, shares purchased sold through the Rio Tinto America Savings Plan or non executive directors share purchase plan.
The shareholdings of Tom Albanese, Preston Chiaro and Bret Clayton include Rio Tinto plc ADRs held through the Rio Tinto America Savings Plan.
The balances at 31 December 2008 for the following individuals were understated in the 2008 Remuneration report: Tom Albanese by 97 Rio Tinto plc shares: Hugo Bague by 50 Rio Tinto plc shares: Guy Elliott by 52 Rio Tinto plc shares and Andrew Gould by 77 Rio Tinto plc shares.
Or at date of appointment, if later.
Balance as at 1 January 2009 relates to awards granted for service prior to being designated a KMP for remuneration report disclosure purposes.
Or at date of resignation, or at date no longer a KMP, if earlier.
Awards denominated in pounds sterling were for Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares of 10p each and awards denominated in Australian dollars were for Rio Tinto Limited shares.
The weighted fair value per share of conditional awards granted in 2009 was as follows: Bonus Deferral Plan was 17.32 adjusted for rights issue for Rio Tinto plc and A$41.75 adjusted for rights issue for Rio Tinto Limited: Mining Companies Comparative Plan was 13.56 adjusted for rights issue for Rio Tinto plc and A$32.74 adjusted for rights issue for Rio Tinto Limited: Management Share Plan was 17.32 March 2009 grant as adjusted for rights issue and 26.17 September 2009 grant for Rio Tinto plc and A$41.77 March 2009 grant as adjusted for rights issue and A$59.15 September 2009 grant for Rio Tinto Limited.
Conditional awards are awarded at no cost to the recipient and no amount remains unpaid on any shares granted.
Where an election was made prior to 18 February 2010 the transaction value is shown based on share prices, being the respective closing prices for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares.
Otherwise the value of vested awards has been based on share prices of 34.41 and A$72.10 respectively being the closing prices for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares on 18 February 2010, the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this report.
The amount in US dollars has been converted from sterling at the rate of 1 US1.5652 and Australian dollars at the rate of A$1 US$0.7913, being the average exchange rate for 2009 used elsewhere in the Annual report.
For information on the rights issue please see Other remuneration disclosures in the Remuneration report.
100 per cent of the 2008 bonus under STIP was deferred into Rio Tinto shares.
50 per cent of the 2008 bonus under STIP was deferred into Rio Tinto shares which vests equally in 2010 and 2011.
In addition, a Company Contribution Award was made which vests equally in 2010 and 2011.
Balance as at 1 January 2009 relates to awards granted for service prior to being designated a KMP for Remuneration report disclosure purposes.
All options granted over ordinary shares.
Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares of 10p each stated in sterling: Rio Tinto Limited shares stated in Australian dollars.
Each option is granted over one share.
The closing price of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares at 31 December 2009 was 33.90 2008: 14.90 and the closing price of Rio Tinto Limited shares at 31 December 2009 was A$74.89 2008: A$133.50.
The adjusted high and low prices during 2009 of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares were 34.20 and 11.40 and A$74.89 and A$29.38 respectively.
The option prices represents the exercise price payable on the options.
No amounts are unpaid on any shares allocated on the exercise of options.
The weighted fair value per option granted in 2009 was as follows: Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan two year contract 7.96: three year contract 9.70: four year contract 9.30 and fi five year contract 9.28: Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan three year contract A$21.09 and fi five year contract A$20.63.
Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan 5.47 March 2009 grant as adjusted for the rights issue and 8.29 September 2009 grant : Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan A$13.36 March 2009 grant as adjusted for the rights issue.
The value of options exercised during 2009 is calculated by multiplying the number of options exercised by the difference between the market price and the option price on date of exercise.
No options lapsed for failure to satisfy a performance condition.
For information on the rights issue please see Other remuneration disclosures on page 113.
com 129 Financial statements 2009 Financial statements Contents Page Primary financial statements Additional disclosures Page Group income statement 131 Note 31 Operating segments 176 Group statement of comprehensive income 132 Note 32 Operating segments additional information 179 Group cash flow statement 133 Note 33 Financial risk management 180 Group statement of financial position 134 Note 34 Financial instruments 185 Group statement of changes in equity 135 Note 35 Contingent liabilities and commitments 192 Reconciliation with Australian IFRS 136 Note 36 Average number of employees 193 Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis 136 Note 37 Principal subsidiaries 194 of financial statements Note 38 Principal jointly controlled entities 195 Note 39 Principal associates 196 Notes to the 2009 financial statements Note 40 Principal jointly controlled assets and other 196 Note 1 Principal accounting policies 137 proportionally consolidated units Note 41 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, 197 Group income statement associates and other interests in businesses Note 2 Reconciliation of net earnings to underlying earnings 155 Note 42 Directors and key management remuneration 198 Note 3 Net operating costs 156 Note 43 Auditors remuneration 199 Note 4 Employment costs 156 Note 44 Related party transactions 200 Note 5 Impairment charges 157 Note 45 Exchange rates in US$ 200 Note 6 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 157 Note 46 Rights issues 201 Note 7 Interest receivable and payable 157 Note 47 Bougainville Copper Limited BCL 201 Note 8 Tax on profit 158 Note 48 Events after the statement of financial position date 201 Note 9 Earnings loss per ordinary share 159 Note 49 Share based payments 202 Note 10 Dividends 160 Note 50 Post retirement benefits 208 Note 51 Rio Tinto Limited balance sheet 213 Group statement of financial position Note 52 Rio Tinto Limited balance sheet disclosures 214 Note 11 Goodwill 160 Note 53 Rio Tinto Limited income statement 215 Note 12 Intangible assets 162 Note 54 Rio Tinto Limited cash flow statement 215 Note 13 Property, plant and equipment 163 Note 14 Investments in equity accounted units 164 Rio Tinto plc 216 Note 15 Net debt of equity accounted units 165 Note 16 Inventories 165 Rio Tinto financial information by business unit 219 Note 17 Trade and other receivables 166 Note 18 Deferred taxation 167 Australian Corporations Act Summary of ASIC relief 222 Note 19 Assets held for sale 168 Note 20 Other financial assets 168 Directors' Declaration 223 Note 21 Cash and cash equivalents 168 Note 22 Borrowings 169 Auditor's Independence Declaration 224 Note 23 Capitalised finance leases 170 Note 24 Consolidated net debt 170 Independent auditors' report to the members of Rio Tinto plc 225 and Rio Tinto Limited Note 25 Trade and other payables 171 Note 26 Other financial liabilities 171 Note 27 Provisions not including taxation 172 Financial Summary 2000-2009 227 Summary financial data 229 Capital and reserves Note 28 Share capital Rio Tinto plc 173 Note 29 Share capital Rio Tinto Limited 173 Note 30 Other reserves and retained earnings 174 130 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report
