Governance Audited Information Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee is as required to the Board on the Companys PwCs other connections with the responsible for formulating the Companys framework of executive remuneration and Company are limited to the provision remuneration policy as it applies to senior its costs and determines on the Boards of actuarial advice for the Long Term executives.
A core aim of this policy is to behalf the individual salaries and other Incentive Plan LTIP calculations, ensure pay practice for senior terms and conditions of employment for associated LTIP accounting advice and management at Rotork is appropriate for the executive directors and the Chairman a limited amount of other corporate the Company and its shareholders.
The Committee determines the advice, the majority of which in the year are set out the key responsibilities of the terms of any discretionary share schemes under review, was due diligence work Remuneration Committee.
in which executive directors may be invited for the Flow-Quip acquisition.
The Committees Terms of Remuneration Committee Reference are available on the Companys The Committee considers it important Responsibilities website B.
2.1. that a significant proportion of executive Formulating a policy for remuneration of directors potential total remuneration the Chairman and executive directors: Remuneration Policy is performance related B.
This is Within the agreed policy, determining The Committee reviews remuneration demonstrated by the percentage of basic individual remuneration packages for policy annually.
For the year under review, salary potentially payable as cash or share the Chairman and executive directors the Board continued to consider that it awards under the annual cash bonus and reviewing the level of remuneration was critical that the Company had scheme and LTIP respectively.
for other Rotork Management Board remuneration policies that enabled it to members: motivate, retain and, when required, recruit Activities during the year Agreeing the terms and conditions to high quality management.
Levels of During the year the Committee received be included in service agreements for remuneration should be sufficient to meet salary and remuneration advice from their executive directors, including these objectives but should not be appointed adviser PwC for executive termination payments.
In recommending the level of directors and senior management.
The remuneration for executive directors, the Chief Executive provides comment and The full Terms of Reference of the Committee took account of the size and recommendations on the remuneration Remuneration Committee can be nature of the Company, including, in of the other executive directors.
2.2. found on the Companys website, particular, its market capitalisation, as well www.
com in the Investors Section as its international scope and revenue and Non-Executive Directors under corporate Governance - made use of proprietary and other data Non-executive directors are offered Committees supplied by its independent remuneration engagement agreements of usually consultant and advisor three years duration, subject to earlier This Report is presented to shareholders  PwC.
termination by either party on three by the Board and sets out the Boards months notice, with no provision for any remuneration policy and details of the compensation payment on termination.
The Auditor is required to report on the information concerning directors emoluments, long Non-Executive Directors term incentive plan and other share Notice awards and pension disclosures.
Name of Date of Notice period from non-executive letter of period from non-executive director appointment Company director Committee Membership IG King 15 2 2008 3 months 3 months The Remuneration Committee the Committee of the Board is currently RC Lockwood 1 1 2006 3 months 3 months comprised of three independent nonJE Nicholas 28 2 2008 3 months 3 months executive directors, A Walker, IG King and A Walker 6 1 2006 3 months 3 months JE Nicholas Code provision B.
The Chairman and Chief Executive are invited to attend the meetings of the Committee, The fees of the non-executive directors, other than the Chairman, are determined by a other than when their own remuneration Board Committee of the Chief Executive and Chairman.
The fees of the Chairman are is considered.
The Company Secretary determined by the Remuneration Committee.
participates in the Committee discussions and advises the Committee.
The Committee makes recommendations ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 37 Remuneration Report continued Executive Directors Name of Date of Notice Notice Contractual executive service period from period from retirement director contract Company director date RH Arnold 28 5 2002 1 year 1 year 18 8 2016 PI France 2 5 2008 1 year 1 year 6 4 2033 GM Ogden 1 1 2005 1 year 1 year 9 1 2017 RE Slater 1 6 1998 1 year 1 year 10 4 2011 Executive Directors Contracts of onwards shareholders agreed a reduction comparators.
The comparator group used Employment to a vesting of 30% of the Award value for for awards is set out on the page opposite.
RE Slater, RH Arnold, GM Ogden and PI median performance within the France all have rolling service contracts comparator group.
A 100% vesting of the Executive Bonus 2009 with a one year notice period B.
Award is made for performance at or The executive annual cash bonus plan The most recent executive director service above the 75th percentile with a pro-rata applying in 2009 rewards increases in contract contains provisions which limit vesting scale down to the median.
The profit, when compared with the average payments on termination to basic salary performance requirements for any and all profit over the three immediately preceding with employer rights to require phased the award percentage to vest is explained years.
The plan additionally rewards high payments.
For future executive director on page 39. levels of free cash generation and growth appointments, the Boards intention will in earnings per share together with the be to continue to limit service contracts The Committee has recommended and the achievement of budgeted targets.
For to one year on a rolling basis.
Board approved a revised executive share 2009 the total annual bonus payment was retention policy.
The policy supports the capped at 100% of basic salary earned None of the executive directors has any accumulation of significant shareholdings during the year for the Chief Executive and external directorships with the exception in the Company by executive directors and at 80% of basic salary for other executive of PI France who is a director of Bath other senior executives.
Educational Trust for which he receives requires executive directors to achieve a no fee.
minimum holding of ordinary shares in the The profit element of bonus will be Company equivalent to 50% of their basic calculated by reference to the simple Executive Remuneration salary.
From the end of 2009 this minimum average profit in the three immediately The remuneration packages of each holding will be increased to 150% of basic preceding years.
A sum equal to 1.5% of individual director currently include basic salary for executive directors.
Executive salary will be awarded for each 1% growth salary, an annual bonus, benefits in kind directors are required to make use of in profit when compared to such average car and fuel, or car and fuel allowance, vesting LTIP shares to meet this minimum profit in the three preceding years up to a and private medical insurance for target.
maximum of 50% of basic salary.
employee only, membership of the all employee Rotork Share Incentive Plan For the year under review, the Committee The earnings per share EPS element of SIP or Overseas Profit-Linked Share considered that the comparator group of bonus pays 1% of basic salary for each Scheme OPLSS, discretionary Rotork companies continued to be the appropriate 1% growth in basic EPS to a maximum LTIP and participation in a Rotork Group primary measurement of performance as payment of 10% of basic salary.
Further details of all supported by the Association of British EPS growth equals or exceeds 10% in a elements of each individual directors Insurers in its latest Principles and year, the EPS figure equal to 10% growth remuneration package are set out Guidelines on Remuneration document.
shall be termed the EPS maximum and elsewhere in this report.
Salary and the base point for comparison of the next benefits including pension, car and fuel, In 2007, the Committee reviewed the years EPS bonus shall be the prior years or car and fuel allowance, constitute fixed constituents of the comparator group and EPS maximum.
brought in additional companies to raise the number back up to twenty for future A further maximum 10% of basic salary LTIP Awards to executive directors in the grants as the number had reduced to is payable as bonus based on free cash year under review were 100% of basic seventeen.
Certain companies were also generation as a percentage of earnings salary, being the maximum level of award replaced with more suitable companies before interest and tax EBIT.
Free cash under the plan rules as approved by where the nature of those companies generation being the net increase in cash shareholders.
Following a review by the businesses had changed over time so as and cash equivalents, excluding Committee, for LTIP Awards from 2006 to no longer make them suitable adjustments for interest or tax receipts or 38 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Governance payments, acquisitions or disposals of Rotork Long Term Incentive Plans businesses, cash flows from financing Outstanding Outstanding activities or exceptional cash payments.
share or Share or share or These cash adjustments, where relevant, cash unit cash unit Share or cash unit Awards Awards cash unit Awards are disclosed in the Consolidated made to made Awards at 31 Statement of Cash Flows on page 49.
1 January during vesting in Lapsed December 2009 2009 2009 in 2009 2009 The maximum 10% bonus is achieved where free cash generation equals 110% RH Arnold 85,570 31,530 49,606 67,494 of EBIT.
All awards were granted on 4th March 2009.
The market price of shares in the Company used to calculate 1% less than budget EBIT is achieved the award was 7.56. down to 90% of budget EBIT from when 2.
The 2005 and 2006 LTIP Awards vested at 100%.
RH Arnold, a United States citizen and resident, was awarded shares in the 2009 award and cash units of a monetary value equivalent to share awards under the LTIP in previous awards.
Following these changes for executive directors other than the Chief Executive A three year performance period applies to The LTIP grant comparator group of their bonus payment shall be limited to Awards granted from 2006. companies used are: 80% of basic salary.
The Chief Executives bonus shall be limited to 100% of basic LTIP Awards still outstanding at the time Bodycote plc salary by applying the fraction 100 80 to of publication of this report made to Brammer plc the amount of bonus percentage of basic executive directors are set out above BSS plc salary calculated for other executive Charter plc directors in any year.
The Companys EPS is also monitored Cookson plc during the relevant performance period to Halma plc Rotork Long Term Incentive Plans ensure it meets a minimum average annual IMI plc The LTIP is a performance, share or cash growth equal to the rise in the Retail Price Invensys plc unit plan under which shares or cash units Index RPI plus 2% per annum.
Failure Laird plc are conditionally allocated to selected to meet this RPI plus 2% per annum Meggitt plc members of senior management at the requirement will result in nil vesting.
The Morgan Crucible plc discretion of the Committee on an annual relative TSR against a comparator group Renishaw plc basis.
No shares or cash units will normally performance measure was chosen as it Senior plc be released to participants unless they are enabled the Committee to select a Smith Group plc still in the Groups service following comparator group considered to be Spectris plc completion of the relevant full performance sufficiently challenging given the historic Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc period and the Companys relative Total performance of the Company.
TT Electronics plc Shareholder Return TSR against a Volex plc comparator group of companies places it Weir Group plc in at least the 50th percentile position in the comparator group at the end of the relevant performance period.
TSR measures the change in value of a share and reinvested dividends over the period of measurement.
The actual number of shares or cash units transferred will be determined by the number of shares or cash units initially allocated multiplied by a vesting percentage which for Awards granted from 2006 is 30% at the 50th percentile rising to 100% at the 75th percentile with each percentile position above the 50th adding 2.8% to the vesting percentage.
RH Arnold is paid in US dollars.
PI France is subject to the Rotork p. l. c. Pension and Life Assurance Scheme specific salary cap.
In consideration of this limitation on his benefits under the Scheme he receives a monthly cash sum equal to 22.5% of that part of his basic salary above the Schemes specific cap on an annualised basis.
These columns include the cash value on allocation of SIP and OPLSS share Awards as appropriate.
Share Awards to Executive Directors subject to the HMRC upper limit of 3,000 the Scheme, which he exercised on 30 In common with all eligible employees, by value.
This limit also applies to RH November 2009.
PI France was granted UK based executive directors receive an Arnold under the OPLSS from 2009 3,484 share options on 5 October 2005 at entitlement to ordinary shares under The onwards.
Additionally RE Slater has an option price of 4.62.
On 1 December Rotork Share Incentive Plan SIP which purchased partnership shares under the 2007 GM Ogden was granted 2,071 share is approved by Her Majestys Revenue SIP.
His SIP partnership holdings as at 31 options under the Rotork Sharesave and Customs HMRC.
Under the SIP December 2009 were 1,746 ordinary Scheme at an option price of 8.11.
These and Rotork Overseas Profit-Linked Share shares.
options are all exercisable five years from Scheme OPLSS an aggregate total of grant.
The exercise period is six months up to 5% of profits are distributed to RH Arnold, in common with other eligible duration after which the options lapse.
employees each year in the form of overseas employees, participates in the ordinary shares.
The scheme trustee is based in The only other changes in the directors calculated by reference to years of service Jersey, Channel Islands.
The figure shown interest post year-end relate to shares and the beneficial interests of the for RH Arnold relates solely to OPLSS.
purchased by the UK based directors executive directors at 31 December monthly under the Rotork SIP partnership included ordinary shares held under the UK based executive directors, in common plan to a maximum 125 per month.
SIP and the OPLSS in trust as shown in with other eligible UK employees, have the the table below.
Details of total free share opportunity to invest in the HMRC Save as disclosed, no director or his family Awards under the SIP and OPLSS and approved Rotork Sharesave Scheme.
had any interest in the shares of the Awards made to executive directors in RE Slater, GM Ogden and PI France Company at 31 December 2009.
2009 and the prior year are set out above.
RE Slater was Free shares awarded to all three UK granted 5,170 share options on 8 October executive directors under the SIP are 2004 at an option price of 3.196 under 40 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Governance Total Shareholder Return Interests in Shares All interests were beneficial and include A graph showing the value, by 31 The interests of the directors in the directors directly held and family share December 2009, of 100 invested in ordinary share capital of the Company, at interests and in total represent less than Rotork p. l. c. on 1 January 2005 compared 31 December were as follows, see table 1% 2008: less than 1% of voting shares with the value of 100 invested in the below.
FTSE Industrial Engineering Sector Index is shown below.
The other points plotted Interests in Shares show values at intervening financial 2009 2008 year-ends.
The graph measures the Number Number Companys performance against other RH Arnold 18,659 18,270 companies in the FTSE Industrial Engineering sector by showing the TSR PI France 34,635 20,490 on a holding of ordinary shares in the GM Ogden 17,249 18,653 Company compared with the average RE Slater 93,585 59,439 total shareholder return of other companies in its sector being the sector A Walker 8,500 8,500 within which the Company is quoted on IG King 5,000 the London Stock Exchange and which RC Lockwood is therefore considered the most appropriate index over the five year JE Nicholas period to 31 December 2009.
350 338 300 259 250 217 200 219 167 150 100 Jan 05 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Total Shareholder Return rebased ROTORK p. l. c. FTSE Industrial Engineering Sector ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 41 Remuneration Report continued Pension Disclosures required under Pension disclosures required under the Companies Act 2006 The Listing Rules of The Financial Age at Increase in Accumulated Services Authority 31.12.2009 accrued accrued The table opposite shows the executive pension over pension at the year 31.12.2009 directors entitlements earned during the Note 1 Note 2 year net of inflation and the accumulated entitlement at the year-end.
The figures shown for the increase in accrued pension over the year exclude any increase for inflation.
The accumulated accrued pension is that which would be paid annually on retirement from normal pension age, based on service to 31 December 2009.
A lump sum death benefit of 4 times basic annual salary is payable on death in service.
A dependants pension of one-half of prospective pension is payable on death in service, and of one-half of pre-commutation pension on death in retirement.
Post-retirement increases are applied at the rate of increase of the Index of Retail Prices up to a maximum of 5% per annum, except that for pension benefits in respect of pensionable service up to 15 May 2000 the minimum inflationary increase is 4.5% per annum.
PI Frances Pensionable Salary used to calculated benefits in the defined benefit scheme is restricted to a Scheme specific earnings cap which is currently 117,600.
The figures shown for RH Arnold are in respect of his membership of the Rotork Controls Inc. pension scheme and a supplemental executive retirement plan so that, in aggregate, the pension arrangements for RH Arnold will provide a pension of at least 60% of uncapped basic salary at age 65.
The table opposite shows the executive Pension disclosures required under the Companies Act 2006 directors entitlements earned during the Increase in year and their value at the start and end of accrued Transfer Transfer the year.
The figures shown for the increase in accrued pension over the year incorporate the increase for inflation.
The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the Actuarial Guidance Note GN 11 published by the Board for Actuarial Standards.
The decrease in accrued pension and the decrease in transfer value over the year for RH Arnold are due to movements in the US dollar relative to sterling.
In US dollars, the accrued pension for RH Arnold increased from $141,276 pa at 31 December 2008 to $155,975 pa at 31 December 2009 and the transfer value increased from $1,793,000 at 31 December 2008 to $1,999,000 at 31 December 2009.
The transfer value of accrued pension for RH Arnold reflects the benefits provided by the US scheme together with a US valuation of these benefits and is therefore not directly comparable with the transfer values for directors in the UK scheme.
42 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009
