The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Remuneration report 49 This report sets out the remuneration policy and remuneration 2 Remuneration policy details of the executive and non-executive directors of the 2.1 General remuneration policy Company.
The report has been prepared in accordance with The Remuneration Committee, in setting remuneration policy, the Companies Act 2006 and also meets the requirements of recognises the need to be competitive in an international market.
the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Committees policy is to set remuneration levels which ensure that the executive directors are fairly and responsibly rewarded 1 The Remuneration Committee in return for high levels of performance.
Remuneration policy 1.1 Composition of the Remuneration Committee is designed to support key business strategies and to create The Remuneration Committee consists of non-executive a strong,  environment.
At the same directors considered by the Board to be independent, and the time, the policy must attract, motivate and retain talent.
In setting Chairman of the Board who was independent on appointment remuneration levels for the executive directors, the Committee to the Board.
It works within detailed terms of reference, copies takes account of the remuneration policy and practice applicable of which are available on request from the Secretary and on the to other Group employees, and received information on bonus Companys website at www.
Its role includes making levels and base salary reviews for other managers around recommendations to the Board on remuneration policy for the Group.
executive directors and the Chairman who does not participate The components of remuneration for executive directors are in discussions relating to his own remuneration, defining the base salary reviewed annually, benefits including car allowance remuneration packages of executive directors and the Chairman and non-contributory health insurance, an annual bonus together with any compensation payments to them and with a deferred element to encourage director shareholdings, approving the Remuneration report.
The Committee also long-term incentives comprising performance share plan awards considers the remuneration policy of the Company for senior and pension contributions.
executives of the Group other than members of the Board and The Remuneration Committee considers that a successful seeks to maintain consistency in the approach to remuneration remuneration policy must ensure that a significant part of the policy.
The current members of the Remuneration Committee remuneration package is linked to the achievement of stretching are Ms R Markland Chair from March 2009, Mr T C W Ingram corporate performance targets.
The policy adopted by the Chair until March 2009, Mr A J Hobson, Ms T Ingram, Committee ensures that a significant proportion of the Mr I Mason and Mr M E Rolfe.
remuneration of executives is aligned with corporate performance, All the members of the Committee have been members of the generating a strong alignment of interest with shareholders.
The chart below illustrates the anticipated mix between fixed and variable pay for Executive Directors under Sages current 1.2 Advisers to the Remuneration Committee remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee keeps itself fully informed of developments and best practice in the field of remuneration Around 75% of each executives total compensation value is and it seeks advice from external advisers when it considers delivered through performance-related incentives, and is therefore it appropriate.
In order to be aware of market trends in at-risk if stretching performance targets are not achieved.
remuneration and current best practice, the Remuneration At target levels of performance, more than 50% of the package Committee considers market data for comparable businesses.
The Remuneration Committee has received advice from Deloitte, an independent firm of remuneration consultants appointed after consultation with the Board.
The terms of engagement of Deloitte are available on request from the Secretary.
Deloitte were appointed by the Committee and provide no services to the Group otherthan advice on executive remuneration to the Remuneration Committee and advice to the Groups North American business on a software implementation programme.
Ms K Geary Director of Human Resources and Corporate Communications, Ms R Fyffe Director of Performance and Reward and Mr M J Robinson Secretary have provided advice or services to the Remuneration Committee that materially assisted it in its consideration of matters relating to directors remuneration for the financial year.
The Chief Executive, Ms K Geary, Ms R Fyffe and Mr M J Robinson have, at the invitation of the Committee, attended certain meetings but were not present at any meeting when any matter relating directly to their own remuneration was discussed.
Governance The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 50 Remuneration report 2.2 Policy on salary of executive directors Executive directors with no specific divisional responsibility have 75% of their bonus based on Group profit before tax and It is the policy of the Committee to pay base salaries to the amortisation.
The remaining 25% is based on individual strategic executive directors at broadly market rates compared with those objectives.
For regional CEOs, 25% of bonus is based on Group of executives of companies of a similar size and international profit before tax and amortisation, 50% on EBITA of the relevant scope in particular those within the FTSE 50150 with more than operating company or companies, and the remaining 25% on 50% of revenue derived from overseas, whilst also taking into individual objectives.
The Committee has discretion to make account the executive directors individual performance and the suitable adjustments to reported financial measures to ensure performance of the Group.
In light of economic circumstances, that financial performance for bonus purposes reflects underlying and also the position of the wider employee population in Sage, business performance.
in the year ending 30 September 2010 salaries of executive directors have not been increased from those disclosed in In respect of any bonus awarded in excess of 75% of salary, this report, with the exception of Paul Harrison, whose salary 25% of that excess is to be satisfied in deferred shares and 75% will be increased by 7% to move him towards a market in cash if the executive director has not yet achieved the target competitive range.
holding of shares equivalent to 150% of annual salary referred to below.
If this shareholding target has been achieved the bonus 2.3 Policy on fees of non-executive directors will be paid entirely in cash.
These shares awarded in respect of Remuneration policy for the non-executive directors is determined bonus, which will be market purchased ordinary shares in the by the Board excluding the non-executive directors.
The fees capital of the Company will only be released after three years of the non-executive directors are reviewed every two years.
to the relevant executive director and will be generally at risk of For the two financial years ending 30 September 2010, the forfeiture if the executive director leaves within the deferral period.
Committee membership fees are not paid.
Awards over deferred shares were made to executive directors as The chairmanship fees are 13,000 and 17,000 for the set out in the Directors remuneration table in paragraph 5 below.
Remuneration and Audit Committees respectively.
The payment The bonuses paid to the executive directors in relation to the year to the Senior Independent Director is 10,000. under review are set out on page 55 and are considered to be In relation to the Chairman of the Board, remuneration is appropriate in the context of the maximum bonus opportunity.
positioned by reference to the median fees for non-executive In respect of performance for the year ended 30 September chairs of companies of a comparable size and complexity.
2009, the Committee considered financial performance over The Chairmans remuneration will next be reviewed in 2010. the full financial year and reviewed the impact of one-off items.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in any The Committee concluded that financial performance measured bonus, long-term incentive or pension schemes.
prior to one-off Group restructuring costs provided a better measure of the Groups overall performance and strength of the 2.4 Policy on bonus business.
At the same time, the Committee also exercised its discretion to align Group executive bonus payments with those The bonus in the case of executive directors and indeed all determined for the individual business units.
employees is designed to reward outstanding performance.
In determining the individual strategic element of the bonus the Bonus is linked to demanding strategic targets for the Group Committee considered a range of factors and measures including and for the individual operating companies, the meeting the level of customer support and the retention of support or out-performance of which is a significant achievement.
contracts, and the achievement of strategic milestones against The Committee considers the targets each year and selects a background of an evolving long-term strategy.
those which it considers to be drivers of shareholder value.
Bonus payable to executive directors for on-target performance No deferred shares were awarded for the year ended is 75% of salary with maximum bonus potential of 125% of salary.
30 September 2009, as the bonus payment was below the Bonuses above on-target level represent superior performance target level.
against one or more measures.
At the end of each year the Remuneration Committee assesses the degree to which the targets have been met.
The requirement to defer bonus into shares applies only to those executive directors who have not yet met the shareholding policy of the Board see paragraph 2.7 below.
Governance Governance The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 51 2.5 Policy on long-term incentives Wherever used in this Remuneration report, EPS refers to earnings per share before amortisation or impairment of intangible In the previous financial year the Committee established the assets, exceptional items, amounts written-off investments and current long-term incentives structure consulting widely with is on a foreign currency neutral basis.
This measure has been shareholders to establish a motivational and performanceselected since the timing of acquisitions can be unpredictable, orientated structure that focuses on the creation of shareholder with the result that the amortisation charge in respect of intangible value.
Executive share options have not been granted under the assets is inherently difficult to budget.
The neutralised foreign 1999 Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS since June 2008 currency basis has been selected as the Board considers this January 2008 for executive directors.
to be consistent with the presentation and assessment of results Long-term incentive awards are made under the Performance by shareholders.
Share Plan PSP and now vest on the following basis: The comparator group for awards to be made in the year to A sliding scale based on EPS is used.
25% of the award vests at 30 September 2010 for TSR purposes will comprise the the end of the period if the increase in EPS exceeds RPI by 9% following companies: an average of 3% per year : 100% of the award vests at that time Adobe Systems Lawson Software only if RPI is exceeded in that period by 27% an average of 9% per year.
Between those targets, awards vest on a straight-line ARM Holdings Logica basis, and if those targets are not met there is no opportunity for Autonomy Micro Focus International re-testing.
Blackbaud Microsoft Awards are also subject to a TSR multiplier whereby the level of Cap Gemini Misys vesting based on EPS achievement is adjusted according to TSR Cegid Oracle performance over the same three-year period compared with a Dassault Systemes Salesforce.
com group of international software and computer services companies Exact SAP listed below.
Intuit Software AG If Sages TSR is ranked at lower quartile in the group, the multiplier is 0.75: The Committee will keep under review the comparator group If Sages TSR is ranked at median in the group, the multiplier to ensure that it remains appropriate.
is 1: and For comparator companies listed overseas the TSR is calculated If Sages TSR is ranked at upper quartile in the group, then the in local currency since this is considered to give a better reflection multiplier is 1.5. of the underlying performance of the comparator companies over Straight-line pro-rating applies between 0.75 and 1, and between the performance period.
The Committee will continue to review 1 and 1.5, but the multiplier cannot be higher or lower than whether this treatment is appropriate.
Grant policy under long-term incentive plans The minimum EPS growth performance required has been set PSP awards to executive directors for the year to 30 September at RPI 3% in light of business strategy and market expectations.
2010 will have a maximum value on award of 210% of salary.
The Committee considers that this level of EPS growth would This represents a core award to the value of 140% of salary, represent robust performance in the market.
The proportion of which, if maximum EPS growth is attained, and TSR performance award that will vest for this level of EPS growth is 25%, before is ranked upper quartile against the comparator group, could TSR performance is considered.
rise to 210% of salary ignoring share price movements.
The Remuneration Committee considers that this matrix The Remuneration Committee considers that this grant level is approach to performance conditions is appropriately demanding appropriate, taking into account the challenging performance at this time and provides the best incentive for the generation of criteria and recognising the increased competition for senior shareholder value.
EPS growth has been chosen because it executives in the industry.
The individual limit in the Plan is requires executives to produce sustained improvement in the 300% of salary.
However, the Committee would expect to underlying performance of the Group: TSR has been chosen as it consult with shareholders if awards were to be made routinely helps to align the interests of award holders with shareholders and above current levels.
complements the focus on Group financial results in the annual For the financial year to 30 September 2010, PSP awards bonus plan.
will be made following the AGM in March 2010.
Shareholder approval to operate the ESOS will expire in December 2009.
Governance The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 52 Remuneration report All-employee share schemes Executive directors are permitted, where appropriate and with Board approval, to take non-executive directorships with other UK based executive directors are entitled to participate in organisations in order to broaden their knowledge and experience The Sage Group Savings-Related Share Option Plan the in other markets and countries.
Mr P A Walker is currently a SAYE Scheme which is an all-employee plan.
Mr G S Berruyer non-executive director of Diageo plc.
Mr P L Stobart is a currently holds units granted under the Sage Plan dEpargne non-executive director of Capital & Regional plc.
Mr P S Harrison dEntreprise PEE, which is an all-employee plan designed to is a non-executive director of Hays plc.
Fees received in their enable French employees to acquire shares in the Company at capacity as directors of these companies are retained by each of a discounted price under terms comparable to those offered to them reflecting the personal responsibility they undertake in these UK employees under the SAYE Scheme.
In the year under review, these fees were 75,000 in the case of Mr P A Walker, 42,000 in the case of Mr P L Stobart 2.6 Policy on pensions and 62,000 in the case of Mr P S Harrison.
All the executive directors pension arrangements are defined contribution.
The standard contribution rate is 25% of base The Board recognises the significant demands that are made on salary subject, where appropriate, to limits set by HMRC.
executive and non-executive directors and has therefore adopted No components of remuneration, other than base salary, are a policy that no executive director should hold more than two pensionable.
directorships of other listed companies.
The Board encourages executive directors to limit other directorships to one listed 2.7 Policy on directors shareholdings company.
Except in exceptional circumstances where approved in advance by the Chairman of the Committee, if an executive The Committee believes that all executive directors should hold director holds non-executive positions at more than one listed a substantial number of shares in the Company.
It is, therefore, company then only the fees from one such company will its policy that all executive directors over time hold shares be retained by the director.
No formal limit on other board equivalent in value to 150% of their annual salary.
Until the appointments applies to non-executive directors under the policy required holding is achieved, executive directors will be expected but prior approval from the Chairman on behalf of the Board is to retain net of any shares sold to meet the tax liability in respect required in the case of any new appointment.
In the case of the of them at least 50% of: Chairman prior approval of the Senior Independent Director is Shares received as deferred bonus: required on behalf of the Board.
Shares resulting net of exercise costs from the exercise of The service contracts of executive directors and the letters of share options granted from December 2004 onwards: and appointment of non-executive directors prohibit the disclosure of Performance shares received under the PSP.
confidential information relating to the Group both during the term of the contract and after its termination.
The letters of appointment 2.8 Policy on service contracts of non-executive directors and service contracts of executive In relation to contracts with executive directors, the Remuneration directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered Committee aims to set notice periods that are no longer than office during normal business hours and will be available at the one year.
Both executive and non-executive directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and thereafter require re-election at least once every three years.
The appointment of a non-executive director may be terminated without compensation if that director is not re-elected by shareholders or otherwise in accordance with the Companys articles of association.
The appointment of the non-executives is for a fixed term of one or three years, during which period the appointment may be terminated by the Board on notice, ranging from six to 12 months in the case of the Chairman of the Board.
There are no provisions on payment for early termination in their letters of appointment.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the contracts of executives on an annual basis to ensure they are in line with policy and market practice.
Governance Governance The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 53 3 Directors contracts and compensation All executive directors have service contracts, which may be terminated by the Company for breach by the executive or by giving 12 months notice.
There are no pre-determined special provisions for directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office, with compensation based on what would be earned by way of salary, pension entitlement and other benefits over the notice period.
In the event that a contract is to be terminated, payments to the executive director may be staged over the notice period, or in the case of executive directors other than Mr G S Berruyer, the contract terminated and payments made in lieu of notice at the same time as salary would have been paid throughout the 12 months notice period.
There is no automatic entitlement to annual bonus or outstanding awards under share incentive plans.
Non-executive directors appointments may be terminated without compensation other than in respect of fees during the notice period.
Details of the contract of service or contract for services of each person who has served as a director of the Company at any time during the financial year are set out below: Unexpired term of contract on Director Date of contract 30 September 2009 Notice period under contract Executive directors G S Berruyer 30 September 2004 12 months 12 months from the Company and or 6 months from individual D H Clayton 25 July 2007 Age 60 or 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual P S Harrison 1 April 2000 Age 60 or 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual P L Stobart 26 September 2003 Age 60 or 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual P A Walker 26 September 2003 Age 60 or 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual Non-executive directors A J Hobson 24 May 2007 8 months 12 months from the Company and or individual T Ingram 23 November 2007 1 year 3 months 6 months from the Company and or 1 month from individual T C W Ingram 3 March 2009 6 months 6 months from the Company and or 1 month from individual R Markland 13 September 2009 3 years 6 months from the Company and or 1 month from individual I Mason 31 October 2007 1 year 1 month 6 months from the Company and or 1 month from individual M E Rolfe 23 November 2007 1 year 2 months 6 months from the Company and or 1 month from individual Notes: There are no other benefits in the contracts relevant to termination payment.
Governance The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 54 Remuneration report 4 Performance graph Total Shareholder Return TSR against FTSE 100 The Company is required to include a graph indicating its TSR performance that is, share price assuming reinvestment of any dividends over the last five years relative to a recognised equity index.
Accordingly the graph below shows the Companys performance relative to the FTSE 100.
This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2009 of 100 invested in The Sage Group plc on 30 September 2004 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
The FTSE 100 Index is, in the opinion of the directors, the most appropriate index against which the TSR of the Company should be measured because of the comparable size of the companies which comprise that index.
TSR performance to 30 September 2009 for PSP awards made to date was as follows: 2007 awards TSR ranking of 5 out of 13 comparators 2008 awards TSR ranking of 6 out of 19 comparators 2009 awards TSR ranking of 7 out of 19 comparators Governance Governance The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 55 5 Directors remuneration The information set out in sections 5.1 to 5.4 below has been subject to audit as required by part 3 of Schedule 8 of the Companies Act 2006.
5.1 Directors emoluments and compensation audited information The total salaries, fees and benefits paid to or receivable by each person who served as a director at any time during the year, appear below.
These include all payments for services as a director of the Company, its subsidiaries or otherwise in connection with the management of the Group and any other directorship he or she holds because of the Companys nomination.
The other elements of directors remuneration are referred to under the heading General remuneration policy above.
Therefore, the prior year figure above represents the fees paid to him whilst a director $23,356 and the payment in lieu of notice due to him $608,875.
2 No bonus has been deferred by the Company as an award under the Sage Group Deferred Bonus Plan.
3 Benefits in kind include the provision of car allowance and insurance.
4 Retirement benefits were accruing to four directors 2008: four.
All pension contributions accrued under money purchase schemes.
No payments for compensation for loss of office or otherwise relating to termination of office or employment were made during the year.
No other payments including non-cash benefits were made to third parties in respect of the services of a person who served as a director of the Company at any time during the financial year.
Including gains on share options, the total emoluments of the highest paid director were 1,354,000 2008: 1,307,000.
In the table above exchange rates of $1.54 1 and 1.14 1 have been adopted.
5.2 Directors share options audited information There are limits on the number of newly issued shares that can be used to satisfy awards under the Groups employee share schemes in any ten year period.
The limits and the Groups current position against those limits as at 17 December 2009 the last practicable date prior to printing this document, are set out below: Limit Current position 7.5% of Groups share capital can be used for discretionary share schemes 5.6% used 10% of Groups share capital can be used for all share schemes 6.2% used The Company has satisfied and intends to satisfy all awards under the Performance Share Plan through the market purchase of shares.
If awards under the Performance Share Plan are removed from the calculations above then under discretionary share schemes the percentage becomes 4.1% and under all share schemes 4.6%.
Governance The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 56 Remuneration report Executive share options The Groups only current executive share option scheme is the ESOS.
In the year under review, executive directors did not receive grants under this scheme.
Options granted to all directors of the Company and its operating subsidiaries throughout the Group under the ESOS that became exercisable on or after 23 February 2003 but before 6 January 2008 will normally be exercisable only if the percentage increase in the Companys EPS has exceeded the RPI by at least 3% each year in the three-year period since grant, i. e. by a total of 9%.
If that target is not met at the end of the three-year period, then those options will only be exercisable if EPS growth exceeds RPI by 12% over the four-year period following the date of grant.
In respect of options which became exercisable on or after 6 January 2008 the performance criteria for exercise are based on EPS growth measured over a fixed three-year period from the start of the financial year in which the grant is made.
30% of options will vest at the end of the period if the increase in EPS exceeds RPI by 15% an average of 5% per year and 100% of those options will vest at that time only if RPI is exceeded in that period by 27% an average of 9% per year.
Between those targets, options will vest on a straight-line basis.
If those targets are not met at the end of the three-year period, then no further retesting of the performance criteria will be undertaken and the options will lapse.
In respect of any share options which became exercisable prior to 23 February 2003 no performance conditions apply as such conditions were not deemed appropriate by the Remuneration Committee at that time.
For the options exercised in the year, the market price of the exercised shares at the date of exercise was as follows: P A Walker 10 December 2008 was 179.90p.
The market price of a share of the Company at 30 September 2009 was 233.40p and the lowest and highest market price during the year was 148.40p and 233.40p respectively.
Total gains on the exercise of share options were 285,365 2008: 684,275, including 284,298 2008: 684,275 on executive share options.
Lapses during the year relate to performance conditions not having been met in full.
All-employee share scheme In relation to the SAYE Scheme, the outstanding options granted to each director of the Company are as follows: Shares under Shares under option at Granted Exercised Lapsed option at Exercise 1 October during during during 30 September price 2008 the year the year the year 2009 Director per share number number number number number Date exercisable P S Harrison 184.00p 5,081 5,081 1 August 2009 31 January 2010 149.00p 6,140 6,140 1 August 2012 31 January 2013 5,081 6,140 5,081 6,140 P L Stobart 184.00p 5,081 5,081 1 August 2009 31 January 2010 5,081 5,081 Total 10,162 6,140 5,081 5,081 6,140 Notes: These options are not subject to performance conditions since these do not apply to this type of all-employee share scheme.
Under the PEE Mr G S Berruyer holds units in a French mutual fund, which holds shares in the Company.
The units must be held for no less than five years.
On 30 September 2009 23,886 units were held by Mr G S Berruyer at a price of 2.426 per share.
On 30 September 2008 16,566.38 units were held at a price of 2.668 per share.
Units are valued on a weekly basis.
For the options exercised in the year, the market price of the exercised shares at the date of exercise was 205.00p.
The market price of a share on 3 March 2009, the date of the awards made in the year ended 30 September 2009 was162.10p.
The vesting of shares awarded under the Performance Share Plan is subject to performance conditions measuring the Groups total shareholder return TSR against a comparator group.
For awards made prior to March 2008, 30% of shares vest for median TSR performance as compared to that group whilst all shares vest for upper quintile top 20% TSR performance.
Between those points, shares will vest on a straight-line basis.
Awards made in March 2008 have the same vesting schedule except that 25% of the award vests for median performance.
The performance condition for awards made in March 2009 is set out in paragraph 2.5 above.
In respect of the awards with a vesting date in 2009 the comparator group for TSR comprised: Blackbaud, Cap Gemini, Cegid, Exact, Intuit, iSoft, Microsoft, Misys, Oracle, Salesforce.
For those vesting in 2010 the group comprised: Blackbaud, Cap Gemini, Cegid, Exact, Intuit, Lawson Software, Logica, Microsoft, Misys, Oracle, Salesforce.
For those vesting in 2011 and 2012 the group comprised: Adobe Systems, ARM Holdings, Autonomy, Blackbaud, Cap Gemini, Cegid, Dassault Systemes, Exact, Intuit, Lawson Software, Logica, Micro Focus International, Microsoft, Misys, Oracle, Salesforce.
For awards made in 2006, TSR performance was such that none of the shares originally awarded to executive directors vested.
Governance Governance The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 59 5.4 Deferred shares audited information The outstanding awards granted to each director of the Company under the Sage Group Deferred Bonus Plan are as follows.
In the event that a director ceases to be an employee of the Group for reasons other than death, retirement, redundancy, injury, ill-health or disability before the third anniversary of the date of grant then the rights to the award will lapse, unless the Remuneration Committee recommend otherwise.
Awards are not subject to further performance conditions once granted.
No variations were made in the terms of the awards in the year.
Shares awarded in the year relate to the deferred element of bonus awards in respect of the year ended 30 September 2008.
The market price of a share on 10 December 2008, the date of the award, was 178.70p.
Governance The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 60 Remuneration report 5.5 Interests in shares The interests of each person who was a director of the Company as at 30 September 2009 together with interests held by his or her connected persons were: Ordinary Ordinary shares at shares at 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 Director number number G S Berruyer 239,549 301,836 D H Clayton 31,000 31,000 P S Harrison 46,324 41,065 A J Hobson 24,126 24,126 T Ingram 3,600 3,600 T C W Ingram 33,552 33,552 R Markland 5,000 5,000 I Mason 10,000 10,000 M E Rolfe 10,000 10,000 P L Stobart 76,701 67,803 P A Walker 6,223,164 6,201,657 Total 6,703,016 6,729,639 Notes: There have been no changes in the directors holdings in the share capital of the Company between 30 September 2009 and 17 December 2009.
5.6 Significant awards to past directors No significant awards were made to any person who was not a director at the time the award was made but who was previously a director.
Approved by the Board of directors and signed on its behalf: R Markland Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 17 December 2009 Governance Governance
