DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Directors Remuneration Report the Report has been prepared in accordance with The Large and Mediumsized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations and meets the relevant requirements of the Financial Services Authority FSA Listing Rules.
As required by the Regulations, a resolutiontoapprove theReport willbe proposed at  AGM on6May2010.
The Remuneration Committee Membershipand Meetings The members of the Remuneration Committee are Rolf Stomberg Chairman, Pamela Kirby, Warren Knowlton, Joseph Papa appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 4 November 2009 and Richard fide Schutter.
All members of the Committee are non-executive directors and are considered by the Board to be independent in accordance with the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the requirements of the SEC and the NYSE.
In addition the Remuneration Committee agreed on certain resolutions by e-mail when unable to meet physically.
Joseph Papa joined the Remuneration Committee on 4 November 2009 and also attended one meeting prior to hisappointment.
At the request of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman, John Buchanan, the Chief Executive, David Illingworth and the Group Director of Human Resources, Elizabeth Bolgiano were invited to attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
David Illingworth and Elizabeth Bolgiano advise the Remuneration Committee on all aspects of the Groups reward structures and policies and John Buchanan offers a valuable perspective given his experience onthe Boards of other companies.
Noneof these directors or officers is present .
During the year, the Remuneration Committee received information from a number of independent consultants appointed by the Company: Deloitte LLP on a broad range of remuneration issues and on long-term incentive plan comparative performance and Towers Watson and Mercer Limited on salary data when considering base salaries of executive directors and executive officers.
Deloitte LLP also provided taxation advice to the Group, while Towers Watson and Mercer Limited have provided general salary data and advised on various compensation matters below Board level.
None of these advisors advised any director in respect of their own remuneration.
The Role of the Remuneration Committee The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the Groups website at www.
: Theremuneration, , ofexecutive  officers:   directorsandthat ofotheremployees: The competitiveness of executive remuneration using data from independent consultants on companies of similarsize, : The performance targets for the bonus plan and long-term incentive plans and the performance against these targets: The operation of the long-term incentive plans, share option plans and performance related bonus plan,  : and Proposals .
Remuneration Policy The remuneration policy as approved by the Remuneration Committee and the Board, is designed to ensure that remunerationis sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate executive  officersof a calibre that meets the Groups needs to achieve its business objectives.
The policy is designed to ensure that remuneration is firmly linked with the success of the Company and achievement against the Companys key performance indicators, so that executive directors and executive officers are suitably incentivised to generate  valueforshareholders.
