SOCO International plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The Directors Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the full Board a broad remuneration policy that is aligned with the Companys business strategy in the creation of shareholder value Governance SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 49 The Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The disclosures contained in this report that are The Companys process for assessing specified for audit by the Regulations and are independence and balancing the Boards covered in the scope of the Independent Auditors requirements for retention of experience with Report on page 59, are separately identified succession and refreshment are set out in the below and where relevant are presented in Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 to 47, The Committee has US dollars consistent with the Groups audited and included a specific review of the Committees an ongoing process financial statements.
A resolution to approve the membership and chairmanship in 2009.
In light of report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual this review, Committee membership has been for monitoring its General Meeting AGM.
refreshed with the addition of two independent policies Non-Executive Directors.
The Board applies a The Company has complied throughout the specific set of focused criteria in the assessment period with the provisions relating to Directors of long tenured Directors and, with careful remuneration set out in the Combined Code on consideration, has determined that the tenure of The Committee is responsible for determining Corporate Governance that was issued in 2008 Mr Peter Kingston and Mr Olivier Barbaroux has and agreeing with the full Board a broad by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
The not affected their independence or their ability remuneration policy that is aligned with the Company has applied the principles set out in to bring independent judgement to bear in the Companys business strategy in the creation Code provisions and in Schedule A to the Code discharge of their duties.
Being satisfied of his of shareholder value.
Within the context of that as described below.
continued independence, the Board considers policy, the Committee is responsible for setting that Mr Kingstons chairmanship continues to the total remuneration packages of the Executive Remuneration Committee be in the best interest of the Company, and that Directors and the Company Secretary.
The The independent Non-Executive Directors who his extensive relevant experience and continued Committee also monitors the remuneration serve on the Remuneration Committee are set attention to evolving market practice best practices and trends throughout the Groups out on pages 34 and 35.
The Board is keenly positions him to provide the independent internationally based workforce, including in aware of its duty to ensure, on behalf of leadership and guidance required by the particular for senior staff who contribute most shareholders, that the Committee is wholly Committee and, in particular, its new members.
significantly to achieving the Companys strategic independent.
All members are independent of aims.
Additionally, the Committee is responsible management and free from any conflicts of The Board will continue to apply rigorous scrutiny for setting the remuneration of the Non-Executive interest arising from cross-directorships or in its assessment to ensure independence Chairman.
The Committees recommendations day-to-day involvement in running the Companys remains evident in the Committees policies and and decisions are developed in full consideration business.
No member has any personal financial proposals, and in the qualities and behaviours of the Code, institutional guidelines and evolving interest, other than as shareholders, in the of its members.
Additional information regarding market practice, with particular attention being matters delegated to the Committee.
No Director the Committee is contained in the Corporate given to the challenges represented by the plays a role in deciding his own remuneration.
Governance Report on pages 40 to 47. current economic environment.
SOCO International plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The Directors Remuneration Report continued In discharging its duties during the year, the Committee consulted with the other Non-Executive Directors, and its proposals Remuneration Policy were approved by the full Board.
In particular, The policies described in this report have been the Committee has sought advice as it considers applied throughout 2009.
Whilst these policies Executive Directors appropriate from Mr Rui fide Sousa as a significant are envisaged to be consistently applied in the The Committee reviews all aspects of shareholder, who it considers offers the following and subsequent years, the Committee remuneration on an annual basis and with respect Committee a valuable perspective on the has an ongoing process for monitoring its policies, to individual and corporate performance during including its arrangements for performance based the year.
These reviews are normally conducted concerns of shareholders generally in ensuring the strategy to align executive interests with pay, against evolving market practice and relevant in December.
The projected value and structure of the Executive Directors remuneration those of shareholders remains properly weighed guidance and with due regard to the current against the overall quantum of remuneration economic climate.
Any proposed change which packages are benchmarked against competitive and the cost to shareholders.
The Committee is material is only implemented following a market ranges, taking into consideration the consulted with the Chief Executive on its consultation, review and approval process Groups size and complexity, and positioned proposals for the other Executive Director and deemed appropriate to such change.
within those ranges considering the Executive senior management, and received administrative Directors critical value to the Company and assistance from the Company Secretary.
The The Directors believe that a uniquely qualified demonstrated performance over time.
Similar Audit Committee is consulted as deemed and motivated executive management is vital benchmarking techniques are applied to appropriate in setting and assessing the to the effective management of the Companys non-Board employees and the Committee fulfilment of targets based on financial terms.
international portfolio and the successful execution monitors senior staff remuneration packages of the Companys stated strategy for building during the review of Executive Directors Deloitte LLP Deloitte was independently shareholder value.
It is the Committees objective remuneration packages.
Year on year results of retained by the Committee as advisors and to attract and retain high calibre executives benchmarking are monitored for indications of provided advice on executive remuneration in through remuneration which is competitive with potential unwarranted upward ratcheting.
terms of relevant current market practice and that offered in comparable businesses and is developments in best practice guidance, and appropriate to those individuals positions, Package Components Executive remuneration comprises a fixed in particular on the testing and setting of experience and value to the Company.
performance criteria for incentive plans.
The basic salary and eligibility to receive an annual performance based cash bonus and annual original appointment of advisors resulted from The Committee aims to design remuneration a tender process and alternate advisors are packages with a significant short and long awards under incentive plans approved by shareholders and designed to provide appropriate considered from time to time.
Deloitte also term performance related element linking provided audit services to the Group, as set appropriate, but significantly greater, rewards for longer term incentive opportunities.
Overall packages are structured to deliver 60% of out in Note 9 to the financial statements and greater achievements.
The Committee seeks to described more fully in the Corporate Governance ensure performance based pay is linked to its the projected value of the Directors total Report on pages 40 to 47.
The advisors terms of business strategy.
To achieve this, shorter term compensation opportunity from performance reference restrict the provision of certain services performance is monitored against targets based related elements at performance levels in the in order to maintain auditor independence, and on the Companys strategic plan.
In the longer middle of the target range, increasing to 80% the scope and value of services to the Group is term, performance targets are more closely linked at exceptional performance levels.
Advice is developed to share price performance as an indicator of the Directors are eligible for additional benefits, with use of established methodologies and the Companys success in building shareholder value.
including money purchase pension scheme advisors are not involved in the decision making Within this broad framework, the Committee contributions, a permanent health insurance process.
Advisory partners and staff have no is committed to taking particular care that scheme, medical insurance, life assurance involvement in audit, and are not involved in remuneration does not reward excessive cover, critical illness cover, travel and expatriate the preparation of audited information.
Governance SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 51 Basic Salary The annual cash bonus is awarded based on Basic salaries for the Executive Directors who are individual and corporate achievements during both US citizens are denominated in US dollars, the year towards goals based on the Companys consistent with the Groups reporting currency strategic plan.
Goals are set annually for each and the primary currency of Group operations.
portion of the Companys portfolio aimed at Basic salary is fixed at appointment or in relation achieving the specific challenges the Company to changes in responsibility, and is reviewed faces in meeting its strategic objectives.
Particular care is given in fixing the monitored measures for particular projects may appropriate salary level considering that cash include specified timetables for seismic, drilling bonus and incentive plan awards are generally and construction programmes, drilling success set as a fraction or multiple of basic salary.
Basic ratios, discovery targets, reserve levels and salary is the only element of a Directors pay production targets.
Portfolio objectives are set which is pensionable.
Annual reviews take regarding progress towards potential non-core The prioritised goals for 2009 focused on funding, into consideration advice from remuneration asset divestitures and new ventures.
Corporate preparing and progressing the Companys consultants regarding relevant current market goals, safety and environmental measures and portfolio of projects to the next appropriate stage practice for salary levels and salary increases, financial measures against budgeted levels are of execution.
An exceptionally active drilling as well as demonstrated performance.
Following additionally established as deemed appropriate.
programme is now scheduled to begin in 2010 the annual review conducted in December 2009, with potential impact on reserves and production with effect from 1 January 2010 each Executive The performance measures for 2010 are intended from development, appraisal and exploration Directors basic salary has been increased by to focus behaviour and activity towards deploying projects, which is the culmination of the 3% 2009 nil %.
the Companys strategy of progressing projects, significant effort and achievement of objectives capturing their potential and realising value for across the portfolio throughout 2009.
The TGT shareholders at an appropriate stage.
This development plan received Government approval, emphasises achievements required to grow the and benchmark targets critical to maintaining the The performance business over the longer term rather than short accelerated development on schedule for a 2011 measures for 2010 term revenues, and avoids promoting excess risk start up were met.
The Company successfully taking to achieve a short term bonus opportunity.
planned and executed a two well drilling are intended to focus The actual achievement of each goal is ranked programme in Africa, achieving a 50% success behaviour and activity against a scale of expectations.
Goals targeting rate with the results of the Viodo well.
appropriate stewardship of the Companys towards deploying the resources in the current economic environment The first well, which represented an opportunity will continue to have increased priority.
to exceed target performance, was not Companys strategy Additionally, objectives over safety and successful.
The measure of corporate goals environmental measures have increased in aimed at ensuring appropriate funding for the Bonus priority in conjunction with commencing drilling Groups programmes is evidenced by the year Bonus awards are considered in two levels, operations in Africa.
The Committee retains end cash position and the successful January wherein expected performance will result in discretion over the amount of bonus paid out to 2010 placing of 7.2 million shares, which was awards in a target range of up to 50% of salary, ensure that appropriate consideration is given to considered well executed and well received by with a stretch level providing a maximum annual the relative importance of the achievements in the both the market and shareholders generally.
cash bonus opportunity of up to 100% of salary.
year and the actual contribution of these towards Based on these achievements, performance was The Remuneration Committee, however, reserves furthering the Companys strategic plan.
The measured on target for 2009 and bonuses were the ability to award a bonus above this maximum specific targets set against these measures are awarded to Mr Ed Story and Mr Roger Cagle amount in the event of truly exceptional considered to be commercially sensitive and at the target bonus level of 50% of salary in performance in the year.
are therefore not set out herein.
accordance with the Companys policies.
SOCO International plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The Directors Remuneration Report continued the course of the annual review in December, which is intended to put in place an opportunity for regular annual vesting based on performance The Committees review in 2009 additionally targets achieved over successive three year focused on the comparator group, which to date periods.
Award levels will take into account the has comprised sector comparators in the UK nature of performance targets to ensure that listed environment.
For the December 2009 projected total compensation opportunity at awards this group has been extended to include assumed levels of share price growth is other international comparators, focusing appropriate in the prevailing market.
Once the primarily on companies in the exploration sector.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Committee determines performance criteria Participation in the Companys LTIP is have been met, there may additionally be a discretionary and determined in consideration requirement that awards be held for a specified of corporate and individual performance.
Awards retention period prior to exercise or receipt.
2009 focused on are subject to limits on individual participation whereby the market value, as measured at the funding, preparing After conducting a specific 2009 review and date of grant, of shares subject to awards made assessment of alternative performance measures, and progressing the in any financial year will not exceed 200% of the the Remuneration Committee continues to executives total earnings in that year, except in consider that the Companys relative total Companys projects exceptional circumstances on appointment.
The shareholder return TSR provides the primary Committee, however, has a policy of operating basis for determining the value generated for within the more restrictive annual limit of 200% shareholders over the longer term, and is also The enlarged comparator group, which is set out of the executives base salary.
the primary indicator of the Companys overall below, has been applied to awards granted in corporate performance.
No change to the December 2009.
In consideration of corporate An employee benefit trust currently holds performance measure is proposed, as the and individual performance discretionary awards sufficient SOCO shares to satisfy all shares Companys long term goals remain unchanged were granted over shares with a market value of conditionally awarded under the LTIP, as more and, despite the potential impact of market 190% of base salary.
fully described in Note 26 to the financial volatility on this measure, the Committee statements.
Decisions governing acquisitions of considers it will continue to align the executives The TSR comparator group for awards made in shares into the trust are considered and approved interests to those of shareholders.
Accordingly, respect of the periods between 2006 and 2008 by the full Board.
The aggregate number of new performance targets for awards to date have and in December 2009 is set out below: issue shares which may be subject to awards been set with reference to the Companys relative under all relevant executive share schemes shall TSR performance over a three year period against Afren, Bowleven, Cairn Energy, Coastal not exceed 5% of the ordinary share capital of a range of comparator companies in the oil Energy, Dana Petroleum, DNO International, the Company in any rolling ten year period.
Prior to the Gulfsands Petroleum, Hardy Oil and Gas, Accordingly, at 31 December 2009, 3.8 million vesting of an award, TSR results will continue to Heritage Oil, JKX Oil and Gas, Lundin new issue shares 2008 3.7 million may be be underpinned by additionally considering, in Petroleum, Maurel & Prom, Newfield subject to awards, of which there is available light of any exceptional circumstances during the Exploration, Nexen, Niko Resources, Oil capacity remaining of 1.9 million shares 2008 relevant three year period, whether the TSR Search, Premier Oil, Regal Petroleum, ROC Oil, 0.9 million.
results are consistent with the achievement of Salamander Energy, Santos, SOCO, Sterling actual underlying financial and operational Energy, Talisman Energy, Tullow Oil.
At the date of grant of an award, the Committee performance of the Company.
For awards to date, sets appropriate performance criteria to be this shall primarily be assessed, on the basis of The original comparator group also included Aminex, and measured on the third anniversary of the date appropriate external advice, in terms of the additionally included Burren Energy, First Calgary and Venture of grant and deemed fulfilled to the satisfaction additions to and the management and quality of Production who have subsequently been fide-listed.
of the Committee before the award can be the Groups oil and gas reserves in view of goals exercised or vest.
LTIP awards are considered in set by the Board.
Additional comparator companies for 2009 awards Governance Attendance of Directors and Committee Members Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Committee Committee Committee No.
of Meetings R fide Sousa P Kingston O Barbaroux R Cagle R Cathery E Contini J Norton M Roberts J Synder E Story SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 53 Total Shareholder Return % Total Shareholder Return % 500 500 400 400 300 300 200 200 100 100 0 0 Dec 2004 Dec 2005 Dec 2006 Dec 2007 Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2004 Dec 2005 Dec 2006 Dec 2007 Dec 2008 Dec 2009 SOCO cumulative FTSE Oil & Gas cumulative Source: Datastream SOCO cumulative FTSE Oil & Gas cumulative Source: Datastream Five Year TSR Performance The performance graph above sets out SOCOs TSR performance over the past five years.
The FTSE Oil & Gas Index performance is similarly set out, being a broad market index which is Measurement of the Companys performance sector specific.
criteria is carried out with reference to external data sources provided by the Committees remuneration advisors to ensure its independence.
No award will vest if the TSR Performance measures ranking is below the median.
If ranking exceeds will continue to align the the median, 30% of the award will become capable of vesting, with full vesting only for executives interests to performance in the top 16 percentile.
The actual those of shareholders Other Policies vesting percentage will be calculated on a pro rata basis between ranking positions to more With prior approval of the Board, Executive Directors are allowed to accept non-executive closely reflect SOCOs actual TSR performance relative to the next highest and lowest Share Option Plans appointments to other boards and to retain the associated directors fees.
Under this policy Mr Ed comparators.
At the 2009 AGM, shareholders approved The SOCO 2009 Discretionary Share Option Plan the Story serves on the board of Cairn India Limited and previously served on the board of Cairn Energy Following measurement of the Companys Plan, which is intended to provide flexibility in performance against the comparator group for motivating and retaining senior staff members.
PLC for which he retained associated fees for 2009 awards granted in 2006, 59% of the awards have No awards have been granted under the Plan.
Mr Roger Cagle serves on been declared vested.
The Committee is satisfied There is no current intention for Executive the boards of Vostok Energy Limited and Dominion that the performance criteria measurement has Directors to participate.
Petroleum Limited and retained associated fees for resulted in a vesting level appropriate to the 2009 in the amount of 56,667. underlying performance of the Company over the Pension Contributions performance period.
Those awards not declared In 2009, contributions were paid into two money The Executive Directors have held, and continue vested have lapsed.
purchase pension schemes in respect of the to build, a meaningful shareholding since Executive Directors.
Annual contribution levels founding the Company in 1997.
Accordingly, Further details of incentive share awards are set are set at 15% of salary.
The Company monitors and giving due respect to the Executives out in the table on page 55 and in Note 27 to the its pension commitments, including Executive demonstrated actions, the Board has not set this financial statements.
Charges which have been Directors arrangements, in light of pension requirement out in policy.
An appropriate policy reflected in the Groups income statement in legislation and taxation in the relevant regarding shareholding targets will be given respect of incentive schemes are set out in jurisdictions.
No changes in contribution levels consideration upon any prospective Executive Note 27 to the financial statements.
SOCO International plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Emoluments Audited Fees basic Benefits Annual Total Total salary in kind bonus 2009 2008 1 $000s $000s $000s $000s $000s Executive Directors E Story 814 48 407 1,269 1,333 R Cagle 611 47 305 963 1,020 2 NonExecutive Directors R fide Sousa 236 236 250 3 P Kingston 102 102 120 O Barbaroux 63 63 67 R Cathery 63 63 67 E Contini 63 63 67 A Monteiro 35 35 J Norton 63 63 67 M Roberts 63 63 67 J Snyder 28 28 67 M Watts 24 24 Aggregate emoluments 2,165 95 712 2,972 3,125 1 Benefits include medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life assurance cover, critical illness cover, travel and expatriate benefits and car benefits.
2 NonExecutive Directors fees are set in GB pounds and have been reported in US dollars at the annual average exchange rate.
3 Emoluments receivable by Mr Peter Kingston are paid to Peter Kingston & Associates.
No Directors received amounts as compensation for loss of office as a Director during the year.
Directors Contracts Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors contracts are for an indefinite The remuneration of the Non-Executive Chairman period and are terminable by either party on is set by the Committee and approved by the giving one years notice which may be satisfied Board.
The remuneration for other Non-Executive with a payment in lieu of notice.
The contracts do Directors is recommended by the Chief Executive not contain specific termination provisions.
The and the Chairman and determined by the Board Committee has a duty to prevent the requirement as a whole.
Remuneration levels are set based on to make payments that are not strictly merited, outside advice and the review of current practices and endorses the principle of mitigation of Directors Transactions Pursuant to a lease dated 20 April 1997, Comfort in other companies, giving consideration to the damages on early termination of a service time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
Any payment on early termination Storyville a company wholly owned by Mr Ed Story has leased to the Group office and storage In consideration of increasing demands and fee will be assessed on the basis of the particular levels in recent years generally, SOCO has given circumstances, but in any event will not be space in Comfort, Texas.
The lease, which was negotiated on an arms length basis, has a fixed particular attention to benchmarking data to in respect of any period beyond the one year ensure its fees remain appropriate.
Based on specified by contract.
The Non-Executive monthly rent of $1,000.
these factors, the annual fees for services remain Directors appointments are terminable at the unchanged from those rates reflected in the will of the parties but are envisaged to establish In March 2008, the Company, through its Group subsidiary, entered into a production sharing table above.
The fees have been set within the an initial term of three years after which they will aggregate limits set out in the Companys Articles be reviewed annually.
The dates of the Directors contract over Block 5, located in eastern of Association and approved by shareholders.
service contracts or letters of appointment, Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa.
Mr Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for which may not coincide with their initial date Roger Cagle is the Non-Executive Chairman participation in the Companys incentive schemes of appointment, are set out in the Annual Report of Dominion Petroleum Limited, one of the or pension schemes.
of the Directors on page 37. co-venturers.
LTIPs were exercised on 8 January 2009 at a market price of 12.046, resulting in a gain of 0.9 million and 0.6 million on exercise by Mr Ed Story and Mr Roger Cagle, respectively.
Those awards set out as exercisable prior to 1 January 2008 are in the form of nil price options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
Awards exercisable subsequently are in the form of contingent rights to acquire ordinary shares in the Company at no cost.
Those awards set out as exercisable prior to 1 January 2010 have been tested against the relevant performance schedules attached to the awards and the balance held as at 31 December 2009 has been determined to be fully vested.
Vesting of the awards exercisable subsequently and delivery of shares remains conditional upon performance criteria and consideration of Model Code restrictions.
The date of expiry of awards may be delayed in consideration of Model Code restrictions.
2 Options may not be exercised without appropriate Board consents, the Board having given consideration to any requirements on participants to maintain a specified minimum number of shares under option or equivalent shareholding requirements.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2009 was 13.40 and the range during the year to 31 December 2009 was 9.345 to 14.85.
SOCO International plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Interests The Directors who held office at 31 December 2009 had the following interests all of which were beneficial except as noted below in the ordinary shares of the Company Shares, warrants to subscribe for the same number of Shares Warrants and contingent rights or options to acquire Shares Options at 31 December 2009: 1 Number of Shares Number of Options Number of Warrants 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 Executive Director E Story 2,874,459 2,826,415 696,084 657,880 2 R Cagle 1,780,769 1,726,843 826,399 774,340 Non-Executive Director 3 R fide Sousa 770,076 770,076 1,509,201 1,509,201 P Kingston 4,000 4,000 O Barbaroux 20,000 20,000 R Cathery 100,000 100,000 E Contini 55,000 50,000 A Monteiro J Norton 115,000 115,000 M Roberts 5,000 5,000 M Watts 6,020 1 Details of Options granted to or held by the Directors in respect of their services as a director, including any relevant conditions of exercise, are set out in the table of Directors Incentive Share Awards.
2 At 31 December 2009, Mr Roger Cagles interests included 637,053 Shares 2008 614,338 and 328,816 Options 2008 309,160 held by Ms Cynthia Cagle, the Options having been granted to her in respect to her services to the Group.
3 48,652 Shares 2008 48,652 are held by Mr Rui fide Sousa personally.
721,424 Shares 2008 721,424, 55,336 Warrants 2008 55,336 at an exercise price of 0.55 per Share, 925,187 Warrants 2008 925,187 at an exercise price of 0.60 per Share and 528,678 Warrants 2008 528,678 at an exercise price of 0.65 per Share are held by Palamos Limited, a connected person to Mr fide Sousa.
Whilst the Executive Directors, as potential beneficiaries, are technically deemed to have an interest in all Shares held by the SOCO Employee Benefit Trust Trust, the table above only includes those Shares which are potentially transferable to the Directors and their families pursuant to Options which have been granted to them under incentive schemes facilitated by the Trust.
Details of the Trust and its holdings are set out in Note 26 to the financial statements.
Subsequent to 31 December 2009, 30,000 Shares were acquired by Mr Rui fide Sousa personally, 2,000 Shares were acquired by Mr Olivier Barbaroux and 4,665 Shares were acquired by Dr Mike Watts.
There have been no other changes in the interests of the Directors between 31 December 2009 and the date of this report.
No Director held any other interests in any Group companies.
which principally affected the profits or net assets Under the terms of an acquisition approved of the Group, are shown in Note 17 of the by shareholders in 1999, the Company and its financial statements.
The Group has entered into strategic shareholder group Investor Group, a consulting agreement, which the parties have including Quantic Limited Quantic in which Mr agreed to extend through December 2010, Rui fide Sousa has a non-notifiable share interest, wherein Quantic is entitled to a consulting fee in jointly participate in certain regions in which the amount of $50,000 per month in respect of the Investor Group utilises its long established such services as are required to review, assess industry and government relationships to and progress the realisation of oil and gas negotiate and secure commercial rights in oil exploration and production opportunities in and gas projects.
In the 2004 Annual Report and certain areas.
Accounts the form of participation to be utilised was set out to be through equity shareholdings Approval This report was approved by the Board of in which the Investor Group holds a minority interest in special purpose entities created to hold Directors on 23 March 2010 and signed on its behalf by: such projects.
The shareholding terms have been modelled after the SOCO Vietnam Ltd arrangement Peter Kingston which was negotiated with third parties.
Quantics minority holdings in the subsidiary undertakings, Remuneration Committee Chairman Financials SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 57 Financials SOCO International plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Financials From left: Robert Harris Corporate Financial Controller Neil Gibson Manager Group Reporting, Taxation & Treasury
