Directors Report | Directors Remuneration Report 101 Corporate Governance My introduction to the 2009 Directors We are therefore proposing to reshape the incentive structures supports the best Remuneration Report seeks to give context Groups long-term incentive arrangements, not interests of the business and shareholders to the pages that follow.
to increase the overall value of the package, over the medium and long term.
but to recognise that AstraZeneca operates As we indicated in last years Directors in a uniquely long-term industry.
We aim to The 2009 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Report, the Remuneration strengthen thereby the alignment between which follows describes the key principles that Committee has undertaken and completed the time horizons over which our business have informed the Remuneration Committees a review of Executive Director and SET investment decisions are taken and those to thinking, and provides a summary of the member remuneration during the course of which our share incentive programmes relate.
As part of this process, we have shareholder approval for the new share plan consulted a number of institutional investors, You will see that we are proposing the at the AGM on 29 April 2010.
Detailed plan and are grateful for their contribution to the introduction of a new share plan to operate terms, along with the specific performance development of our proposals.
alongside the existing Performance Share requirements that will apply to the initial Plan and simultaneous with the cessation awards, will be set out in the circular sent We have concluded that the fundamental of further grants of options under the Share to shareholders in advance of the AGM.
principles that underpin the Companys Option Plan with an eight-year time horizon.
approach to remuneration remain appropriate Shareholders have been receptive to a These proposals will facilitate the delivery of for the business and our current strategy.
At long-term plan of this nature, conditional on AstraZenecas business strategy.
They explicitly the same time, we now have the opportunity, sustainable financial performance and delivery reflect the discussions that we have had with by developing our compensation structures, of shareholder returns.
At the same time, our shareholders.
On behalf of the Remuneration to build on the historical financial success discussions with investors have recognised Committee, I commend them to you.
of the Group, to invest for the future, and to that the long-term nature of the plan means focus on stewardship and shareholder that the Remuneration Committee should John Varley value-creation over the long term.
retain some flexibility as to the operation of Non-Executive Director the plan to ensure that this combination of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Directors Remuneration Committee and services that materially assisted the membership and meetings Committee.
On one occasion in 2009, the Remuneration The members of the Remuneration Committee invited Simon Lowth CFO to Committee Committee are John Varley attend a meeting to provide background Report Chairman of the Committee, John Buchanan, information about performance measures Louis Schweitzer and Nancy Rothwell.
They that materially assisted the Committee in are all Non-Executive Directors.
The Board connection with its review of long-term This Directors Remuneration Report Report considers them all to be independent Louis incentive LTI arrangements for SET members.
has been prepared in accordance with the Schweitzer was considered by the Board This was part of the overall review of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and to be independent upon his appointment remuneration of SET members, including Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations as Chairman: in accordance with the that of Executive Directors, which began in 2008 Regulations and meets the relevant Combined Code, the test of independence 2009 and is referred to in more detail below.
requirements of the Financial Services is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman Authoritys Listing Rules.
As required by after his appointment.
The independence of The Committee retains Carol Arrowsmith the Regulations, a resolution to approve the Non-Executive Directors is discussed in of Deloitte LLP Deloitte who provided this Report will be proposed at the AGM on more detail in the Business Organisation and independent advice on various matters it 29 April 2010.
Corporate Governance section from page 87. considered in 2009.
During the year, Deloitte The Company Secretary acts as the secretary also provided taxation advice and other The following sections of this Report, up to the Committee.
non-audit services to the Company.
to and including the Non-Executive Directors section on page 110, were not subject to The Committee met six times in 2009.
Committee terms of reference and audit by KPMG.
The individual attendance record of key activities during the year members of the Committee is set out Committee terms of reference in the Board and Committee meeting A copy of the Committees terms of reference attendance in 2009 table on page 92. is available on the Companys website, astrazeneca.
com, or by request from the At the invitation of the Committee, except Company Secretary.
where their own remuneration was being discussed, David Brennan CEO : Lynn The role of the Committee is to develop and Tetrault Executive Vice-President, Human deploy remuneration policies and practices Resources and Corporate Affairs : Simon for senior management, and for the Group Appleby Vice-President, Performance and more broadly, that support the implementation Reward : and Viv Gill Vice-President, Global of our business strategy and which thereby Compensation attended Committee help the organisation to create value for meetings in 2009 and provided advice shareholders over time.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 102 Directors Report | Directors Remuneration Report The Committee has responsibility for A review of the terms of senior executives Shareholder approval to operate the SOP determining on behalf of the Board the remuneration packages on appointment, expires during May 2010.
This provided individual compensation paid to Executive promotion and termination.
the Company with a natural opportunity Directors and SET members.
It takes The assessment of Company and to review the current approach to responsibility on behalf of the Board for individual performance against remuneration, pay policies and incentive reviewing the design and operation of total performance targets to determine structures and to consider how these compensation structures and practices the level of executive bonuses for 2008 may best be developed to support the across AstraZeneca.
In this regard, the and to set executive bonus performance business strategy going forward.
Committees approval is required in relation to, targets for 2009.
The Committee is aware that the subject amongst other things, decisions regarding: The approval of awards made under of executive remuneration is much on the the Groups main LTI plans: minds of shareholders and that, since its The eligibility, structure, award grant levels, the AstraZeneca Performance Share last review, a great deal has changed both performance metrics and targets, costs Plan PSP : the AstraZeneca Share in the general market and the corporate and final vesting levels under LTI plans for Option Plan SOP : and the AstraZeneca governance landscape and in the shape Directors, other SET members and the Pharmaceuticals LP Restricted Stock of, and strategic challenges faced by, the Company Secretary.
Unit Award Plan RSU Plan to SET global pharmaceutical industry.
Annual bonus payments for Executive members and other participants.
Directors, other SET members and senior A review of the Companys governance In conducting this review, the Committee executives below SET level.
arrangements for global compensation has been mindful of shareholder views and The pension entitlements of Executive matters.
expectations, and has sought to give major Directors and other SET members.
shareholders an opportunity to influence the A benchmarking review of the The Chairman of the Boards remuneration Committees activities and policies direction of the proposals by dialogue during which is approved by the other members against institutional investor guidelines.
of the Committee and the senior A review of the pension entitlements independent Non-Executive Director.
Key remuneration principles of Executive Directors and other Any single payment or award over SET members.
The Committee concluded that the following $1 million.
A review of the impact on compensation objectives should continue to define its Shareholding guidelines for Executive policies and practices of the current approach to the formation and execution Directors and other SET members.
of AstraZenecas remuneration policy: economic environment, including The contractual terms and conditions ensuring the appropriate degree of risk of, and any potential or actual payments adjustment to aggregate and individual All aspects of executive remuneration arising on termination to, Executive compensation decisions.
should be developed in the context of Directors, other SET members and shareholder views on best practice and The preparation, review and approval of the Company Secretary so as to ensure this Report.
be designed to help AstraZeneca create that they are fair to the individual and the sustainable growth in shareholder value by Company, that failure is not rewarded Review of SET remuneration the successful implementation of strategy.
and that the duty to mitigate loss is The 2008 Directors Remuneration Report Reward structures and performance fully recognised.
explained that the Company would undertake measures should support a strong a review of total remuneration for SET performance culture enabling delivery of The Committee will again conduct a review members including Executive Directors the business strategy, where all employees of its terms of reference during 2010, taking during 2009.
This review is now drawing to have a clear understanding of the Groups advice as appropriate from its external adviser.
a close and has led to the development of objectives, how their work will impact the forward-looking remuneration policy those objectives and how they will benefit Key activities during the year disclosed in this Report.
from delivering high levels of performance.
The Committee considered the following Base pay and total compensation principal matters during 2009: There were a number of factors that prompted positioning against the market should this review: be appropriate to attract and develop The strategic review of the remuneration high-calibre talent and SET remuneration and incentive framework for Executive When the PSP was approved by should continue to be referenced to Directors and other SET members.
shareholders at the AGM in early 2005 competitive levels of remuneration in This has represented a considerable following the last full-scale review of the relevant local markets.
proportion of the Committees activities executive remuneration, the Committee and focus during the course of the year.
undertook to review its operation within a Additionally, some specific objectives have As part of its review, the Committee has period of five years, and to take into been established as a consequence of undertaken a significant consultation with account the views of the Companys the review.
These support the introduction major shareholders and institutional shareholders and the needs of the of a new incentive structure to allow us to investor organisations.
rebalance our LTI framework and include the following: AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Directors Remuneration Report 103 Corporate Governance A clear desire in the business, supported Shareholder approval will be sought at the This free cash flow measure has been by the Committee, to move towards a AGM in April 2010 for the introduction of chosen because it encompasses a number longer-term framework which will a new share plan called the AstraZeneca of important elements of operational and strengthen alignment with the inherently Investment Plan AZIP to operate alongside financial performance and helps to align long-term nature of pharmaceutical drug the existing PSP with an eight-year time executives rewards with shareholder development.
Shareholders have been receptive to value-creation.
The level of vesting of this Revised LTI structures, designed to a long-term plan of this nature, conditional on element will be based on a sliding scale provide a clear focus for the business to sustainable shareholder returns and financial against a target that is intended to represent outperform our industry peers over time, performance.
Such a plan will provide annual a significant challenge for the business.
It is to deliver operational efficiency and to awards to Executive Directors and other SET intended that the Committee should have the engender a strong sense of stewardship members which must be held for a total of discretion to adjust, but on an exceptional that will deliver long-term sustainable eight years and are subject to a four-year basis only, the free cash flow target during shareholder value.
performance requirement from the date the performance period for material factors of award.
that might otherwise distort the performance No other element of Executive Director or SET measure in either direction.
This is so that remuneration will change as a consequence The greater weighting within the LTI performance can be assessed against targets of the review.
In particular, there is no intention opportunity will be given to awards under that have been set on a consistent basis.
to increase the overall quantum of short-term the PSP.
For 2010, awards under the PSP For example, adjustments may be required bonus or long-term reward opportunity and will be positioned so that interests under this to reflect exchange rate movements, the annual incentive structure remains plan can deliver 75% of the overall expected significant acquisitions or divestments and unchanged.
25% of major legal and taxation settlements.
Any the overall long-term opportunity for 2010 major adjustments to the calculation will be The review has also concluded that the will therefore be delivered through the AZIP.
There will be no shareholding guidelines for Executive The Committee will keep under review the retesting of performance.
Further information Directors and other SET members will be appropriateness of this weighting.
about the applicable free cash flow target increased from current levels and, as such, will be set out in the Notice of AGM and the shareholding requirement for the CEO is The combination of awards under these two shareholders circular.
being increased to 200% of base salary plans will fundamentally improve the alignment from 100% and the requirement for all other between the time horizons over which our Performance requirement for awards Executive Directors and SET members will be business investment decisions are taken and under the AZIP increased to 125% of base salary from 100%.
those to which our long-term remuneration The AZIP will be aligned to AstraZenecas vehicles relate.
targeted product development cycle, reflecting Long-term share plans the long term investment horizons that are a The SOP will expire during 2010 and the Performance conditions for the PSP feature of the industry.
The performance review has concluded that no further grants To date, awards to Executive Directors and requirements attached to awards under the will be made under the SOP.
other SET members under the PSP were AZIP will be a combination of dividend and subject to a TSR-only performance condition.
dividend cover tests, assessed over a period From 2010 onwards, and subject to of up to four financial years beginning at the shareholder approval of the new share For awards to be made in 2010 under the start of the first financial year of the Company plan, it is proposed that the long-term share PSP, it is intended that: in which the award is granted.
A subsequent interests of Executive Directors and other sale restriction will apply over a period that SET members will be provided through two 50% of the award will be based on relative extends to the full eight-year period, during complementary share plans as detailed below.
TSR against a selected peer group of global which time forfeiture provisions will usually pharmaceutical companies, of which: apply.
Accordingly, participants will not The PSP will continue to operate.
However, 25% of the maximum award will vest generally be able to realise value until the full performance conditions will be rebalanced for performance at the median of the eight-year period has elapsed.
so that the current relative TSR performance peer group: and condition will apply in respect of one half of any 75% of the maximum award will vest The Committees intention in its choice of award made under the PSP as opposed to for upper quartile performance: the proposed performance tests has been to 100%, as under the current terms of the PSP.
Committee will retain its existing establish a performance requirement that The other half of the award will be subject to discretion to determine the amount of motivates financial business performance a new cash flow performance measure that vesting for performance significantly that will generate returns for shareholders on will improve the focus on operational above upper quartile, up to 100% of a sustainable basis over an extended time management of the business that is consistent the maximum award.
Further details relating to the proposed with generating value for shareholders.
We 50% of the award will vest subject to performance requirement and targets for have chosen a cash flow measure because the achievement of a free cash flow 2010 awards will be provided in the Notice of it will encompass all elements of operational target, which will operate as a cumulative AGM and shareholders circular.
and financial performance, represents a cash flow target over a three-year strong proxy through time for shareholder performance period.
value-creation and is a key measure for the Group.
In conjunction with this new measure, the TSR performance condition will continue to strengthen the focus on outperformance of competitors.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 104 Directors Report | Directors Remuneration Report Components of remuneration Component of remuneration Role within the remuneration framework Summary of Policy Applies to Base salary fixed Base fixed remuneration.
Based on conditions in the relevant All employees geographic market and recognising the value of an individuals sustained personal performance and contribution to the business, taking account of the market rate for an individuals skills and experience.
Pension arrangements fixed Provision of retirement benefits.
Benchmarked against the relevant All employees local employment market.
Benefits fixed Provision of standard non-cash employment Cost-effective and compatible with All employees benefits, such as healthcare, insurances relevant welfare arrangements and and, for certain employees, facilitated car local market norms.
Short-term bonus variable An annual cash incentive opportunity Differs by market, but the Group All eligible employees determined by reference to Group, functional performance measures ensure that and individual performance, measured over all eligible employees receive an element a single financial year of the Company and of reward based on the Companys taking into account external expectations overall financial performance.
The functional goals are agreed by the Committee at the start of the year and are derived from the business scorecard, the key elements of which are set out in the Strategy, objectives and 2009 performance table from page 16, and are monitored as part of the quarterly business review QBR process.
Individual goals are based on annual objectives, which are linked to functional goals.
Deferred bonus plan variable Aligns SET members interests with SET members must defer a proportion of SET members those of shareholders.
their short-term bonus currently one-third of pre-tax bonus for Executive Directors and one-sixth for other SET members into Ordinary Shares or ADSs for a three-year period.
LTI plans variable for more Long-term equity incentive awards to AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan.
SET members and information on these plans provide individual executives and employees other senior executives see the LTI plans section from with total compensation opportunities that page 107 are competitive against local market AstraZeneca Investment Plan from 2010, SET members practice, for the achievement of operational subject to shareholder approval.
excellence, strong financial performance and actions that are closely aligned with the Share Option Plan final awards made Senior management interests of shareholders.
Subject to in 2009. and SET members shareholder approval, the primary LTI plans in which SET members participate from 2010 will be the PSP and the AZIP.
Global Restricted Share Plan from 2010, Eligible employees globally replacing existing restricted stock unit plans.
Other share plans All employee share participation Examples include the Share Incentive Plan Eligible employees 1 arrangements, including some that are and Savings-Related Share Option Plan UK.
tax-approved, for example in the UK.
Shareholding guidelines Aligning SET members interests with The current expectation is for SET members SET members those of shareholders.
to hold shares with a value equivalent to their base salary.
From 2010, the CEO will be expected to hold shares equivalent to 200% of base salary and the CFO and other SET members will be expected to hold 125% of base salary in shares.
Overall approach When assessing the overall value of a SET members remuneration the Committee considers, both separately and in aggregate, each component of the SET members total remuneration.
1 Further information on these plans is provided in Note 24 to the Financial Statements from page 161.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Directors Remuneration Report 105 Corporate Governance 2010 proposed components of SET remuneration Fixed Elements Variable Elements Basic salary Linked to short-term performance Linked to long-term performance Pension Bonus AstraZeneca Investment Plan Benets such as healthcare Deferred Bonus Plan share-based Performance Share Plan 2009 components of remuneration creates value for its shareholders.
Such Remuneration and terms of During 2009, the remuneration components measures are designed to stretch and employment for Executive Directors for all Group employees including those of challenge the relevant individuals whilst at and other SET members SET members comprised fixed and variable the same time giving them an opportunity to Illustration of fixed and variable performance-related elements.
Summaries participate as shareholders in the creation of performance-related remuneration of these elements are included in the table on long-term economic value.
Based on AstraZenecas remuneration page 104. policy, the Components of remuneration The Company has continued to take into expected value basis charts below illustrate The way in which these elements of account the wider business environment and the potential weighting given to fixed and remuneration are combined and applied varies employment conditions across the Group.
variable performance-related elements of the according to a range of factors, including In particular, no base pay increases were remuneration package at Executive Director specific business needs and practices in awarded in respect of the 2009 calendar year level.
Variable performance-related elements different markets, although, in general, the to Executive Directors or other SET members of the package are shown on an expected more senior the role within the business, the whose responsibilities were unchanged.
value basis, and in the event that performance greater the proportion of total remuneration In addition, award opportunities under the conditions are not met, such elements would is made up of variable performance-related Groups LTI plan framework have been held not deliver any value.
The Committee seeks to ensure at a consistent level since the adoption of approach considers the range of possible that the overall proportion of variable pay the PSP in 2005. outcomes and the probability attached to which Executive Directors and other SET to each, in order to provide a value that members may become entitled forms a For 2010, the Company will continue to represents the average that would be delivered significant part of their overall remuneration benchmark against appropriate comparator if the arrangements were operated over many opportunity.
The Committees objective for companies and will assess whether or not and years.
The expected value for bonus senior management is to ensure that such to what extent the overall opportunities for payment is taken to be the target payout level.
variable pay is linked to a range of measures remuneration offered by the current structure designed to promote both individual and team of remuneration remain appropriate in the Fixed remuneration behaviour and performance in a way that context of changes within the business and Both Executive Directors terms and conditions supports the success of AstraZeneca and the external environment in which it operates.
are UK-based and are benchmarked against external UK comparators, apart from David Components of remuneration expected value basis Brennans pension and health insurance arrangements, which are described below.
Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer Base salary The base salary for Executive Directors and other SET members is determined by the D D A Committee.
Salary decisions reflect the A experience and performance of the individuals to whom they apply, taking account of market C competitiveness and the level of increases B applicable to employees in the wider Group.
C B The Committee has again decided that in the case of the CEO and those SET members other than the CFO whose responsibilities are unchanged, there will be no salary increases for 2010.
For Executive Directors and other Fixed % Variable % Fixed % Variable % SET members, the policy has been to position A Base Salary 22 B Bonus 22 A Base Salary 29 B Bonus 26 salaries at the median of the relevant market.
C PSP 42 C PSP 34 In accordance with this policy, and given that D AZIP 14 D AZIP 11 his base salary has remained at the same level since he was appointed as an Executive Executive Directors base salaries in 2009 and 2010 Director in 2007, Simon Lowth CFO has been Annual salary in 2009 Annual salary in 2010 Increase Executive Director % awarded a base salary increase, effective David Brennan 972,900 972,900 from 2010, illustrated in the table opposite.
1 John Patterson 540,000 n a n a Simon Lowth 550,000 620,000 13 The base salaries of Executive Directors are set out opposite.
1 John Patterson retired from the Board on 31 March 2009.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 106 Directors Report | Directors Remuneration Report Pension arrangements UK Executive Directors Benefits The table in the Defined benefit arrangements pension arrangements In conjunction with the majority of employers, section on page 113 gives details of the UK Executive Directors have the option to certain benefits are made available to changes in the value of the Executive participate in a UK pension plan according to Executive Directors and other SET Directors accrued pensions during 2009. their eligibility, or to take a cash allowance in members via local benefits programmes lieu of pension.
The cash allowance is offered by AstraZeneca.
Benefits under CEOs pension arrangements consistent with the appropriate value of the these programmes typically include David Brennan is a member of the alternative gross pension benefit.
healthcare, insurances and facilitated car AstraZeneca US Defined Benefit Pension purchase arrangements.
Plan US DBP, by virtue of his membership John Patterson formerly Executive Director, of pension plans applicable to legacy Astra Development elected to take the cash Variable performanceMerck employees.
On his appointment to allowance in lieu of pension for the option year related remuneration the Board, the rules of the US DBP were 1 July 2008 to 30 June 2009 as detailed Executive Directors and other SET members amended so as to remove bonus payments in the Defined contribution arrangements are eligible to participate in different elements from the calculation of his pensionable pay.
section on page 113. of variable performance-related pay, which Benefits for members of the US DBP are are described below.
The decision as to delivered on a tax-qualified basis, with accrued In respect of pension accrued up to his whether or not in any given year they receive benefits that exceed specific limits under retirement, he remained a member of the any or all of their elements of variable pay is the plans formula and the US Tax Code AstraZeneca main UK defined benefit pension determined by the Committee, which will being delivered through a supplementary, plan AstraZeneca Pension Fund.
The normal typically have regard to the performance of non-qualified plan.
pension age under this plan is 62.
However, the individual and the Group and will consider a members accrued pension is available the elements of variable pay applicable to The normal pension age under the US DBP from age 60 without any actuarial reduction.
senior employees in other comparable is 65.
However, on leaving or retiring from John Patterson retired from the AstraZeneca organisations in making such a determination.
employment, David Brennan is eligible to take Pension Fund on 6 April 2009 aged 61 and a pension or lump sum equivalent based on was eligible to take a pension based on Short-term bonus accrued service and final pensionable pay accrued service and final pensionable pay.
Performance criteria ie without actuarial reduction due to his He opted to take a commutation lump sum Executive Directors and other SET members satisfaction of a condition in the pension plan on retirement, in lieu of part of his pension are eligible for a short-term bonus.
The basis relating to the combined age and service entitlement.
This lump sum was calculated for the payment of any short-term bonus is exceeding 85 years, as previously disclosed.
and granted in accordance with the rules determined by reference to a range of factors of the AstraZeneca Pension Fund and linked to the underlying performance of David Brennans participation in the US amounted to 785,000.
This reduced his AstraZenecas business, the performance of DBP is subject to a service cap at 35 years pension entitlement after commutation to the functional area for which the individual is service, which will be attained in January 303,000 per annum.
responsible and the performance of the 2011, after which no further service accrual individual in his or her role.
Pensions in payment are increased annually in line with inflation, as measured by the UK Structure and assessment of performance Members and, in the event of death, surviving Retail Prices Index, up to a maximum of 5%.
As set out in the 2008 Directors Remuneration spouses dependants can elect, in relation to Report, following a review by the Committee those benefits delivered on a tax-qualified Simon Lowth CFO is eligible to join the in 2008 of the performance criteria for the basis under the US DBP, to take pensions in AstraZeneca main UK defined contribution determination of annual bonuses for Executive lump sum form based on actuarial valuation.
pension plan UK Defined Contribution Plan Directors and other SET members, the Members or spouses dependants may not at a company contribution rate of 24% of performance criteria were adjusted in 2009 to make such an election in relation to any annual base salary or, alternatively, to take the align more closely with the current objectives supplementary non-qualified benefits.
company contribution as a cash allowance.
and measures that are used by the business, For the option years 1 July 2008 to 30 June and this approach will continue to apply for In addition, David Brennan as a US citizen 2009 and 1 July 2009 to 30 June 2010, he 2010.
For 2010, the bonus ranges are the is a contributing member of the US 401 k elected to take the cash allowance as detailed same as for 2009.
The bonus deferral 1 savings plan.
He also contributes to an in the Defined contribution arrangements requirements, described in more detail associated non-qualified plan, as described section on page 113. below, are also unchanged for 2010. in the Defined contribution arrangements Executive Directors and other SET members section on page 113.
In the event of a senior employee in the UK bonuses for 2009 were based on performance Defined Contribution Plan or where an criteria linked to the following targets: In the event of a US participant becoming alternative cash allowance has been taken incapacitated then permanent health becoming incapacitated, then permanent insurance cover will provide continuation health insurance cover provides continuation of a proportion of salary, subject to the of a proportion of salary subject to the satisfaction of certain medical criteria.
In the satisfaction of certain medical criteria.
In the event of the death of a participant prior to event of death prior to retirement, dependants 1 The 401 k savings plan is a qualified plan to which retirement, a life assurance policy will provide are entitled to a pension and or lump sum eligible employees may make salary-deferral surviving spouses dependants with a lump secured from a multiple of 10 times salary.
contributions on a post-tax and or pre-tax basis.
Employers may also make matching or non-elective sum equivalent to one times salary such contributions to the plan.
There is a supplementary salary being capped at the maximum non-qualified plan in place for all eligible employees pensionable salary under the plan.
whose earnings exceed specific limits.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Directors Remuneration Report 107 Corporate Governance 60% by reference to EPS, cash flow targets relation to the following categories, which Directors and other SET members.
This and the objectives in each of the strategic the Committee believes are consistent with arrangement is one of the ways in which, priority areas identified by the Board for delivering shareholder value: over time, Executive Directors and other SET the business, the key elements of which members will be able to build up a significant are set out in the Strategy, objectives and Strengthen the pipeline shareholding in the Company.
The proportion 2009 performance table from page 16 Grow the business currently deferred into shares is one-third of and which are monitored as part of the Reshape the business the pre-tax bonus for Executive Directors QBR against targets set by the Promote a culture of responsibility and one-sixth for other SET members.
Committee at the beginning of the year and accountability.
On leaving, participants would normally have and taking into account external to wait for the shares to be released at the expectations of performance: and When assessing the performance of the end of the three-year period.
For Executive 40% by reference to individual measures business in these categories, the Committee Directors and other SET members who cease and initiatives which link to the business noted that during 2009 there had been three employment for reasons other than that of objectives relevant to the individuals significant regulatory approvals across various good leaver for example, those who are functional accountability or, in the case jurisdictions, four regulatory submissions, dismissed, the deferred bonus award of the CEO, the average of these the agreement of three major late-stage will lapse, unless the Committee decides individual outcomes.
in-licensing deals and the announcement otherwise before the cessation of employment.
These measures reinforce AstraZenecas These achievements were underpinned LTI plans emphasis on individual and business by a continuing emphasis on reshaping the During 2009, Executive Directors and other accountability.
The key measures referred business and annualising the benefits from SET members were eligible to be granted to above are clearly set out in the Strategy, restructuring, the strong sales performance share option awards under the SOP and objectives and 2009 performance table from of the Group despite the ongoing challenging performance share awards under the PSP.
page 16, whereby Group and functional economic environment and a level of The grant of such options and award of such objectives and measures are managed in a employee engagement which was above shares were determined by the Committee, robust and consistent way and assessed by the industry average.
as were the performance targets that apply the SET as part of the QBR.
The outcome to their vesting and or exercise.
The PSP and of this process is rigorously scrutinised by Having assessed the Companys the SOP were intended to align the interests the Board.
performance against all the measures set of Executive Directors and other SET members out above, the Committee is satisfied that with those of shareholders.
For share option Bonus ranges for 2010 the bonus payments that have been earned awards granted under the SOP, it is the For 2010, the bonus ranges for each against stretching performance targets are expectation of the Committee that Executive Executive Director are shown below and are fully justified.
Directors and other SET members will retain the same as for 2009. the net number of shares from the exercise of The bonus outcomes for the Executive options for a period of not less than six months Bonus outcomes for 2009 Directors for 2009 are shown in the from the date of exercise.
As described above, In assessing bonuses for 2009, the Committee table below.
no further share option awards will be granted took into account the strong EPS excluding under the SOP and this plan will expire at restructuring and synergy costs and cash Bonus share deferral requirements the end of its 10-year life in May 2010.
The flow performance, which in both cases Consistent with best practice, the Committee Company will not be seeking re-approval of significantly exceeded budget, together with has put in place a requirement that certain the SOP by shareholders.
Those share option overall business and financial outcomes and proportions of any short-term bonus payment awards granted to date under the SOP will relevant functional performance against clear as specified below be deferred and invested remain exercisable until those options lapse.
measures and initiatives set at the beginning into Ordinary Shares or ADSs.
Broadly, these For further information on the SOP, see the of the bonus year.
The key elements of these are acquired on the open market at the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan section on strategic priorities and business objectives prevailing market price and held for a period page 109. are set out in the Strategy, objectives and of three years from the date of acquisition 2009 performance table from page 16, in before being delivered to individual Executive Bonus ranges for 2010 Bonus range for 2010 Executive Director % David Brennan 0-180 Simon Lowth 0-150 Bonus outcomes for 2009 Short-term bonus delivered as a combination of cash and shares, 1 as shown in the Directors emoluments in 2009 section from page 111 Executive Director 000 % of salary David Brennan 1,751 180 2 John Patterson 187 138 Simon Lowth 825 150 1 Bonuses for Executive Directors are not pensionable.
2 John Pattersons bonus for 2009 was considered by the Committee in January 2010 and his bonus was based on his eligible earnings for the period in 2009 prior to his retirement on 31 March 2009.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 108 Directors Report | Directors Remuneration Report Shareholding guidelines Performance conditions For these awards, AstraZenecas TSR For Executive Directors and other SET Save in exceptional circumstances, which are will be compared with the TSR for the 10 members, the Committee has established prescribed in the PSP rules, the vesting of companies remaining in the peer group in target shareholding guidelines, under which Share Awards is contingent on the satisfaction respect of the relevant performance period.
it is expected that they build up their own of specified performance targets and shareholding in the Company.
For 2009, the continued employment with the Group.
In TSR measures share price growth and Committees expectation was a shareholding addition to the satisfaction of these dividends re-invested in respect of a notional with a market value approximately equivalent performance targets, Share Awards will number of shares, from the beginning of the to their base salary.
As a result of the review generally not vest until the third anniversary relevant performance period to the end of it, of the remuneration of SET members carried of the date of grant, although Share Awards and ranks the companies in the selected out in 2009, the Committee concluded that may vest in part on a time pro-rated basis comparator group by reference to their TSR the target should be increased from 2010, where a participant ceases to be in relevant achieved over that period.
The rank which such that the CEO will be expected to hold employment under certain circumstances the Companys TSR achieves over the shares in the Company with a market value during the vesting period, to the extent that performance period will determine how many approximately equivalent to 200% of his base the performance targets have been met.
Shares will vest under the relevant Share salary.
For other Executive Directors and SET Award.
For the purposes of future members, the guideline is a shareholding Performance period and vesting dates communications to shareholders and PSP with a market value approximately equivalent In the case of all Share Awards granted to participants, payouts against performance in to 125% of their base salaries.
It is expected date, the performance target relates to the relation to TSR for all existing and future Share that these shareholding targets will be reached three-year period commencing on 1 January Awards will be expressed as a percentage of over a period of five years through shares of the year of grant.
Therefore, for the Share the maximum Share Award currently payable, delivered from the various LTI plans as well Awards made in 2009, the performance shown within a range of 0 to 100%.
This new as the deferred part of the short-term bonus period runs from 1 January 2009 to presentation is shown in the table below.
The vesting date is the TSR ranking Vesting percentage third anniversary of the date of grant.
of the Company % AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan Below median 0 The PSP was approved by shareholders Performance targets Median 25 at the AGM in 2005 and provides for the For all Share Awards granted so far to Upper quartile 75 grant of performance share awards Share Executive Directors and other SET members, Between median and upper quartile Pro rata Awards over Ordinary Shares or ADSs including Share Awards granted in 2009, Significantly above upper quartile Up to 100 together, Shares.
the performance target is the Companys TSR over the relevant three-year period Basis of participation To alleviate any short-term volatility, the return compared with the TSR of a selected peer The Committee is responsible for setting the group of pharmaceutical companies for index is averaged in the TSR calculations for policy for the way in which the PSP should the same period.
For share awards granted each company over the three months prior to the start and end of the relevant operate, including agreeing performance up to and including 2007 these companies targets, identifying which employees should performance period.
were: Abbott Laboratories, Inc. BMS, be invited to participate in the PSP and the Eli Lilly & Company, GlaxoSmithKline plc, level of Share Awards.
Participation is highly Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Novartis AG, In addition to the TSR performance target being met for each Share Award as set out selective and tends only to include senior Pfizer Inc. F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, employees on the basis of their performance.
above, the Committee also has to satisfy itself Sanofi-Aventis, Schering-Plough Corporation Share Awards are not pensionable and may and Wyeth Inc. As a result of corporate that achievement of the TSR performance not generally be assigned or transferred.
actions in the pharmaceutical sector during target is a genuine reflection of the Companys 2009, Schering-Plough Corporation and underlying financial performance and has Generally, Share Awards can be granted at any the discretion to prevent Share Awards from Wyeth Inc. have been removed from the time although in practice they are awarded peer group.
As a result of this, the Committee vesting or only to allow them to partially vest annually, but not during a close or prohibited has decided the following in relation to where this appears to the Committee to period of the Company.
In 2009, the main outstanding unvested awards: be warranted.
grant of Share Awards was made on 27 March, with other Share Awards approved by Share Awards in 2007: the TSR At the discretion of the Committee, more than the Committee in relation to, for example, new performance for Schering-Plough 75% of the maximum Share Award may vest, appointments, promotions or assignments Corporation and Wyeth Inc. was adjusted up to the limit of the maximum award, if the being granted on 28 August.
The value of Companys TSR performance is substantially from a date a week before the Shares subject to a Share Award is determined announcement of the relevant corporate better than that of the upper quartile of the by reference to the market price of Shares action to the end of the relevant comparator group.
For Share Awards to vest over the three-day period immediately performance period so as to track the at this level, the Company would need to preceding the date of grant.
have sustained a level of performance TSR of the acquiring companies Merck in the case of Schering-Plough and Pfizer significantly in excess of upper quartile over Details of Share Awards granted to Executive Inc. in the case of Wyeth Inc.. a period of years and the Committee would Directors are shown in the Performance Share Share Awards in 2008 and 2009: Scheringneed to be satisfied that this was warranted.
The number of any additional Shares that Plough Corporation and Wyeth Inc. were removed from the peer group thus may vest in this way may not exceed 25% of reducing the size of the peer group to the total number of Shares made the subject 10 companies excluding AstraZeneca.
of a Share Award on the date of grant.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Directors Remuneration Report 109 Corporate Governance For those Share Awards to be made in 2010, Basis of participation base figure being the EPS for the financial as described above, 50% of the Share The Committee was responsible for setting year preceding the date of grant, with no Awards will continue to be based on relative the policy for the way in which the SOP retesting.
In addition, since the review of TSR against a selected peer group of should operate, including agreeing executive remuneration in 2004, the pharmaceutical companies.
The remaining performance targets and identifying which Committee has included a condition that, if 50% will vest subject to performance employees should be invited to participate an event occurs which causes material against an adjusted free cash flow target.
and the level of Option Awards.
Participation reputational damage to the Company, such In respect of these awards, the relevant peer was highly selective and tended only to that it is not appropriate for the Option group for the TSR measure will be: Abbott include senior employees on the basis of Awards to vest and become exercisable, the Laboratories, Inc. BMS, Eli Lilly & Company, their performance except in the US where for Committee can make a determination to GlaxoSmithKline plc, Johnson & Johnson, reasons of custom and practice, participation reflect this.
Merck, Novartis AG, Pfizer Inc. F. Hoffmannin the SOP was more widespread.
Option La Roche Ltd and Sanofi-Aventis.
Further Awards were not pensionable and may not Change of control provisions information about the applicable free cash generally be assigned or transferred.
On a change of control of the Company as flow target will be set out in the Notice of a result of a general offer to acquire all of AGM and shareholders circular.
In 2009, the main grant of Option Awards the Ordinary Shares in the Company, any was made on 27 March, with other Option unvested Option Awards vest immediately Individual limit Awards approved by the Committee in following the change of control.
All outstanding In respect of any financial year of the relation to, for example, new appointments, vested Option Awards can be exercised Company, the maximum market value of promotions or assignments being granted during the period of six months from the Shares that may be put under a Share Award on 28 August.
The exercise price was fixed date of the change of control.
The Company in respect of an employee is 500% of that by reference to the market price of Shares will use its reasonable endeavours to ensure employees base salary.
over the three-day period immediately that any Shares acquired from an exercise preceding the date of grant.
following a change of control are subject to The actual individual limits that apply under the same terms as shares of the same class the PSP, subject to this maximum, are set by Details of Option Awards granted to Executive that were acquired under the general offer.
the Committee from time to time.
Directors are shown in the Share options table Unexercised Option Awards will lapse at the on page 118. end of the six-month period following a Performance under the PSP in 2009 change of control or, if the Option Award is The TSR graphs on page 114 show, for each Performance conditions exchanged for an option relating to shares in Share Award, how the Companys TSR The SOP rules require that the Committee, a different company, the date of exchange, performance has compared with the TSR for before agreeing to grant an Option Award whichever is earlier.
the companies in the comparator group from to Executive Directors and others, considers the first day of the relevant performance whether or not the underlying performance Dilution period to 31 December 2009 and how the of the Company justifies a grant.
In addition, The dilutive effect of the grants of Option Company ranks against those other peer it must also be satisfied that each individual Awards on the Companys issued share companies on this basis.
We will continue to nominated is performing to the necessary capital was also considered by the Committee, report on the performance of each Share standard.
in accordance with its commitment, reflecting Award against the relevant performance the guidance of the Association of British target during the relevant vesting period.
In agreeing grants of Option Awards in 2009, Insurers, that the percentage of the issued the Committee took into account strong share capital that could be allocated under Change of control provisions underlying financial performance and progress all of the Companys employee share plans On a change of control of the Company as towards achieving longer-term goals.
over a period of 10 years should be under a result of a general offer to acquire all of the 10%.
This commitment is applied by the Ordinary Shares in the Company, Share The Committee also sought and received Committee in practice as a limit, on average, Awards will vest pro-rata to the time elapsed assurances that each individual proposed of under 1% per annum.
The Committee between the date of grant of the Share Award for the grant of an Option Award has been concluded that a grant of Option Awards and the date of the change of control to the performing in a manner that justified a grant to those SOP participants and individual extent that the relevant performance targets to them.
There was some variation in the level Executive Directors proposed for a grant was have been met up to the date of the change of grants being proposed between individuals, appropriate given the level of performance of control or the most practicable earlier to reflect differing levels of performance and achieved.
None of the other LTI plans currently date.
The Committee will, however, have their seniority within the business.
operated by the Company have a dilutive discretion to take into account any other effect because they do not involve the issue factors it believes to be relevant in determining As well as taking into account these and allotment of new Ordinary Shares the extent to which Share Awards will vest in performance considerations at the point of but rather rely on the market purchase of these circumstances.
granting Option Awards, the Committee Ordinary Shares or ADSs that have already imposed performance conditions in respect been issued.
AstraZeneca Share Option Plan of the exercise of such Option Awards by SET The SOP was approved by shareholders at members including the Executive Directors the AGM in 2000 and provided for the grant which, in the view of the Committee, were of share option awards Option Awards considered appropriately stretching.
The SOP was approved for for Option Awards to vest, the EPS of the a period of 10 years and will expire in May Group must increase at least in line with the 2010.
The Company will not be seeking UK Retail Prices Index plus 5% per annum re-approval of the SOP by shareholders.
on average, over a three year period, the AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 110 Directors Report | Directors Remuneration Report Restricted Stock Unit Plans Zeneca 1994 Executive Share the Board to prevent or reduce the ability of The RSU Plan was introduced in 2007 and Option Scheme the executive to perform his or her role within provides for the grant of restricted stock unit The Zeneca 1994 Executive Share Option the Group to the required standard.
Such awards to selected employees predominantly Scheme Zeneca Plan was replaced by appointments are seen as a way in which in the US.
The last grant of options under executives can gain a broader business Stock Unit Award Plan MedImmune RSU the Zeneca Plan was in March 2000. experience and, in turn, benefit the Company.
Plan was introduced in 2008 to make Certain Executive Directors and other SET restricted stock unit awards to employees of members have options outstanding under John Patterson retired as an Executive MedImmune.
The RSU Plan and MedImmune the Zeneca Plan, all of which are exercisable, Director on 31 March 2009.
During 2009, RSU Plan are used in conjunction with the the performance conditions having been he continued to serve as a non-executive SOP to provide a mix of restricted stock units satisfied.
A description of the Zeneca Plan director of Cobham plc.
In respect of such and share options.
Restricted stock unit can be found in Note 24 to the Financial position, he retained the fees paid to him for awards typically vest on the third anniversary Statements from page 161. his services which, during the period from of the date of grant and are contingent on 1 January to 31 March, amounted to 16,875. continued employment with AstraZeneca.
In Other plans 2009, restricted stock unit awards were made In addition to the plans described above, Non-Executive Directors under the RSU Plan and the MedImmune the Company operates a Share Incentive Plan None of the Non-Executive Directors Plan on 27 March.
Neither the RSU Plan nor and a Savings-Related Share Option Plan has a service contract but all have letters the MedImmune RSU Plan are used to make in the UK, both of which are HM Revenue & of appointment.
The effective dates of restricted stock unit awards to Executive Customs approved plans.
Certain Executive appointment for each of the Non-Executive Directors or other SET members, nor may they Directors and other SET members are eligible Directors are set out in the table opposite.
operate in respect of newly issued Shares or to participate in these plans, more detailed In accordance with the Companys Articles, Ordinary Shares transferred from treasury.
descriptions of which can be found in Note following their appointment, Directors 24 to the Financial Statements.
must retire at each AGM and may present Global Restricted Stock Plan themselves for election or re-election.
It is the intention of the Committee that during Service contracts None of the Non-Executive Directors has 2010 two currently operated restricted stock Details of the service contracts for each of any provision in their letter of appointment plans the RSU Plan and the MedImmune the Executive Directors, including their notice giving them a right to compensation payable RSU Plan applicable to below SET-level periods, are set out below.
Either the upon early termination of their appointment.
They will be Company or the Executive Director may They are not eligible for performance-related replaced by a single new Global Restricted terminate the service contract on 12 months bonuses or the grant of share options.
Stock Plan GRSP again operated only for notice.
It is the Boards intention that, in the No pension contributions are made on their below SET-level employees and on broadly event of early termination of an Executive behalf.
None of the Non-Executive Directors similar terms to the existing plans for the Directors employment, any compensation has participated or will participate in any purposes of simplifying the administration payable under his her service contract decision made by the Board in relation and operation of restricted stock awards.
should not exceed the salary and benefits to the determination of their own fees.
Awards granted under the GRSP will not that would have been received had the The Chairmans annual fee is 325,000, involve the issue and allotment of new contractual notice period been worked and and the annual fees applicable to other Ordinary Shares but rather rely on the this may be further reduced in line with the Non-Executive Directors are set out opposite.
market purchase of Ordinary Shares or ADSs Executive Directors duty to mitigate losses.
In addition to the mandatory shareholding that have already been issued.
There is no None of the Executive Directors has any requirement imposed on all Directors intention to increase the overall quantum of provision in their service contracts giving under the Articles described in the awards applicable to target employees them a right to liquidated damages or an Directors shareholding section on page 99, through the introduction of the GRSP.
automatic entitlement to bonus for the in December 2008 the Board agreed that duration of their notice period.
Compensation each Non-Executive Director should also Restricted Share Plan for any bonus entitlement will be assessed be encouraged to build up, over time, The AstraZeneca Restricted Share Plan RSP initially as on target but subject to adjustment a shareholding in the Company with a value was introduced in 2008 and provides for the by the Committee to take account of the approximately equivalent to the basic annual grant of restricted share awards RS Awards particular circumstances of the termination.
fee for a Non-Executive Director 60,000 to key employees, excluding Executive or, in the case of the Chairman, approximately Directors.
RS Awards are made on an ad hoc Policy on external appointments and equivalent to his annual fee 325,000. basis with variable vesting dates and may not retention of fees operate in respect of newly issued Shares or Audit Subject to the specific approval of the Board Ordinary Shares transferred from treasury.
in each case, Executive Directors and other The Directors emoluments in 2009 disclosed The RSP has been used twice in 2009 to SET members may accept external in the Directors emoluments in 2009 section make RS Awards to 12 employees.
The appointments as non-executive directors of from page 111 and the details of the Committee has responsibility for agreeing Directors interests in Ordinary Shares other companies and retain any related fees any RS Awards under the RSP and for paid to them, provided always that such disclosed in the Directors interests in shares setting the policy for the way in which the external appointments are not considered by section on page 115, have been audited RSP should operate.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Directors Remuneration Report 111 Corporate Governance Details of Executive Directors service contracts at 31 December 2009 Date of Unexpired term at Notice 1 Executive Director service contract 31 December 2009 period David Brennan 1 January 2006 12 months 12 months Simon Lowth 5 November 2007 12 months 12 months 1 Neither of the Executive Directors has any provision in their service contracts giving them a right to liquidated damages or an automatic entitlement to a bonus for the duration of their notice period.
Non-Executive Directors terms and conditions Effective date of 1, 2 Non-Executive Director appointment Bo Angelin 24 July 2007 John Buchanan 25 April 2002 Jean-Philippe Courtois 18 February 2008 Jane Henney 24 September 2001 Michele Hooper 1 July 2003 Rudy Markham 12 September 2008 Dame Nancy Rothwell 27 April 2006 Louis Schweitzer 11 March 2004 John Varley 26 July 2006 Marcus Wallenberg 6 April 1999 1 None of the letters of appointment applicable to Non-Executive Directors confers upon them any right to compensation payable on early termination of their appointment.
2 Pursuant to the Articles, the continued appointment of each Non-Executive Director is subject to their election or re-election at each AGM.
Non-Executive Directors fees Basic Fee 60,000 Senior independent Non-Executive Director an additional 25,000 Membership of the Audit Committee or the Remuneration Committee 15,000 Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Remuneration Committee an additional 20,000 Membership of the Science Committee 10,000 Chairman of the Science Committee an additional 7,000 Directors emoluments in 2009 The aggregate remuneration, excluding pension contributions and the value of shares under option and shares subject to Share Awards, paid to or accrued for all Directors for services in all capacities during the year ended 31 December 2009 was 6.2 million $9.6 million.
The remuneration of individual Directors is set out below in pounds sterling and US dollars.
All salaries, fees, bonuses and other benefits for Directors are established in pounds sterling.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 112 Directors Report | Directors Remuneration Report Directors remuneration pounds sterling Salary Bonus Bonus Taxable Other payments Total Total Total 1 and fees Cash Shares benefits and allowances 2009 2008 2007 Name 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Louis Schweitzer 325 325 303 260 3 2 David Brennan 973 1,167 584 26 436 3,186 2,506 2,150 4 8 Simon Lowth 550 550 275 8 43 1,426 1,304 172 Bo Angelin 70 70 63 21 John Buchanan 110 110 96 69 Jean-Philippe Courtois 75 75 58 Jane Henney 85 85 76 57 Michele Hooper 100 100 90 64 Rudy Markham 75 75 23 Nancy Rothwell 92 92 80 54 John Varley 95 95 83 56 Marcus Wallenberg 60 60 53 40 Former Directors 6 5 8 John Patterson 135 187 3 121 446 1,081 982 7 Hkan Mogren 33 33 100 100 Others 463 Total 2,778 1,904 859 37 600 6,178 5,916 4,488 Directors remuneration US dollars Salary Bonus Bonus Taxable Other payments Total Total Total 1 and fees Cash Shares benefits and allowances 2009 2008 2007 Name $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Louis Schweitzer 504 504 567 520 3 2 David Brennan 1,508 1,808 905 40 676 4,937 4,692 4,300 4 8 Simon Lowth 852 852 426 12 67 2,209 2,442 345 Bo Angelin 108 108 118 42 John Buchanan 170 170 180 138 Jean-Philippe Courtois 116 116 109 Jane Henney 132 132 142 114 Michele Hooper 155 155 169 128 Rudy Markham 116 116 43 Nancy Rothwell 143 143 150 108 John Varley 147 147 155 113 Marcus Wallenberg 93 93 99 80 Former Directors 6 5 8 John Patterson 209 290 5 188 692 2,024 1,965 7 Hkan Mogren 51 51 187 200 Others 929 Total 4,304 2,950 1,331 57 931 9,573 11,077 8,982 1 These figures represent that portion of the 2009 bonuses required to be deferred into Shares to be held for a three-year period, as explained in the Bonus share deferral requirements section on page 107.
2 Relates to relocation allowances, a car allowance and cash payments in respect of dividends accrued on vesting of LTI share plan awards.
3 This figure includes a sum of $83,000 54,000 in respect of member contributions to the AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan which were paid into the plan by means of a salary sacrifice see the Defined contribution arrangements section on page 113 for further details.
4 Relates to remaining cash following selection of benefits within AstraZenecas UK flexible benefits programme.
5 Relates to cash payments in respect of dividends accrued on vesting of LTI share plan awards and remaining cash following selection of benefits within AstraZenecas UK flexible benefits programme.
6 Part-year only as ceased to be a Director on 31 March 2009.
7 Part-year only as ceased to be a Director on 30 April 2009.
8 Does not include a cash allowance received in lieu of pension see the Defined contribution arrangements section on page 113 for further details.
For John Patterson, member contributions to the AstraZeneca Pension Fund of only a minimal amount for 2009 were paid through salary sacrifice, and as such no employee contributions are shown above or included within emoluments.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Directors Remuneration Report 113 Corporate Governance In the tables on this page and on the previous page, salaries have been converted between pounds sterling and US dollars at the average exchange rate for the year in question.
These rates were: GBP USD 2009 0.645 2008 0.534 2007 0.500 Executive Directors were also granted Share Awards and Option Awards.
Details of share options granted to, and exercised by, Directors and the aggregate of gains realised on the exercise of options, and of awards under the LTI plans, in the year are given in the Share options section on page 118 and in the Gains by Directors on exercise of share options section on page 119.
No Director has a family relationship with any other Director.
Pensions Defined benefit arrangements Pensions are payable to Directors in pounds sterling, with the exception of David Brennans, whose pension is payable in US dollars.
For ease of understanding, the table below has been presented in both pounds sterling and US dollars using the exchange rates for 2009 set out above.
Except where otherwise stated, figures for John Patterson a former Executive Director reflect the period to 31 March 2009 when he retired as a Director.
David John David John Brennan Patterson Brennan Patterson 000 000 $000 $000 Defined benefit arrangements 1.
Increase in accrued pension during year as a result of inflation 3.
Adjustment to accrued pension as a result of salary increase relative to inflation 77 119 4.
Increase in accrued pension as a result of additional service 16 25 5.
Change in transfer value during the period less employee contributions 1,600 836 2,481 1,296 4 2 4 2 10.
Pensionable service years at 31 December 2009 34 33 12 34 33 12 1 The transfer value of John Pattersons accrued pension is calculated as at 6 April 2009, the date on which he retired from the AstraZeneca Pension Fund.
John Patterson opted to take a commutation lump sum on 6 April 2009 in lieu of part of his pension entitlement.
This lump sum was calculated and granted in accordance with the rules of the plan and amounted to 785,000 $1,218,000.
This reduced his pension entitlement after commutation to 303,000 per annum $470,000.
For John Patterson, transfer values are calculated on the market related basis used by the AstraZeneca Pension Fund, in accordance with current UK legislation.
For David Brennan, transfer values are calculated to be consistent with the value of the lump sum distribution equivalent to his deferred accrued pension annuity.
The minimum permissible value of such a lump sum distribution was modified in 2008.
Defined contribution arrangements In addition to the defined benefit arrangements set out in the Defined benefit arrangements section above, David Brennan participates in a 401 k plan.
He also participates in AstraZenecas Executive Deferred Compensation Plan EDCP which is operated as a supplemental non-qualified plan in respect of US employees should annual contributions exceed the limit applicable to contributions under the qualified 401 k plan.
Total employer matching contributions of $98,000 64,000 were made to his 401 k plan and EDCP during 2009 2008: $14,000 7,000.
David Brennan also made member contributions of $83,000 54,000 by way of salary sacrifice to the EDCP 2008: $nil.
Additionally, in January 2009, David Brennan, along with other eligible participants in the EDCP, received an automatic one-off excess match employer contribution in respect of his eligible earnings for 2008 under the EDCP.
This amounted to $110,000 70,000 relating to the 2008 plan year, $77,000 41,000 of which was disclosed in the 2008 Directors Remuneration Report.
In addition to the defined benefit arrangements as described in the Defined benefit arrangements section above, John Patterson chose to receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension, which during 2009 amounted to 42,000 $65,000 2008: 84,000 $157,000.
As described in the UK Executive Directors pension arrangements section on page 106, Simon Lowth chose to receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension, which during 2009 amounted to 132,000 $205,000 2008: 132,000 $247,000.
Transactions with Directors There were no material recorded transactions between the Company and the Directors during 2009 or 2008.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 114 Directors Report | Directors Remuneration Report Total shareholder return TSR over a five-year period The Regulations require the inclusion of a graph showing total shareholder return 160 TSR over a five-year period in respect of a holding of the Companys shares, plotted 140 against TSR in respect of a hypothetical holding of shares of a similar kind and number by reference to which a broad equity 120 market index is calculated.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 100 Index and 100 consequently, for the purposes of this graph, which is set out opposite, we have selected the FTSE 100 Index as the appropriate 80 index.
This graph is re-based to 100 at the Jan 05 Jan 06 Jan 07 Jan 08 Jan 09 Jan 10 start of the rolling five-year period.
We have AstraZeneca Pharma Peers Average FTSE 100 also included a Pharma Peers Average excluding Schering-Plough Corporation and TSR AstraZeneca compared with peer group 1 Jan 2007 to 31 Dec 2009 Wyeth Inc., which reflects the TSR of the for the 2007 award % same comparator group used for the PSP graphs opposite.
20 The PSP requires that the TSR in respect of 10 a holding of the Companys shares over the 5th relevant performance period be compared 0 with the TSR of a peer group of pharmaceutical companies as described in the Performance -10 targets section on page 108.
The graphs opposite show how the Companys TSR -20 performance has compared with the TSR for the relevant companies in the comparator -30 group from the first day in the relevant ABT SP BMS GSK AZ J&J MRK WYE SA NOV RCH PFI LLY three-year performance period in respect of each Share Award to 31 December 2009 and how the Company ranks against those TSR AstraZeneca compared with peer group 1 Jan 2008 to 31 Dec 2009 other companies on this basis.
for the 2008 award % 40 To alleviate any short-term volatility, the return 1st index is averaged in the TSR calculations for each company over the three months prior to 20 the start of the relevant performance period as stipulated in the PSP and, for the purposes 0 of the graphs opposite, over the last three months of 2009.
-20 -40 AZ GSK ABT J&J NOV BMS SA RCH PFI LLY MRK TSR AstraZeneca compared with peer group 1 Jan 2009 to 31 Dec 2009 for the 2009 award % 40 30 20 4th 10 0 MRK BMS SA AZ GSK PFI J&J LLY RCH NOV ABT AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Directors Remuneration Report 115 Corporate Governance Directors interests in shares Beneficial interests The table below shows any change in the interests of the Directors including the interests of their Connected Persons, as such term is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 in Ordinary Shares from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2009 or on the date of resignation of such Director if earlier.
All such interests were beneficial except as otherwise stated.
However, interests in Ordinary Shares or ADSs that are the subject of Share Awards under the PSP and or the AstraZeneca Deferred Bonus Plan discussed elsewhere, are not included in the table below but are shown in the Performance Share Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan tables on pages 116 and 117, respectively.
None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any of the Companys subsidiaries.
Between 31 December 2009 and 28 January 2010, there was no change in the interests in Ordinary Shares shown in the table below.
Beneficial interest in Ordinary Shares at Change to Beneficial interest in Ordinary Shares at Name 1 January 2009 or if later appointment date beneficial interest 31 December 2009 or if earlier resignation date Louis Schweitzer 4,000 1,356 5,356 1 Hkan Mogren 62,164 62,164 2 3 David Brennan 112,848 15,527 128,375 Simon Lowth 850 850 4 John Patterson 8,640 20,877 29,517 Bo Angelin 500 287 787 John Buchanan 2,500 2,500 Jean-Philippe Courtois 500 2,135 2,635 Jane Henney 500 287 787 Michele Hooper 500 1,200 1,700 Rudy Markham 1,137 283 1,420 Nancy Rothwell 500 287 787 John Varley 500 500 Marcus Wallenberg 67,264 67,264 1 Part-year only as ceased to be a Director on 30 April 2009.
2 This figure represents the difference between the net number of ADSs acquired by David Brennan from the vestings of his 2006 Share Awards under the PSP and the AstraZeneca Deferred Bonus Plan and the net reduction in his notional beneficial interest in ADSs held within the unitised stock plans see separate tables and footnotes below.
3 The total number of Ordinary Shares and ADSs in which David Brennan has an interest including potential interests in unreleased shares held in Company plans as detailed in the tables below has increased in 2009 by 67,968 to 576,790 as at 31 December 2009.
4 Part-year only as ceased to be a Director on 31 March 2009.
Unitised stock plans David Brennan, in common with other participating executives in the US, has interests which were awarded to him prior to him becoming CEO in the following plans: the AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan, the AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and the AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan.
These are unitised stock plans into which the value of certain previous share incentive awards has been deferred and are not incentive awards in their own right.
Participants hold units in each plan, which represents a long-term equity interest in the Company.
A unit comprises part cash and part ADSs.
The overall unit value can be determined daily by taking the market value of the underlying ADSs and adding the cash position.
The ADSs held within these units carry both voting and dividend rights.
David Brennan is deemed to have a notional beneficial interest in these ADSs, calculated by reference to the fund value and the closing price of ADSs.
Therefore, the number of ADSs in which a notional beneficial interest arises can vary daily as a consequence of stock price movements.
Unitised stock plan ADSs held at 1 January 2009 Net ADSs acquired disposed during 2009 ADSs held at 31 December 2009 1 AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan 40,940 5,034 35,906 1 AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan 32,003 32,003 AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan 7,700 403 8,103 1 These figures relate to scheduled distributions in February 2009.
No Director or senior executive beneficially owns, or has options over, 1% or more of the issued share capital of the Company, nor do they have different voting rights to other shareholders.
2 Share Awards granted in 2006 vested in 2009 at 89% based on the outcome of the performance conditions and targets which are set out in the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan section from page 108.
3 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, David Brennan became beneficially interested in a net number of 38,389 Ordinary Shares.
4 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, David Brennan became beneficially interested in a net number of 10,025 Ordinary Shares.
5 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, John Patterson became beneficially interested in a net number of 16,970 Ordinary Shares.
6 In accordance with the PSP rules.
7 The remaining 24,602 Shares of the 2007 Share Award and 19,338 Shares of the 2008 Share Award will vest on the relevant scheduled vesting date subject to the achievement of the performance conditions measured over the whole of the relevant performance period as set out in the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan Performance conditions section on page 108.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Directors Remuneration Report 117 Corporate Governance Deferred bonus plan As described in the Bonus share deferral requirements section on page 107, there is a requirement for Executive Directors and SET members to defer a certain proportion of any short-term bonus payments into Ordinary Shares or ADSs.
The proportion of bonus currently deferred into Ordinary Shares or ADSs is one-third of the pre-tax bonus for Executive Directors and one-sixth for all other SET members.
2 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, David Brennan became beneficially interested in a net number of 3,747 Ordinary Shares.
3 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, John Patterson became beneficially interested in a net number of 3,907 Ordinary Shares.
4 In accordance with the plan rules on leavers, John Pattersons 2007, 2008 and 2009 awards will vest on the relevant scheduled vesting date.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 118 Directors Report | Directors Remuneration Report Share options The interests of Directors, and of former Directors who served during 2009, in options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares, granted under the SOP, the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan and the Zeneca Plan, are included in the following table.
No options were exercised during 2009.
All grants in 2009 were made under the SOP, unless otherwise indicated.
Further information on the performance conditions applicable to SOP is set out in the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan Performance conditions section on page 109.
As a Save-As-You-Earn scheme, the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan is not subject to any performance conditions.
Awards granted under the Zeneca Plan are no longer subject to any performance conditions.
2 Exercise prices are weighted averages.
3 First and last exercise dates of groups of options, within which period there are shorter exercise periods.
5 Hkan Mogren ceased to be a Director on 30 April 2009.
6 John Patterson ceased to be a Director on 31 March 2009.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Directors Remuneration Report 119 Corporate Governance Gains by Directors on exercise of share options The aggregate amount of gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options during the year and the two previous years is set out below.
Gains made by Directors Gains made by the on the exercise of share options highest paid Director Year $ $ 2009 2008 1,764.96 2007 783,858.08 During 2009, the market price of Ordinary Shares or ADSs was as follows: Ordinary Share ADS market price Range of the Ordinary Share ADS Stock Exchange as at 31 December 2009 market price during 2009 London 2910.5p 2147p to 2947p Stockholm 307.00 SEK 261.50 SEK to 356.00 SEK New York $46.94 $30.24 to $47.54 On behalf of the Board A C N Kemp Company Secretary 28 January 2010 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
