direCtors remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Executive directors do not participate in a company pension arrangement in Regulation II and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and respect of which the Company makes a financial contribution, and do not have Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations and of the the use of a company car or other similar benefits often available to executive Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008 the Combined Code.
Towers Perrin has advised the Committee that in aggregate the total remuneration of Dave Forsey and Bob Mellors is well below median.
unaudited information The Committee intends to establish and thereafter maintain contact with the remuneration Committee major shareholders and representative groups where appropriate concerning During the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2009 the Year, the members of the remuneration matters.
Remuneration Committee the Committee, were: The expected value of a four times salary award under the Performance Dave Singleton Chairman Share Plan is approximately 170% of salary.
Accordingly, if the Companys Simon Bentley performance meets target levels, disregarding the proposed Bonus Share Malcolm Dalgleish Scheme, performance related pay in 2009-10 is likely to account for approximately 70% of Dave Forsey and Bob Mellors total remuneration, and Dave Singleton and Malcolm Dalgleish are independent non-executive directors.
at upper quartile performance, performance related pay would account for Simon Bentley was an independent non-executive director on his appointment approximately 85% of total remuneration, depending in each case on share as Acting Chairman.
price improvement during the relevant performance period.
The expected value of the Bonus Share Scheme, if approved, is approximately 100% of salary The main responsibilities of the Committee are summarised in the Corporate over four years.
If target level performance under that and other schemes is Governance Report on page 20. reached in 2009-10 then performance related pay in that year is likely to account for approximately 66% of Dave Forsey and Bob Mellors total remuneration and at upper quartile performance related pay would account for 81% of total advisers remuneration depending upon share price performance.
The Committee has appointed Towers Perrin to provide it with independent advice in determining the appropriate remuneration, including bonus schemes, The Committee is at all times mindful of the Companys social, ethical and and other terms and conditions of employment of directors, and to assist it in environmental responsibilities, and is satisfied that current remuneration the review of remuneration policies and practices throughout the Group.
arrangements do not inadvertently encourage irresponsible behaviour.
Towers Perrin has, with the consent of the Committee, assisted the Company in the past by providing market data and advice in connection with the remuneration poliCies and key elements of remuneration remuneration of senior managers.
The Committee is conscious of the need to The Committee has reviewed the salaries, other remuneration and other ensure that no conflict of interest arises as a result of Towers Perrin advising employment conditions of senior and middle managers throughout the Group, both it and the Company, but believes that the benefits of consistent advice and has taken them into account in considering directors salaries, bonus outweighs the possible problems that could arise from these arrangements.
awards and the creation of new bonus schemes in order to create a sense of common purpose and sharing of success.
The Performance Share Plan has A summary of the terms of reference of Towers Perrin in their role as been extended to certain senior managers and the proposed Bonus Share independent advisors to the Committee are set out on the Companys website Scheme will apply to all UK permanent employees of the Group in the UK and are available upon request from the Company Secretary.
Retail, Brands and Head Office on the same basis, including applying the same percentage of salary, irrespective of seniority.
Dave Forsey, the Chief Executive, Bob Mellors, the Group Finance Director, and Mike Ashley, the Executive Deputy Chairman have also advised or materially Executive directors remuneration and the remuneration of other key senior assisted the Committee when requested.
management during the Year comprised: Basic Salary remuneration poliCy Annual Bonus Scheme The Committee has endorsed the provisions of Section 1B of the Combined Performance Share Plan Code, and has had those provisions in mind when determining remuneration Pension policies for the past, current and future years.
Policies and practice in respect of remuneration inevitably evolve over time and, while it is currently believed Subject to approval of the Bonus Share Scheme at the Annual General Meeting, that the policies described in this report will apply in future years, they will be it is intended that in 2009-10 executive directors remuneration will comprise subject to regular review.
the Bonus Share Scheme and the elements listed above other than the Annual Bonus Scheme.
The Group operates in a highly competitive retail environment, and the Committee seeks to ensure that the level and form of remuneration is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate directors and senior managers of the BasiC salary quality and talent required to run the Group successfully.
In order to maintain Basic salaries are reviewed annually, but the first review post the Admission of the Groups historic focus on growth, the Committee has adopted a strongly the Company to the official list and to trading on the London Stock Exchange performance based remuneration policy for executive directors, under which on 2 March 2007 Admission did not take place until April 2008.
There was no a large proportion of their remuneration will be dependent upon the Groups increase in executive directors salaries on that review and in April 2009 the performance, and paid in shares.
Committee decided again not to alter executive directors salaries.
Executive directors salaries have now been at the same level since 2002.
Basic salaries for executive directors other than Mike Ashley have been set at a level well below the median level for a business of the size and complexity of the Group.
The maximum payment under the annual bonus plan during the annual Bonus sCheme Year was 100% of salary, and the Performance Share Plan permits annual The Annual Bonus Scheme rewards executive directors for achieving grants of up to four times salary.
The maximum payment under the proposed challenging business performance targets, chosen at the beginning of the Bonus Share Scheme, described below, is shares having a market value of period for their relevance in driving the short term performance of the Group approximately 100% of salary, deferred for 2 years.
If the establishment of the towards the achievement of strategic goals.
In the Year the maximum bonus Bonus Share Scheme is approved then it will replace the Annual Bonus Scheme payable to Dave Forsey and Bob Mellors was 100% of salary, and one half of the during the term of the Bonus Share Scheme.
bonus was to be paid if both target sales and target EBITDA were achieved, and the remainder of the bonus would be paid if target sales are achieved and if a If the Committee were to change its policy on basic salaries, then it would stretch target EBITDA is achieved, with no intermediate payments.
Performance revisit the salary multiple for grants under the Performance Share Plan, and the was such that no bonus was paid in respect of the Year.
Committees remuneration policy set out above will not necessarily apply to any new appointment to the Board.
The Committee has determined that, if the proposed Bonus Share Scheme is approved at the Companys Annual General Meeting in September 2009 and Mike Ashley has agreed that he will not receive a salary for his role as Executive implemented with effect from the beginning of the current financial year, then Deputy Chairman, nor does he participate in the Performance Share Plan, and no Annual Bonus Scheme will be operated for executive directors while the he will not participate in the Bonus Share Scheme if approved.
Bonus Share Scheme is being operated.
Mike Ashley did not participate in the Annual Bonus Scheme for the Year, and will not participate in the proposed Bonus Share Scheme.
22 Directors Remuneration Report the performanCe share plan The Performance Share Plan was adopted on 11 February 2007, and provides TSR means, in relation to a share in the Company or an ordinary share in a a direct link between executive directors remuneration and the return to company in the comparator group in a performance period, the aggregate of shareholders.
the increase above or decrease below the average market value of such a share at the beginning of the relevant performance period and the aggregate value of The maximum number of shares that an executive director may acquire dividends paid in that performance period excluding any tax credit, where each pursuant to share awards granted to him in any financial year may not have an such dividend is deemed to have been reinvested in the shares of each relevant aggregate market value, as measured at the date of grant, exceeding 400% of company from the date of payment of the dividend to the last day of the his annual basic salary.
Market value for this purpose is based on the closing performance period.
middle market quotation for a share as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the dealing day immediately preceding the date of The initial comparator group of companies comprised the following companies: grant.
Marks & Spencer plc On 5 April 2007, during the 42-day period following Admission, share awards Kingfisher plc were granted to each of Dave Forsey and Bob Mellors relating to 400% of their Next Group plc basic salary.
No awards were made during the 2007-08 financial year as the Home Retail Group plc performance period for any awards that would have been made during that year DSG International plc would have ended at the same time as the awards made on 5 April 2007.
Awards The Carphone Warehouse Group plc under the Plan relating to 400% of basic salary were made to Dave Forsey and Signet Group plc Bob Mellors on 16 July 2008.
Kesa Electrical plc Debenhams plc Share awards under the Performance Share Plan are subject to performance N Brown Group plc conditions imposed by the Committee at the time of grant.
The extent to which Galiform plc the performance conditions are satisfied will determine how many if any of the Carpetright plc shares each executive director is entitled to receive.
Performance conditions Halfords Group plc are not capable of being retested, so that any proportion of a share award which W H Smith plc does not vest on the normal vesting date will lapse.
JJB Sports plc HMV Group plc The Committee determined in respect of the first grants made under the plan JD Sports Fashion Plc that the vesting of 50% of the awards would be subject to a performance target Blacks Leisure Group plc based on the earnings per share EPS growth of the Company over the Mothercare plc designated performance period.
The remaining 50% of the awards are subject to a performance target based on the Companys total shareholder return Mothercare plc has replaced Umbro plc in the comparator group following its TSR over the same performance period when compared against a group of acquisition by Nike and subsequent delisting.
The Committee will keep the comparator companies.
The Committee applied the same targets for the grants comparator group under review and will, if and when it considers appropriate, made in 2008. include additional companies to replace any of the existing comparator group that are no longer appropriate or listed.
The performance period for grants under the Performance Share Plan will usually be the three consecutive financial years commencing with the financial TSR was calculated for the first grants made in the 42 days following Admission year in which the option or award is granted, but for the initial awards following using average market value of shares in each company in the comparator group Admission, the performance period runs from the date of grant to 25 April 2010 over the 20 dealing days immediately following Admission.
For subsequent the end of the 2009-10 financial year.
grants TSR is calculated using the average value of shares of companies in the comparator group on the last day of the financial year.
EPS was chosen as a performance measure because it is an absolute measure of real Group performance.
The percentage of the shares comprised in the TSR tranche that vest will be determined by reference to the Companys TSR ranking within the comparator The Committee chose TSR as a performance measure because it compares group at the end of the performance period as follows: the actual returns to shareholders with the actual returns to shareholders in a comparator group of companies, thus providing a relative measure of performance.
The Committee believes that the combination of absolute and TSR Ranking Percentage of shares in TSR tranche that vest relative measure is the best way to align the interest of the director with the Upper quartile 100 actual return to shareholders, and that the targets reflect the history of growth in the Companys businesses and are challenging but achievable.
Median 25 Below median 0 EPS growth over the first performance period will be calculated by reference to the EPS as derived from the pro forma accounts prepared for the 26 week period to 29 October 2006, EPS growth for subsequent performance periods will Shares comprised in the TSR tranche will vest on a straight-line basis for be calculated by reference to EPS stated in the appropriate published accounts.
performance between median and upper quartile.
For the purpose of the Performance Share Plan, EPS means the diluted The Committee may amend the performance conditions if an event occurs that earnings per ordinary share of the Company calculated in accordance with IAS causes it reasonably to consider that the original performance conditions are no 33 Earnings Per Share or any modification or replacement to that standard with longer, without alteration, a fair measure of performance, provided that the which the Company is obliged to comply provided that the Committee has the amended conditions are at least as challenging as the original performance power after consultation with the auditors to adjust the EPS figure to arrive at conditions.
Any such amendment will be disclosed in the directors a figure which reflects underlying business performance of the Group and also remuneration report following the amendment.
to take such steps as necessary to ensure that relevant accounting standards are applied on a consistent basis.
During the Year the Committee reviewed the performance conditions and business performance to date against those conditions, and determined that, The number of shares that will vest under the EPS tranche of each award will be for the time being, they were satisfied that the conditions remained appropriate.
determined as follows: The Committee may, however, set different performance conditions for future awards.
EPS Growth Percentage of shares in EPS tranche that vest Subject to satisfaction of applicable performance conditions, awards will vest at the end of the performance period and vested share awards will be released to Below 19% per annum 0 participants automatically as soon as practicable after the date the shares vest.
19% per annum Threshold 25 Share awards may normally only vest if the executive director remains in 24% per annum Target 50 employment with the Group.
If a participant leaves employment before the 29% per annum Stretch 100 vesting date, the share awards will normally lapse.
However, if the reason for leaving is injury, disability, ill-health, the sale of the business or company in which the executive director is employed, or any other reason, at the Shares comprised in the EPS tranche will vest on a straight-line basis for Committees discretion, a participants awards will not lapse and will vest on the performance between Threshold and Target and between Target and Stretch.
original vesting date to the extent the performance conditions have been met.
Sports Direct International PLC Annual Report 2009 23 direCtors remuneration report Continued pension The number of shares which are released or capable of exercise will be proExecutive directors are entitled to participate in a stakeholder pension scheme rated to reflect the proportion of the performance period the participant was to which the Company makes no contribution.
actually employed unless the Committee determines otherwise.
In the event of a participants death, a share award may be released to or exercised by their share ownership poliCy personal representatives.
The Committee believes it to be important that executive directors have a significant holding in the capital of the Company.
During the year Simon Bentley In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement other than a scheme purchased 250,000 shares, Malcolm Dalgleish purchased 80,694 shares, and to create a new holding company for the Company having substantially the Dave Singleton increased his shareholding to 153,621 shares.
same shareholders as the Company or voluntary winding-up of the Company, share awards will vest following such an event to the extent the performance conditions have been met but on a time pro-rated basis.
Share awards may also ContraCts of serviCe by agreement, be exchanged for equivalent share awards or options over shares On 11 February 2007, each executive director entered into a new service in the acquiring company.
The agreements became effective on Admission.
These contracts reflect the Committees policy on the duration of Executive The Committee has determined that, upon the vesting of any award, a Directors service contracts and on notice periods and termination payments.
participant will receive additional shares representing the gross value of dividends as if they had been paid on those shares and reinvested during the Each executive directors employment is terminable by either party on 12 performance period.
The Company may elect to terminate the employment of Dave Forsey and or Bob Mellors by making a payment in lieu of notice equal to The Company reviews awards under the Performance Share Plan in terms the basic salary that the director would have received during the notice period of their effect on dilution limits, and seeks to comply with the dilution limits or, if notice has already been given, during the remainder thereof.
recommended by the Association of British Insurers for such plans.
At the end of the Year the Company was within those limits.
The Company may elect to pay any payment in lieu of notice by monthly instalments during the outstanding notice periods, and if the director obtains The Company has established a discretionary trust to acquire and hold, or to alternative employment or provides services pursuant to a consultancy enter into agreements to procure the delivery of shares required to satisfy share agreement while such payments are being made the director being obliged awards granted under the Performance Share Plan.
to use his best efforts to obtain such employment, each instalment falling due after the commencement of such employment or provision of services is reduced by one twelfth of the annual remuneration or fees received by the the proposed Bonus share sCheme director in respect of that alternative employment or consultancy.
The scheme is intended to motivate and help improve the retention of employees, to encourage employee participation in the shares of the Company, Any entitlement to benefits under any share related incentive scheme are to align the interests of employees and shareholders, and to drive Underlying determined in accordance with the rules of that scheme.
Each executive directors service contract automatically terminates on the date All permanent UK employees in UK Retail, Brands and Head Office with not less that the director reaches such age as is determined by the Board from time to than one years service at the beginning 2009-10 will participate, irrespective time as the retirement age for executive directors.
The scheme will replace, where relevant, existing annual bonus schemes, but not workplace based schemes.
More details of the scheme are The non-executive directors have each entered into a letter of appointment given in the notice calling the 2009 Annual General Meeting of the Company.
with the Company, which became effective in the case of Simon Bentley, on Admission, and in the case of Malcolm Dalgleish and Dave Singleton on The bonus is in two stages.
The first bonus is 25% of base pay in shares at a execution.
Details of the letters of appointment are set out below: notional share price of 1.00 per share.
The bonus target is Underlying EBITDA of 155m in 2009-10.
Annual fee Date of letter of The first bonus will vest two years after the EBITDA target of 155m is reached, Position 000 appointment and is subject to continuous employment until then.
1 Simon Bentley Acting Chairman 144 11 02 2007 The second bonus is 75% of base pay in shares at a notional share price of 1.25 Malcolm Dalgleish Non-Executive Director 50 25 10 2007 per share.
The second stage of the bonus is conditional upon the first bonus 2 Dave Singleton Non-Executive Director 50 25 10 2007 target being met in 2009-10, and the second bonus targets are: Underlying EBITDA of 195m in 2010-2011, and 1 Simon Bentley received an annual fee of 40,000 per annum prior to appointment as Acting Chairman.
He currently receives an annual fee of 144,000 as Acting Chairman Underlying EBITDA Net Debt ratio of 2 or less at the end of 2010-11 2 Dave Singleton received an additional 10,000 in respect of additional work and research The second bonus will vest, subject to continuous employment until then, 2 Non-executive directors do not and are not entitled to participate in any bonus years after the second bonus target is met.
The performance conditions have to be satisfied after taking account of scheme Each non executive directors appointment other than the Chairman is for an costs.
They are stretch targets, requiring an increase in Underlying EBITDA initial period that expires on the date of the Companys first Annual General before scheme costs of approximately 26m 19.0% and 66m 48.2% Meeting after appointment.
The appointment of each of Malcolm Dalgleish respectively.
and Dave Singleton was renewed at the AGM on 10 September 2008 and will continue for a term of three years from then and then terminate unless renewed The Committee which will administer the scheme will adjust reported prior to the expiry of that term.
underlying Group EBITDA each year during which the scheme is running for the purpose of the scheme to ensure consistency in the calculation of underlying Notwithstanding renewal for a three year term, the appointment of each of EBITDA and to ensure that underlying EBITDA is a fair comparison year by Simon Bentley and Malcolm Dalgleish and Dave Singleton and the appointment year, for example, by eliminating the impact of acquisitions where the cost of of Simon Bentley may be terminated at any time by either party on one months acquisitions is not reflected in underlying EBITDA.
Underlying EBITDA is as defined on page 9 and is not at constant foreign Each of the appointments of the non-executive directors may also be terminated currency exchange rates.
in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, and immediately in certain prescribed circumstances including the bankruptcy of the nonThe Committee believes that the scheme will drive performance in the short executive director.
to medium term, encourage retention and align the interest of employees and shareholders.
The Committee chose underlying EBITDA as the performance In addition to the annual directors fees of 40,000 per annum referred to above, measure as it is the prime measure that the Company uses internally prior to his appointment as Acting Chairman Simon Bentley was entitled to a fee to measure performance and the Committee believes best reflects the of 10,000 per annum as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
performance of the business, and the Net Debt to underlying EBITDA ratio target to ensure that EBITDA was not enhanced by additional borrowing.
Non-executive directors are subject to confidentiality undertakings without limitation in time.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to receive any compensation on the termination of their appointment.
24 Directors Remuneration Report non-exeCutive direCtorships serviCe ContraCts The Board recognises that executive directors may be invited to become nonThe Executive Directors service contracts are summarised in the following table executive directors of other companies, and that the experience and knowledge gained as a result of such appointments are of benefit to the Company.
Accordingly, the Board has agreed that the executive directors may accept one Unexpired term such appointment, and retain any fees payable in respect thereof, subject to Name Contract date notice period Proper law there being no conflict of interest.
No executive director currently holds any Mike Ashley 11 02 2007 12 Months England & Wales such appointment.
Dave Forsey 11 02 2007 12 Months England & Wales Bob Mellors 11 02 2007 12 Months England & Wales performanCe Graph The following graph, required by the Regulations, shows the Companys total shareholder return since Admission against that of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts.
The Committee considered this an appropriate audited information index against which to compare the Companys performance as it is widely accepted as a national measure and includes the companies that investors are auditors report likely to consider alternative investments.
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the following section of this report, other than in respect of directors shareholding.
historical tsr performance Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding since flotation up to year end ftse mid 250 excluding investment trusts Comparison Based on spot values direCtors remuneration 2009 The following pages set out an analysis of directors emoluments and annual bonus, entitlements under the Performance Share Plan and shareholdings.
ftse 250 ex investment trusts sports direct direCtors emoluments 140 An analysis of directors emoluments relating to salary and directors fees, annual bonus and other benefits other than entitlements under the Performance Share Plan and in respect of pensions for the 52 weeks to 26 April 2009 the Year is set out below: 120 Salaries Other 000 and fees Bonus benefits Total 2009 Total 2008 100 Mike Ashley - - - - Simon Bentley 144 - - 144 128 Chris Bulmer - - 24 80 Malcolm Dalgleish 50 - - 50 26 Dave Forsey 150 - - 150 150 60 Bob Mellors 150 - - 150 150 David Richardson - - 12 Dave Singleton 60 - - 60 26 40 Total 554 554 516 The aggregate of directors emoluments in the Year was 554,000: 2007-08: 515,333.
20 BasiC salary The basic salaries of executive directors at the Year end and at 16 July 2009 the latest practicable date before the printing of this report were as shown below: 0 At 26 April 2009 at 16 July 2009 27-feb-07 29-apr-07 27-apr-08 26-apr-09 DATE At 26 April 2009 At 10 July 2009 Mike Ashley - - Dave Forsey 150,000 150,000 Bob Mellors 150,000 150,000 annual Bonus sCheme Performance against business targets during the Year was such that no annual bonus was earned by executive directors participating in the Annual Bonus Scheme.
Sports Direct International PLC Annual Report 2009 25 v a l u e o f h y p o t h e t i C a l 1 0 0 h o l d i n G direCtors remuneration report Continued performanCe share plan Share awards under the Performance Share Plan were made to certain of the executive directors as shown below: Maximum Shares Shares Maximum Market shares awarded vested shares Value per receivable during during receivable share on Earliest Date of at 27 April the the at 26 April date of date of award 2008 1 Year Year 2009 award vesting 2 Dave Forsey 5 04 2007 223,256 - - 223,256 268.75p 25 04 2010 16 07 2008 987,654 - 987,654 60.75p 25 04 2011 TOTAL 1,210,910 Bob Mellors 5 04 2007 223,256 - - 223,256 268.75p 25 04 2010 16 07 2008 987,654 - 987,654 60.75p 25 04 2011 TOTAL 1,210,910 1 The number of shares is the maximum number of shares that could be receivable by the director if the performance conditions, outlined on pages 23 and 24, are fully met.
2 The Earliest Date of Vesting is the end of the relevant performance period.
The outcome for that period and the number of awards that vest will not be known until July of the appropriate year.
No share awards were made in 2007 08 as awards under the Performance Share Plan were made in April 2007 during the 42 days following Admission and the performance period for those awards ends at the same time as the performance period for any awards that may have been made during that Year.
direCtors shareholdinGs The beneficial interests of the directors in office on 26 April 2009 and of their families in both cases at the beginning of the Year, or at the date of appointment if later, and at the end of the Year in the share capital of the Company are shown below: Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares 26 April 2009 27 April 2008 and 16 July 2009 Mike Ashley 410,400,000 410,400,000 Simon Bentley - 250,000 Malcolm Dalgleish 75,000 80,694 Dave Forsey 1,000,000 1,000,000 Bob Mellors 1,000,000 1,000,000 Dave Singleton 3,621 153,621 pension ContriButions The Company made no contributions to directors money purchase pension schemes during the year.
dave singleton Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee 16 July 2009 26 Directors Remuneration Report
