Scottish and Southern Energy 66 Annual Report 2009 Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce the Remuneration Report for the year 2008 09.
The report was changed last year to make it easier to understand, with a new layout, greater detail on the operation of the Committee and on the structure of the remuneration package.
These changes have been well received, and they have been further developed for the sections on Committee Business and Executive Directors Remuneration, with an initial report on total remuneration policy and an increased use of charts and diagrams to explain our policy.
The remuneration report is in three parts: k At a Glance This is an overview of total remuneration policy.
k Remuneration Explained Our approach to total remuneration, outlining the key elements of the policy.
k Remuneration in Detail These are the detailed disclosures required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations and which are audited.
Executive Directors remuneration is the subject of a great deal of scrutiny which has been intensified by the recent crisis in the financial markets, with even more attention paid to all aspects of reward.
The Committee acknowledges this scrutiny and the need for transparency surrounding the remuneration for Executive Directors.
As always, the key is to ensure that reward is linked with corporate performance and reflects the skills and contribution of individuals to the achievement of that performance.
In focusing on performance, the Committee is mindful of the need to avoid placing undue emphasis on the results from any one year, which may reflect unusual or specific factors.
It is sustained performance over the medium and long term that matters.
As you will have seen from the earlier part of the Annual Report, SSE has continued to deliver growth in profit before tax and the dividend.
The Executive Directors are a strong team, with a long-standing and well-regarded track record in the sector in which SSE operates, and they have again continued to perform well.
As one energy analyst put it in February 2009: SSE has a sector-leading management team that has consistently shown financial discipline.
The Remuneration Committee has been well briefed on recent remuneration developments and has considered carefully the relevant benchmark market data.
Taking these into account during the past year the Committee is satisfied that the current remuneration policy is sound and fit for purpose.
Therefore no changes have been made to the policy.
The Committee has reviewed its approach to remuneration against best practice for any indications of misguided incentives or unacceptable risk-taking and is satisfied that there are no environmental, social or governance risks raised as a result of the reward policy.
More fundamentally, SSEs strategy is one which is designed with risk management at its heart.
As part of the Board evaluation process, the effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee was reviewed, the results of which indicate that the Committee continues to operate effectively.
Susan Rice Chairman, Remuneration Committee 20 May 2009 Remuneration Committee Meetings Number of meetings Meetings attended Susan Rice Committee Chairman 3 3 Lord Smith of Kelvin 3 3 Richard Gillingwater 3 3 Nick Baldwin 3 3
