Remuneration policy The performance measures for 2009 10 are unchanged from The main objective of the policy is to attract, retain and motivate those the previous year.
One-third of the annual bonus is based upon Economic people of the highest calibre who have the skills needed to lead the Group Value Added EVA targets, and two-thirds is based on earnings per share to achieve its objectives year on year.
As previously stated, the Committee is satisfied that the EVA which is calculated as normalised operating profit after tax remuneration framework and policy are aligned to Group strategy and less the cost of all capital employed to produce those earnings captures do not encourage the Executives to take undue risks.
The remuneration the three basic generic strategies for creating value: policy and framework have been reviewed in the light of the current To increase economic return for capital employed: economic climate and by reference to remuneration guidelines published by investor bodies.
To grow by investing in new products whose return more than The principles of the policy are: compensates for the risk taken: and Providing a truly motivational incentive scheme which drives individuals To curtail investment in and divert capital from uneconomic activities.
to work to outperform against challenging short and long-term targets: The potential payment for both the EVA and EPS parts of the annual Establishing that variable pay provides the material element to bonus for 2009 10 will be as shown in the following table: Executives total reward: Performance vs target 97.5% 100 102.5% Ensuring that there is an appropriate and increasing balance between short-term and long-term targets, with a significant proportion of the % of salary for Chief Executive 12.5% 57.5% 125% remuneration subject to carefully considered long-term performance % of salary for Executive Directors 11.5% 52.9% 115% conditions: Aligning the interests of Executives with those of shareholders: The threshold of 97.5 per cent of target represents an increase over the 2008 09 EPS and an improvement in EVA over the prior year.
No Effectively using the Companys equity for the purposes of reward bonus would be payable on results below the threshold.
Maximum and retention: and bonus would be paid upon the achievement of 102.5 per cent of target Encouraging Executives to build and maintain a meaningful 2008 09: 105 per cent.
The Committee has changed the scale of performance versus target and maximum to reflect the considerable challenge in meeting The charts below show the proportionate breakdown of the package at even a threshold level of performance.
The degree of stretch is target and maximum remuneration showing the target levels of the annual considered by the Remuneration Committee to be suitably challenging bonus and Performance Share Plan as a proportion of the maximum: and the level of bonus payable at target performance is below half of the maximum, providing greater stretch at above target.
Proportion of fixed vs performance-related remuneration % The annual bonus is designed to drive complementary Chief Executive behaviours across the senior executive population as well as aligning with Target the Groups goals and with shareholders interests.
The table illustrates the cascade of targets for the year ended 31 March 2009 for the Business Maximum Driver Group currently approximately 35 employees.
Typically individuals will be bonused on two or three of these targets: Other Directors Target Performance measure Employee level 12 3 Maximum 0 20 40 60 80 100 EPS Executive Directors including Chief Salary Pension Annual bonus Performance share plan Executive EVA Executive Directors Executive This reflects the policy of driving both short and sustained long-term including Chief Committee performance.
A significant proportion of the package comprises short Executive and long-term performance linked elements, with the proportion Strategic personal Executive Certain Group, increasing at the higher level of performance.
performance Committee Commercial and Base salary: salaries are reviewed annually and are determined objectives Manufacturing and by individual performance and by reference to market salary levels Logistics roles obtained from independent sources.
This is the only element of Group Brand Executive Group remuneration which is pensionable.
Base salary increases during the year Contribution Committee Management ended 31 March 2009 for Executive Directors were between 2.7 per cent Group: Operating Group and 7.4 per cent.
In determining base salary levels for the Executive cash flow Management Management Operating Profit Directors, pay and conditions in the workforce are taken into account.
For the year commencing 1 April 2009, the base salaries of the Executive Regional Operating Regional cash flow Commercial Directors and the Executive Committee have been frozen at 2008 09 salary levels.
Salary increases across the Group have generally been in line Regional Brand Regional with local inflation or if greater, local salary inflation in the countries in Contribution Commercial which the Group operates.
Regional sales Regional Annual bonus: This is a cash plan, with performance targets Commercial that are designed to drive complementary behaviours within the wider Customer service Manufacturing executive population, aligned to the achievement of Group objectives.
and Logistics The maximum potential bonus payable is 125 per cent of base Category Brand Manufacturing salary for the Chief Executive and 115 per cent for the Executive Directors.
Contribution and Logistics The targets require that any bonus paid above market levels is for outstanding performance.
No specific targets are set for the Executive Overall, the Committee is satisfied that the annual bonus has created an Directors relating to environmental, social and governance ESG excellent link between reward and company performance.
The Companys performance in relation to ESG matters is robustly monitored and the Committee would consider any failure in these areas when determining any payment of bonus.
Shares to satisfy awards may be purchased in the market Remuneration report via the Companys Employee Benefit Trust or using newly issued shares.
Dilution for all schemes is held within the Association of British continued Insurers ABI limits.
The dilution levels compared to ABI limits as at 31 March 2009 were: ABI limit SSL dilution Performance Share Plan PSP All Executive Directors and certain other Executives are entitled to 10% over 10 years for all share schemes 3.63% participate in the PSP, which is the Groups only long-term incentive plan.
5% over 10 years for discretionary schemes 2.92% Under the PSP, conditional awards of shares are granted each year.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, the value of awards Shareholding guidelines as at the date of grant does not normally exceed 100 per cent of an All Executive Directors will be expected to retain at least 50 per cent of Executives base salary.
Subject to the satisfaction of performance shares net of tax which vest to them under the PSP until a shareholding conditions, determined annually by the Committee, awards vest on equivalent to 100 per cent of base salary is achieved.
Other participants the third anniversary of grant.
will be expected to build shareholdings ranging from 25 per cent to 50 per Details of outstanding awards are shown on page 48. cent of base salary.
The Committee has considered carefully, the performance conditions and targets attached to the 2009 10 awards.
The vesting Pensions of these awards continues to be subject to the achievement of a The Company operates a number of retirement benefit programmes combination of EPS one-third and EVA two-thirds targets.
Such benefits reflect local competitive conditions Committee considers that the continued policy of basing the and legal requirements.
performance conditions on the Companys financial performance In the UK the company operates three defined benefit schemes has created a very effective incentive.
The Committee monitors and a contracted-in defined contribution scheme, the SSL UK Pension performance targets to ensure that such targets remain sufficiently Scheme the SSL Scheme for UK employees.
All UK defined benefit stretching and aligned to the interests of shareholders.
schemes are closed to new entrants and future pension accrual.
Due to the nature of the performance conditions it is not Executive Directors who participate in the SSL Scheme possible to calculate an expected value using an option valuation model.
contribute 5 per cent of their base salary.
Executive Directors receive The vesting schedule for the proposed award is as follows: 25 per cent of base salary in respect of retirement provision.
Any contributions that are not made in respect of retirement provision EPS 1 3rd EVA 2 3rds are paid as a salary supplement.
Compound annual growth rate Aggregate generated over CAGR over the three financial the three financial years Ian Adamson, an Executive Director, is also a member of one of years ending March 2012 ending March 2012 the defined benefit schemes.
Garry Watts, Chief Executive, is not a member of the SSL Percentage of Performance Percentage of Performance Scheme but operates a personal pension plan.
Garry Watts receives salary vesting scale salary vesting scale 25 per cent of base salary in respect of retirement provision.
Any Below Threshold Nil 13.5% Nil 160m contributions that are not made in respect of retirement provision Threshold 5% 13.5% 10% 160m are paid as a salary supplement.
Maximum 33.3% 16.3% 66.7% 170m Other benefits The Company provides other benefits to all Executive Directors and A sliding scale of payment will operate between the points in the certain other Executives, in line with the benefits generally provided in target range.
their country of employment, namely a company car or car allowance, In the case of the EPS condition, the percentage growth range life assurance, income protection and private medical insurance.
is lower than that applying to the awards granted last year.
However, the base measurement point for this years awards represents an EPS Service contracts figure which is significantly ahead of last year, meaning that the EPS It is Company policy that the notice period in Executive Directors performance required to be achieved represents a clear improvement contracts should not exceed one year.
However, the Committee retains on last years targets.
the discretion to offer a notice period to an Executive Director in excess The EVA range of 160m to 170m represents a clear of one year, in exceptional circumstances, where this is considered progression on the target range set last year 130m 150m.
Despite EPS and EVA also being used for the annual bonus plan, The Executive Directors contracts have no fixed term but the Committee is satisfied that there is, in reality, limited overlap between provide that either the Director or the Company may terminate the the two plans.
Under the PSP, performance is measured over three years, employment by giving one years notice.
compared to a single financial year for the annual bonus, Director Date of contract thus requiring sustained high performance for targets to be achieved.
EPS and EVA will be calculated by the Company and the calculation will be independently verified before the awards vest.
The Committee is Garry Watts Chief Executive 5 February 2001 satisfied that the target range for both measures is sufficiently stretching Ian Adamson Executive Director 17 June 1996 and that their achievement would result in significant shareholder value Mark Moran Executive Director 28 May 2004 creation.
In particular, it is recognised that a relatively low by market standards proportion of the award vests at the initial vesting threshold.
Awards will not confer shareholder rights until the awards have vested and participants have received their shares.
Participants will be entitled to receive a payment in cash and or shares on, or shortly following, the vesting of their awards, of an amount equivalent to the total dividends that would have been paid on those shares between the time when the awards were granted and the time when they vest.
44 45 Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2009 There are no express provisions for compensation payable in the event Non-Executive Directors of termination except that Garry Watts contract provides that, if the Save as disclosed below, none of the Non-Executive Directors has Company terminates Mr Watts appointment with immediate effect, in a service contract.
addition to his contractual notice period, Mr Watts shall be entitled to a Gerald Corbett was appointed Non-Executive Chairman payment equivalent to the average of any bonus paid within the three of the Company on 1 August 2005 for an initial term of three years.
year period prior to the date of termination.
The Committee is satisfied The appointment has been renewed for a further three years and is that the inclusion of an award in respect of annual bonus is appropriate, terminable upon 12 months notice by either party.
Mr Corbett receives as this incorporates a performance-related element to any an annual fee of 180,000 and a company car.
The basic annual fee for Non-Executive Directors is 40,000.
If the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, the Committee Chairmen receive an additional fee of 10,000.
The Senior Committees policy is to apply mitigation to compensation payments at Independent Director receives a further 5,000 p. a. a level determined by reference to the individual circumstances of the Details of the appointments of the other Non-Executive Executive Director.
Appropriate external human resource advice would Directors are as follows: be obtained in each case.
Non-Executive Director Appointment letter Date of appointment Initial term Comments Peter Read 28 February 2002 21 March 2002 One year Renewed annually.
Currently expires on 21 March 2010 Richard Adam 21 October 2003 13 November 2003 Three years Renewed for a further three years with effect from 13 November 2006 Peter Johnson 3 July 2008 1 October 2008 Three years External appointments Director Non-executive directorship Fee 000 The Company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies.
These Garry Watts Stagecoach Group plc 44 appointments can be beneficial to both the individual and the Company Mark Moran Brixton plc 46 in providing further experience and knowledge, but the Companys consent is required before an Executive Director can accept such an appointment.
Fees are normally retained by the Director.
Remuneration shown above relates to the period for which each 2.
For the 2008 09 financial year, the performance targets for the annual Director served during the year.
All Directors served throughout the bonus were: year, except Peter Johnson, who was appointed a Non-Executive Target Threshold Stretch Actual Director on 1 October 2008 and Susan Murray and Anna Catalano EPS 23.81p 23.21p 25p 28p who resigned as Non-Executive Directors on 24 July 2008 and EVA 36.67m 35.75m 38.5m 46.61m 11 November 2008 respectively.
Remuneration report continued Notes continued This represented another year of outstanding profitability by 3.
Benefits include all taxable benefits arising from employment with the company.
The target EPS of 23.81p represents an increase the Company.
of 25 per cent over the target set in the previous year 19.1p.
During the year any contributions in respect of retirement provision The Committee has examined various indicators of company that were not made were paid as a salary supplement.
The amounts financial and non-financial performance and is comfortable that paid in the year which are included in the above table under benefits this excellent profitability has been delivered on a sustainable were as follows: basis and within an appropriate risk framework.
G. Watts 143,750 Therefore, the cash bonus payments will be: I. Adamson 54,117 G. Watts 718,500: I. Adamson 362,250: and M. Moran nil M. Moran 333,500.
These cash bonuses will be paid in June 2009.
Directors pensions audited information The following Directors received contributions as detailed below: 2009 2008 Company Company contribution contribution 000 000 G. Watts 20 I. Adamson 25 32 M. Moran 73 67 Notes: Pension contributions were paid as follows: 1.
I. Adamson into the SSL UK Pension Scheme and a personal pension plan.
M. Moran into the SSL UK Pension Scheme.
In addition, as noted, Ian Adamson is a member of a defined benefit scheme.
The pension entitlement and corresponding transfer value changed as follows during the year.
Gross increase Increase in Total accrued Value of net Total change in Value of accrued Value of accrued in accrued accrued pension pension at increase in accrual value during pension at pension at pension net of inflation 31 March 2009 over period period 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 000 p. a.
Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid 3.
The value of net increase represents the incremental value to the annually on retirement based on service to the date the scheme Director of his service during the year.
As the scheme closed to future closed to future accrual 31 August 1995 and based on current accrual of benefits in 1995 this increase is zero.
pensionable salary as at the end of the year.
The change in the transfer value includes the effect of fluctuations in 2.
The transfer values at the beginning of the year have been calculated the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the company in accordance with version 9.2 of guidance note GN11 issued by the and Directors, such as stock market movements.
actuarial profession, however from 1 October 2008 GN11 ceased to 5.
Voluntary contributions paid by Directors and resulting benefits are apply.
The year end transfer values have been calculated using the not shown.
transfer value basis set by the Trustees.
46 47 Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors interests in shares audited information Shareholdings The following table shows the beneficial interests of the Directors who held office at the end of the year in the ordinary shares of the Company: Shareholdings Shareholdings as at as at 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 Directors as at 31 March 2009 R. Adam 1,530 1,506 I. Adamson 74,666 15,626 G. Corbett 32,500 32,500 P. Johnson 10,000 M. Moran 48,489 1,797 P. Read 5,106 5,023 G. Watts 104,613 50,000 Note: 1.
No Director held a non-beneficial interest in any shares.
Exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share during exercisable, between sixth and eighth for a pro-rata between 50 per cent the performance period exceeding the retail price index RPI.
The and 100 per cent of the option to become exercisable and eighth decile targets for each grant are as follows: and above for 100 per cent of the option to become exercisable.
Both the earnings per share and TSR condition have been met.
1.1 Exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share for not less than three years commencing on 1 April 2001 exceeding the 2.
Following the disposal of the Groups medical business and the growth in RPI by at least an average 2 per cent p. a.
This condition has resultant reduction in earnings, the Committee reviewed the been met.
performance conditions attaching to options granted under the SSL 1996 Executive Share Option Scheme.
It was agreed that the 1.2 Exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share for performance criteria should be rebased to fairly compare historical three years commencing on 1 April 2002 exceeding the growth in earnings with those in the ongoing business, but the rebased figures RPI by no less than 2 per cent p. a.
This condition has been met.
should be no less stretching than the previous targets.
Given the share 1.3 Exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share for price at the times of grants which was in excess of 480 pence, the three years commencing on 1 April 2004 exceeding the growth in Committee determined that only earnings since the financial year RPI by no less than 3 per cent p. a.
ended 31 March 2002 would be reviewed.
Consequently the earnings per share figures for the financial years ended 2002, 2003 and 2004 1.4 Exercise is subject to performance conditions that must be satisfied were rebased.
In light of the rise in the share price during the year to over initially a three-year period although this may be extended up to five 31 March 2008, the Committee agreed that the earnings per share years.
The exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share figures for the financial year 2001 be rebased.
The calculations to exceeding the growth in RPI by at least an average of 3 per cent p. a. and determine all figures were independently checked by Ernst & Young TSR of the Company when compared to TSR of companies of the FTSE LLP, although Ernst & Young LLP expressed no opinion on the accuracy 250 reaching sixth decile for 50 per cent of the option to become of the base data and the appropriateness of the underlying assumptions.
Remuneration report continued Notes continued 3.
No options were exercised in the previous period.
There are no performance criteria for exercise of options under the SAYE scheme.
On 2 April 2008, Ian Adamson exercised options over 5,527 ordinary shares of 10 pence in the Company, granted at 208.0 pence per share.
The market price of the Companys shares was 449.00 pence on The market price on 2 April 2008 was 467.5 pence per share.
On 31 March 2009 and ranged from 380.0 pence to 528.0 pence during 17 April 2008, Garry Watts exercised options over 3,997 ordinary the year.
shares of 10 pence in the Company, granted at 237.0 pence per share.
No options were granted in the period.
The market price on 17 April 2008 was 443.5 pence per share.
Both exercises were in respect of the SSL Sharesave Scheme an SAYE scheme.
The award price is the average of the middle market quotations for an SSL share derived from the Official List of the UKLA for the five consecutive dealing days preceding the date of the award.
These awards vested in full on 11 August 2008.
The market price on The graph shows the Companys Total Shareholder Return performance 11 August 2008 was 462 pence.
The gross value of shares received compared with that of the FTSE 350 Index.
This index was selected as an by Directors therefore, was as follows: G. Watts 794,085.60, appropriate comparator index because it is a broad equity market index I. Adamson 366,268.98, M. Moran 366,268.98. of which SSL is a constituent.
Over the period, RPI has grown by 8.4 per cent.
EPS grew by 118.8 per Total shareholder return FTSE 350 Index cent, therefore, the award will vest in full.
To the extent to which these targets are met, 50 per cent of the total shares calculated above will vest on the fourth anniversary of the date of grant and the remaining 50 per cent of the total shares calculated 150 above will vest on the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, assuming the Director is still employed by SSL on those dates.
100 There has been no change in interests of serving Directors between 31 March 2009 and 18 May 2009.
50 0 Mar 04 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 Mar 09 This graph looks at the value, by 31 March 2009, of 100 invested in SSL International on 31 March 2004 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Source: Thompson Financial For and on behalf of the Board Peter Read Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 18 May 2009 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Statement of Directors Group and parent company financial statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
responsibilities in respect Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under of the Annual Report and that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and the Financial statements have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK accounting standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: For the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual financial report We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and The Directors report, Chairmans statement, Strategy and priorities section, Chief Executives review and Financial review include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
M. Moran Director G. Watts Director 18 May 2009 50 51 Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2009
