Directors Remuneration Report Year ended 29 November 2009 impact on the majority of our Committee has appointed and taken employees: independent advice from Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte, in relation Maximum bonus opportunity to be to remuneration matters and on increased in 2010, in line with our share incentive arrangements tax stated policy: efficiencies.
Fees paid to Deloitte during the year amounted to 44,825 Up to 20% of bonus opportunity excluding VAT.
Deloitte do not to relate to strategic objectives, undertake any other work for the in support of managing business Company.
risk: LTIP TSR comparator group to be Remuneration policy broadened and additional EPS The remuneration policy has been growth measure to be applied: Introduction designed to ensure that the Group This report has been prepared in Introduction of two UK all has the capability to attract and accordance with the Companies employee share schemes SAYE retain Directors and senior managers Act 2006 and the Directors and SIP, with other jurisdictions of a high calibre, to align the interests Remuneration Regulations 2002, to be added.
of senior management with those relevant provisions of the Listing of shareholders and be compliant Rules and the Combined Code.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION with recommended practice.
Individual pay levels are determined Remuneration Committee The Regulations require the by reference to competitive The Remuneration Committee auditors to report to the Companys market conditions, performance, the Committee determines shareholders on the auditable part of experience and potential.
In setting the remuneration policy and the the Directors Remuneration Report the policy the Committee considers, individual remuneration packages and to state whether in their opinion for benchmarking purposes, the of the Chairman, the Executive this part of the report has been remuneration of relevant senior Directors, the Company Secretary properly prepared in accordance with management in comparable quoted and certain key senior management the Companies Act 2006 as amended or similar companies.
The Committees Terms of by the Regulations.
The report has Reference are available at therefore been divided into separate There are three main elements of the www.
sections for unaudited and audited remuneration package for Executive information.
Directors: During the year the Committee comprised only independent Non As required by the Regulations, a basic annual salary and benefits, Executive Directors, being Tony resolution to approve the report will including company car allowance, Ward Chairman, Alicja Lesniak be proposed at the forthcoming pension contributions, and health and Nadhim Zahawi.
The Chief Annual General Meeting.
insurance cover: Executive Officer, Group HR Director and remuneration advisors regularly annual cash bonus payments: and Year in focus summary attend meetings by invitation, except share-based long-term incentives for matters related to their own Continued policy of positioning see Long Term Incentive Plan or remuneration.
The Committee met base salaries between lower LTIP below.
four times during the year and no quartile and median for the member of the Committee has any relevant competitive market: personal financial interest other In setting the policy on total No salary increases proposed for than as a shareholder in the matters remuneration, the Groups policy is to the Executive Directors in light decided.
position the base salaries of Directors of the challenging economic and senior management at between background and the associated lower quartile and median for the To help achieve its objectives, the SThree plc 19 Directors Remuneration Report Year ended 29 November 2009 continued relevant competitive market, with Committee will resume its policy of to 120% of salary, with any element a higher than average proportion of making sure that salaries are adjusted over 100% of salary being paid in their remuneration being performance to a level between the lower quartile deferred shares, vesting in equal related.
This policy was examined by and the median of the data when tranches over two years, provided Deloitte during the last benchmarking conditions change.
the Executive remains employed exercise and will continue to be with the Group.
Up to 20% of the reviewed to ensure that it remains in bonus opportunity will relate Executive Directors also receive line with market practice.
directly to progress towards the an employers contribution to their Companys strategic objectives, as personal pension schemes equivalent agreed by the Board and in support In order to ensure an appropriate to 10% of their basic salaries, subject of managing any related business balance between fixed and to each Executive Director making 5% risk.
The Committee considers performance-related pay, annual cash personal contributions.
Bonuses and overall performance, including bonus payments are dependent on the benefits are not pensionable.
environmental, social and governance Groups annual financial performance ESG issues, when calibrating the and Executive Directors receipt of Annual Bonus Scheme remuneration of Executives, to ensure shares under the Long Term Incentive Executives receive annual bonus that the incentive structure for senior Plan will be dependent on enhanced payments based on the achievement management does not inadvertently relative returns to shareholders as of Group profit targets, underpinned encourage irresponsible behaviour.
well as Earnings Per Share EPS by objectives linked to specific Group growth over a three-year period.
targets, which are agreed by the Long Term Incentive Plan Committee.
For 2009, the maximum Executive Directors basic salary In November 2006, shareholders bonus opportunity for Executive and pension arrangements approved a share-based LTIP for Directors was 100% of salary, Executive Directors and other The basic annual salaries of the although for individuals below Board members of the senior management Executive Directors for the year-ended level this was uncapped, with deferral team to provide an incentive to 29 November 2009 were Russell into shares for any achievement increase shareholder value and Clements, 317,000: Gary Elden, over 100% of salary.
Where agreed support alignment with shareholder 241,500: Alex Smith, 235,400: targets, based on profit before tax, interests through building a stake and Sunil Wickremeratne, 266,500. are achieved, 50% of salary was in SThree shares.
No further awards Salaries are normally reviewed in paid.
For achievement above these are planned to be made under the December each year and during 2009 targets, bonus was paid on a pro-rata Executive Share Option Scheme the Committee undertook a detailed basis, with maximum bonus payable operated by the Company before benchmarking of total compensation for achieving substantially above flotation.
with the support of Deloitte.
The target i. e. achieving 110% of target.
Committee concluded from the No bonus was paid for achievement During 2009, the Committee market data that the base salary below a certain threshold 90% of commissioned Deloitte to review level for Russell Clements remained target, with pro rata payment for the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP significantly below the comparable achievement between 90% and 110% performance criteria and concluded market level, with others less of target.
During the year, an average that: a relative total shareholder markedly below.
bonus equal to 50% of salary was return TSR remains an important accrued for all Executive Directors measure of Executive performance: based on the Committees assessment However, the Committee agreed with b the TSR comparator group of achieving a level of profit that was the Executive Directors request that, should be broadened to avoid high appropriate, in light of the exceptional in the light of the current economic levels of volatility and ensure valid market conditions, and the very good background and the associated comparisons: and c an Earnings Per performance which resulted.
impact on the majority of our Share EPS growth measure should employees, no salary increases should be applied to ensure that Executives be awarded to any of the Executive For 2010, the bonus maximum for are appropriately incentivised Directors, with the proviso that the Executive Directors is to be increased SThree plc 20 Directors Remuneration Report Year ended 29 November 2009 continued and rewarded.
Views of major re-test performance.
For other Ricardo plc, Robert Walters plc, shareholders on these proposed participants, the Committee has RPS Group plc, RTC Group plc, improvements were sought during discretion to decide whether Saville Group plc, Servoca plc, December 2009 and there were or not a performance condition Staffline Group plc, Tribal Group no objections.
Therefore, whilst no should apply to grants: plc, Waterman Group plc, White changes are proposed to the already Young plc, Work Group plc, World For the reasons stated above, approved TSR vesting hurdles, 50% Careers Network plc and WS from February 2010, the current of awards to Executive Directors Atkins plc.
This list is reviewed peer group of approximately 18 made from February 2010 onwards annually: mainly recruitment or service will be made subject to TSR and related businesses used for the The preferred EPS growth 50% subject to EPS performance TSR measure is to be expanded measure is to be Compound measures.
to comprise some 40 UK-listed Average Growth Rate CAGR, peer group companies, all being as it rewards value creation The main features of the LTIP are as recruitment or service companies equally over the period covered follows: from the FTSE Support Services, by the incentive.
Pre-exceptional, AIM or Fledgling indices, set out undiluted EPS, is to be used as Awards of shares can be made, as follows: Empresaria Group the basis for awards, so that any each year, to Executive Directors plc, Experian plc, Garner plc, material abnormal influences are and other senior executives in the Harvey Nash Group plc, Hays plc, taken as pre-exceptional items form of forfeitable shares or share Healthcare Locums plc, Hexagon and any abnormal influences options nil-cost or market value : Human Capital plc, Highams which are not material but still The maximum annual face value Systems Services Group plc, significant are highlighted to the of awards which may be made Hyder Consulting plc, Hydrogen Committee for consideration: to Executive Directors is 175% of Group plc, Impeilam Group plc, Both the TSR and EPS measures salary, whilst over a three-year Interquest Group plc, Kellan Group to be used for awards in 2010 are period the Committee intends that plc, Management Consulting summarised below.
For the EPS no Executive Director will receive Group plc, Matchtech Group plc, measure the Committee will take aggregate awards in excess of a Michael Page International plc, into consideration both internal face value of 450% of salary: Mitie Group plc, Morson Group and external forecasts in setting plc, Mouchel Group plc, Network All Executive Directors awards targets, as well as the guidelines Group Holdings plc, Networkers must be subject to a performance of key investor bodies.
The TSR International plc, Office2office plc, condition, assessed over the measure remains as previously Penna Consulting plc, Pinnacle three years following the date approved by shareholders.
Staffing Group plc, Prime People of grant, with no facility to plc, Regus plc, Rethink Group plc, Companys TSR ranking against Percentage of award that comparator group over performance Companys EPS growth over vests period performance period None Below median Below RPI plus 5% 30% Median RPI plus 5% 100% Upper quartile or better RPI plus 10% or better Pro rata on a straight line between 30% and 100% Between median and upper quartile Between RPI plus 5% and RPI plus 10% SThree plc 21 Directors Remuneration Report Year ended 29 November 2009 continued shares existing in the Trust.
Under the Employee Benefit Trusts and Non-Executive Directors terms of the Trust Deed constituting other Share Plans All Non-Executive Directors have the No.
2 ESOP, the Trustees have The Group has a culture that specific letters of appointment, undertaken to waive all dividend encourages share participation at all available upon request, and their rights on ordinary shares comprised levels.
Two Employee Benefit Trusts remuneration is determined by the in the trust fund.
The Executive EBTs, which were funded by gifts Board within the limits set by the Directors do not currently participate from some of the current and former Articles of Association and normally in any of these arrangements.
Directors, hold assets comprising based on independent surveys of shares in the Company.
Shares in fees paid to Non-Executive Directors In terms of dilution, the Committee the EBTs are mainly held for awards of similar companies.
Remuneration intends that awards under the LTIP, and grants under share option and is set taking account of the EBTs and other share plans should be share award schemes introduced commitment and responsibilities of satisfied by a combination of existing prior to flotation, in which a number the relevant role.
The Non-Executive EBT shares, market purchases and of employees still participate.
In Directors do not have service new issue shares.
Where new issue 2009, shareholders approved the contracts.
In 2009, the Committee shares are used, this will be done introduction of a Savings-Related undertook a benchmarking review in accordance with the guidelines Share Option Scheme SAYE Scheme of fees payable to the Chairman and provided by the Association of British and a Savings & Investment Plan Non-Executive Directors with the Insurers.
SIP, so that those UK employees support of Deloitte and the resulting who joined the Group after 2004 proposal, that there should be no fee and who could not benefit from the Executive Directors service increase, was agreed with the Board.
earlier share schemes could then contracts have access to such all employee Sir Anthony Cleaver has a letter of It is the Companys policy that schemes.
The Company intends to appointment dated 11 November Executive Directors should have make available similar arrangements 2005, which replaced a prior letter of contracts with a rolling term providing in other jurisdictions, subject to appointment signed before flotation.
for a maximum of 12 months notice.
local laws, etc, where commercially The current annual fees paid to Sir Consequently, in the event of an early justifiable and has set the critical Anthony Cleaver are 100,000. termination, the contractual right is to mass of headcount for roll out in 12 months basic salary and benefits, each country at 100 employees.
with mitigation being generally Alicja Lesniak, Tony Ward, Paul Roll out will begin in 2010 for those required to reduce any compensation Bowtell and Nadhim Zahawi were countries which have already met payable to a departing Director.
appointed Non-Executive Directors this criteria, with new countries to be on 3 May 2006, 14 August 2006, progressively added each year in line The Executive Directors are employed 5 November 2007 and 1 May 2008, with the agreed headcount threshold.
on service contracts with the Group respectively, and receive annual fees which commenced on 11 November of 35,000 each.
In respect of those share plans and 2005 both Russell Clements and related Trusts introduced prior to Sunil Wickremeratne, 14 April 2008 Sir Anthony Cleaver is Chairman flotation these comprise an Executive Gary Elden and 7 May 2008 Alex of the Nomination Committee, but Share Option Scheme, the Forfeitable Smith.
Each of these contracts receives no additional fee.
Paul Share Plan, the Share Gift Plan, and provides an entitlement to a basic Bowtell is Chairman of the Audit the No.
In annual salary, performance bonus Committee for which he receives an respect of the No.
2 ESOP, this had scheme participation, a company car additional fee of 5,000 pa, whilst adopted a Trust Option Plan and had allowance, pension contributions as Tony Ward also receives an additional agreed to satisfy the majority of well as health insurance cover and is fee of 5,000 pa as Chairman of the options granted under the Executive terminable by 12 months notice given Remuneration Committee.
Share Option Scheme, and all awards by either party.
under the Forfeitable Share Plan, with SThree plc 22 Directors Remuneration Report Year ended 29 November 2009 continued Non-Executive Directors are appointed be expected to serve for a second Executive Directors are not entitled to for an initial term of three years, three-year term.
Non-Executive compensation and no fee is payable in terminable by either the Company Directors may be requested to serve respect of the unexpired portion of the or the Non-Executive Director at will, for a further third three-year term term of appointment.
Non-Executive and, in normal circumstances, subject subject to rigorous review at the Directors cannot participate in any to performance and re-election at relevant time and their agreement.
Annual General Meetings, they would Upon termination or resignation, NonTOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR The graph below shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR of the Company since flotation on 16 November 2005, for the Group and the FTSE Support Services index, which is considered the most illustrative comparator index for investors, as the Company is a constituent of this index and its constituents are also used for comparing pay and benefit levels.
300 250 Source: Datastream 200 150 100 50 0 16-Nov 05 16-May 06 16-Nov 06 16-May 07 16-Nov 07 16-May 08 16-Nov 08 16-May 09 16-Nov 09 FTSE All Share Support Services SThree SThree plc 23 Total shareholder returns rebased to 100 Directors Remuneration Report Year ended 29 November 2009 continued AUDITED INFORMATION Directors remuneration The table below summarises all Directors emoluments and pension contributions for the current and the prior year for comparison.
No other awards were made to any Director during the year to 29 November 2009.
Gary Elden received a reduction in salary between 1 March and 30 September 2009, due to him taking a pension salary sacrifice.
Long Term Incentive Plan, Minority Stakes and other share options or awards The Committee has made the following awards to Executive Directors of forfeitable and deferred shares under the LTIP, with awards being subject to the Companys TSR performance relative to peer group, as well as EPS from 2010, as detailed earlier.
The next awards are to be made in February 2010.
Shares SAYE Date of Option price Shares Vesting outstanding as Name of Director grant award at grant award awarded date at 29 Nov 2009 Russell Clements 26 6 2009 158.40p 5,729 1 11 2012 5,729 Gary Elden 26 6 2009 158.40p 5,729 1 11 2012 5,729 Alex Smith 26 6 2009 158.40p 5,729 1 11 2012 5,729 Sunil Wickremeratne 26 6 2009 158.40p 5,729 1 11 2012 5,729 Gary Elden also holds small percentage shareholdings in a number of SThree businesses under the Groups Minority Stake arrangements.
The earliest of these was created in November 2006 and in some cases loans were provided by the Group to enable all senior individuals to acquire their shares.
In Gary Eldens case, loans totalling 305,216 were granted under normal commercial terms on 30 November 2006 and 6 February 2007.
All loans outstanding are expected to be repaid in full and details of the individual arrangements are also disclosed in the statutory accounts of the relevant businesses concerned.
As an Executive Director, Gary cannot participate in any Minority Stake arrangement approved by shareholders after his appointment to the Board.
However, at the AGM in April 2009, shareholders ratified his participation in the 2008 arrangements, as these were approved at the AGM in April 2008, but not actually created until after his Board appointment in July 2008.
Accordingly, Gary will be offered the opportunity to invest in these Minority Stakes in early 2010, in line with other senior individuals within the Group.
No other awards or share options are held by the Executive Directors.
Directors interests in shares In accordance with the Listing Rules, the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company at 29 November 2009 are shown below and there have been no changes to this information as at the date of this report.
No Director had any other interest in the share capital of the Company or its subsidiaries, or exercised any share options, during the year, other than as already disclosed.
Ordinary shares held at Ordinary shares held at Percentage of Name of Director 1 Dec 2008 Changes in year 29 Nov 2009 Share Capital Russell Clements 4,738,151 398 4,738,549 3.89% Gary Elden 3,384,620 398 3,385,018 2.78% Alex Smith 398 398 Below 0.1% Sunil Wickremeratne 10,670,975 398 10,671,373 8.76% Sir Anthony Cleaver 152,446 152,446 0.13% Paul Bowtell 10,000 10,000 0.01% Alicja Lesniak 4,245 4,245 0.01% Tony Ward 12,063 12,063 0.01% Nadhim Zahawi 14,720 14,720 0.01% Interests in shares relate only to ordinary shares of 1 pence each, but may include partnership and matching shares held in trust under the SIP, which are subject to forfeiture conditions in certain circumstances.
During 2008, following a review of market practice in conjunction with Deloitte, the Committee decided to introduce formal shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors.
As such, all Executive Directors must attain a level of shares equivalent to at least 100% base salary within five years of 1 December 2008, or their date of appointment.
Although there is no formal shareholding requirement below Executive Director level, most Executive Committee members already hold shareholdings SThree plc 25 Directors Remuneration Report Year ended 29 November 2009 continued well in excess of this level in line with the Groups culture of encouraging share participation at all levels.
In particular, It is currently estimated that, in total, over 30% of the Companys share capital is held by Directors, Founders, the Employee Benefit Trusts, senior management and other employees.
On 27 November 2009, the last dealing day before the year end, the closing market price of SThree plc ordinary shares was 250p.
The highest and lowest closing prices of these shares during the year, was 276.3p and 124.0p respectively, based on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
Approval This report was approved by the Committee, on behalf of the Board, on the date shown below and signed on its behalf by: Tony Ward, OBE Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 29 January 2010 SThree plc 26
