Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.
com 40 Corporate governance Directors Remuneration Report This report, which has been prepared in accordance with Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, outlines the membership and workings of the Remuneration Committee the Committee and provides an explanation of the components of the Groups remuneration policy together with details of Directors remuneration in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009.
As required by the Companies Act 2006, a resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The auditors are required to report to shareholders regarding Directors remuneration, descriptions of the Groups Long-Term Incentive Arrangements and Sharesave Scheme and the information contained in tables 1 and 2 in this report the auditable parts, and to state whether, in their opinion, these parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Act.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee The Committee is comprised solely of Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by John OReilly.
The other members of the Committee are John Hughes and Simon Batey.
John Hughes was appointed as a member of the Committee in accordance with the Combined Code which permits the Chairman of a Company, where he is deemed independent on appointment as Chairman, to be a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Ian Nolan served on the Committee during the year until he stepped down from the Board on 23 December 2009.
The Committee met three times during the year to consider the employment terms and remuneration of Executive Directors, to consider and approve the grant of share awards in the Company, and to review remuneration matters of the Group generally.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the fee level of the Groups Chairman.
The fees of Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board itself.
Whilst the Chief Executive Officer may at the invitation of the Committee Chairman attend Committee meetings, the other Executive Directors do not normally attend.
No Director has any involvement in decisions regarding his own remuneration.
Ernst & Young LLP provided independent external advice during the year to assist the Committee in remuneration matters as they did in the prior year when it included the formulation and implementation of the review of the Groups remuneration policy.
Ernst & Young LLP was appointed by the Committee in 2007 and only provides advice to the Group in respect of Directors remuneration.
Remuneration policy and key elements of remuneration The key policy objective of the Committee is to secure and retain high calibre Executive Directors with the skills, experience and motivation necessary to direct and manage the affairs of the Group so as to maximise shareholder value on a sustainable basis.
The Committee aims to align its remuneration policies with the Groups medium and long-term strategy.
This is achieved by a combination of: a basic salary package, including benefits in kind, which recognises the responsibilities of individual Directors: I the Annual Bonus Scheme, that provides rewards which reflect the performance of the Group and the contribution of individual I Directors in a particular year: long-term incentives which incentivise Executives to deliver sustained improvement in financial performance and shareholder I returns over a period of years: and a pension contribution, which funds retirement benefits.
I The aim of the policy is to set total remuneration at or around the market median.
In calculating the market benchmark, the Committee uses a conventional approach of referring to the group of 60 companies in the FTSE 350 ranked by capitalisation in which the Company is at the median.
The key elements of the remuneration of the Executive Directors are as follows: Basic salary I The annual b asic salaries of Michael Tobin and Brian McArthur-Muscroft have been increased for 2010 to 475,000 and 265,000 respectively.
The levels are at or around the market median for the Companys now current comparator group of companies following the significant success and substantial growth of the Company over the past year.
Annual bonus I The maximum potential annual bonus for each of the Executive Directors is 110% of annual base salary.
The bonus is only payable to the extent that stretching corporate performance targets set by the Remuneration Committee are achieved or exceeded.
Of the total b onus that becomes payable in each year, up to the first 30% is satisfied wholly in cash and any amount of bonus payable above this will be satisfied 40% in cash and 60% in restricted shares.
It will not normally be possible to sell these shares until at least two years after the bonus becomes payable and then providing the Executive Director continues in employment with the Group.
It is considered that this approach both augments shareholder alignment and provides the Directors with a meaningful incentive to meet challenging short-term targets for the business.
Telecity Group Performance Share Plan PSP I The PSP is th e Companys main Long-Term Incentive Arrangement.
It permits the grant of two different types of incentive: performance related awards of shares at nil cost performance shares and performance related grants at fair market value of options to acquire shares share options.
Further details of the PSP are given on page 42.
As in 2009, during 2010 the Company intends to operate the PSP in relation to Executive Directors on the following basis: first, the Company intends to grant performance shares, rather than share options although the facility to grant options I remains, if the Committee considers these to be more appropriate.
It is considered that this better aligns the Company with market practice: and 1 TCY ar09 back.
com Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate governance 41 Remuneration policy and key elements of remuneration continued Telecity Group Performance Share Plan PSP continued I secondly, awards will be within a limit of 100% of annual salary for grants of performance shares or 150% of annual I salary in the event that share options are granted.
Relative total shareholder return TSR will continue to be used in 2010 as the performance measure for PSP awards.
The Remuneration Committee considers it to be the best measure to support the Groups business strategy and deliver value to shareholders over the medium to long-term.
Awards will vest to the extent of 25% for median performance and then on a sliding scale to full vesting for upper quartile performance.
Vesting of awards will continue to be after three years from the date of award.
The Remuneration Committee considers that this approach gives Executives the potential to earn rewards that are both fair and capable of incentivising them to increase shareholder value.
Pensions and benefits I With effect from 1 January 2010, Company contributions to the Executives pension schemes have been increased to 16% and 18% 2009: 14% and 14% of basic salary for Brian McArthur-Muscroft and Michael Tobin respectively, and the Executives receive a car allowance equivalent to approximately 4% 2009: 3% of salary, all to be in line with market practice in comparable companies.
The Executives are also entitled to life assurance, medical, and permanent health insurance.
The estimated values for 2009 of these provisions are included in the summary of Directors remuneration in table 1 on page 43.
Terms of employment Each Executive Directors employment is terminable on six months notice by the Executive Director and 12 months notice by the Company.
The Company may elect to terminate the employment of an Executive Director by making a payment equal to 12 months basic salary, Company pension contributions, and contractual benefits.
No payment is due to be made in these circumstances for any element of bonus not then earned by the Executive Director.
Details of the Directors service contracts are set out below: Date of contract Effective date Michael Tobin 5 October 2007 5 October 2007 Brian McArthur-Muscroft 5 October 2007 5 October 2007 Executive Directors are permitted to accept external appointments with the prior approval of the Board and where there is no impact on their role within the Group.
Any fees arising from such appointments may be retained by the Executive Director where the appointment is unrelated to the Groups business.
Fees from external appointments are disclosed in this report.
Executive Directors are required to hold shares in the Company with an aggregate value of at least their annual salary at that time based on the Companys share price on the London Stock Exchange.
Details of the numbers of shares held by the Executive Directors are shown on page 32.
It is considered that these shareholdings significantly align the interests of the Executive Directors with those of shareholders.
If the published accounts of the Group are restated for any reason after they have first been published, and if such restated accounts would have resulted in an Executive Director receiving a lesser amount in terms of annual bonus, awards of shares or options over shares or other remuneration, then the Executive Director is required to immediately repay the balance to the Company.
Annual bonus scheme Annual bonus payments are based on the extent to which the corporate or individual performance targets set by the Remuneration Committee each year are achieved or exceeded in the relevant year.
For 2009, each Executive Director was entitled to an annual bonus of 110% of annual basic salary for maximum performance.
The targets for payment of the 2009 annual bonus were based on: Proportion of total potential % of target Performance target bonus Target Actual achieved EBITDA 35% 60.4m 63.9m 105.7% Earnings per share 35% 15.21p 17.75p 116.7% 1 Adjusted net debt 30% 77.9m 55.9m 128.2% 1 Calculated as target year end net debt adjusted for approved changes to capital expenditure in the year.
The above performance results in total bonuses payable equivalent to 104% of basic salary.
These payments will be satisfied by the payment of cash and the issue of shares as detailed under annual bonus on page 40.
The bonus is not pensionable.
For 2010, each Executive Director will be entitled to an annual bonus of up to 110% of basic salary based on the level of actual performance achieved as compared with the targets shown in the table on the following bases: for achievement of below 90% of target, zero payment: I for achievement of 90% to 100% of target, payment on a sliding scale from 30% to 80%: I for achievement of 100% to 105% of target, payment on a sliding scale from 80% to the maximum of 110%: and I for achievement of over 105% of target, payment of the maximum of 110%.
indd 10 22 02 2010 09:56:14 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.
com 42 Corporate governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual bonus scheme continued Proportion of total potential Performance target bonus 1 Adjusted EBITDA 35% 1 Adjusted earnings per share 35% 1 2 Adjusted net debt 30% 1 Subject to adjustments approved or that may be approved by the Remuneration Committee.
2 Calculated as year end net debt adjusted for approved changes to capital expenditure in the year.
These payments will be satisfied by the payment of cash and the issue of shares as detailed under Annual Bonus on page 40.
Long-Term Incentive Arrangements Telecity Group Performance Share Plan PSP The PSP permits the grant of two different types of incentive, performance related awards of ordinary shares performance shares and performance related grants of options performance options to acquire ordinary shares at fair market value at the date of grant.
The Remuneration Committee will not award both performance shares and performance options under the PSP in the same year to any one individual.
Awards are generally made on an annual basis.
Executive Directors and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are eligible to participate in the PSP.
Participation is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee will decide whether to grant performance options or award performance shares, and the level of each to be issued.
It also sets the policy for the operation of the PSP, for example by agreeing performance targets and individual grant levels.
Under the PSP, eligible employees may be granted performance related awards entitling them, at the end of a specified vesting period to a number of ordinary shares determined by reference to performance over that period.
The intention for 2010, as was done in 2009, is to grant performance shares with the maximum number of performance shares to be awarded to an eligible Executive Director in any financial year calculated by reference to the market value of those ordinary shares at the date of the award not to exceed 100% of annual basic salary: save in exceptional circumstances where the Remuneration Committee determines at its discretion that it is necessary and appropriate to exceed this limit.
In relation to awards of performance options, each Executive Directors or employees participation would be limited so that the aggregate price payable on the exercise of all performance options granted to him or her in any year under the PSP will not exceed 150% of the participants annual basic salary at the date of grant: save in exceptional circumstances where the Remuneration Committee determines in its discretion that it is necessary and appropriate to exceed this limit.
Prior to the issue of awards on any occasion, the Remuneration Committee will determine a performance target for awards which it considers to be appropriately demanding and which will be described to shareholders in the Directors Remuneration Report for the relevant year.
For 2009, the performance target was Total Shareholder Return as compared with other FTSE 250 companies, excluding investment trusts, and it is intended that this again be the performance target for 2010.
The reasons for use of this as the performance target are commented upon further in the section of this report relating to remuneration policy.
Vesting is based on a sliding scale ranging from 25% for median performance to 100% for upper quartile performance and is over a period of three years from the date of grant.
To the extent that new ordinary shares are to be issued to satisfy performance share awards under the PSP or Sharesave Scheme described below, no awards may be issued if it would cause the aggregate number of ordinary shares capable of being awarded under those schemes together with any new schemes in the future during the preceding ten years to exceed 10% of the Companys share capital at the proposed date of issue.
The Telecity Group IPO Share Option Plan the SOP The SOP enabled the Company to grant options to acquire ordinary shares at the offer price at the time of the IPO of the Company in October 2007 to eligible key employees.
The purpose of the SOP was to provide an incentive to key employees which vests at appropriate dates in the period prior to the vesting of the first awards under the PSP, in March 2011.
Further details of the SOP were given in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007.
This was the only grant of options to be made under the SOP and no further grants will be made under it in the future.
Options granted under the SOP will be satisfied using ordinary shares issued for this purpose to the Groups Employee Benefit Trust at admission to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
Sharesave Scheme Under the Sharesave Scheme, which has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs, employees may be granted an option to acquire ordinary shares at a fixed exercise price.
Subject to certain conditions, all employees are eligible to participate.
Participating employees are required to save each month into a savings account for a period of either three or four years, the proceeds of which they may use to exercise the option.
The employee will have a right to acquire the number of ordinary shares which he or she can acquire at the exercise price using the savings in his or her savings account.
Subject to tax provisions in the relevant jurisdiction, a tax-free bonus is payable on the savings in the savings account on completion of the relevant savings contract.
At the end of the savings period, the employee may either exercise the option within six months of the end of the savings period using the savings contributions and bonus which he or she has accumulated or have the savings and bonus repaid to him or her.
The maximum amount that an employee may save each month over the three year or four year period is 250.
The option exercise price may be set at a discount of up to 20% to the market value of the ordinary shares at the time of grant.
com Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate governance 43 Non-Executive Directors Fees payable to Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board and are reviewed periodically within the limits set by the Articles of Association.
Fees of Independent Non-Executive Directors are intended to reflect the time commitment and responsibilities of individual Non-Executive Directors roles and are set at broadly market median-levels to ensure individuals of the necessary calibre and experience are recruited and retained.
The Non-Executive Directors do not accrue any other benefits in addition to their annual fee and do not participate in the Groups pension schemes.
No fees are payable to the Non-Independent Non-Executive Director, Robert Morse, nor were any payable to Ian Nolan or Sergei Riabtsov who served as Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors during the year.
During the year, the fees payable to Independent Non-Executive Directors were reviewed by the Board with reference to market data on Non-Executive Directors in comparable companies from Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys remuneration advisors, and the search firms who tendered to assist the Company with the recruitment of a Non-Executive Director: and with reference to the time commitment from the relevant Directors.
Following this review, and having taken account of that market data, the Board amended the fees payable to the Independent Non-Executive Directors to the following amounts with effect from 1 January 2010, reflecting an increase in the base fee only, of 2,500.
000 Base fee 40.0 Fee for chairing a Main Board Committee 5.0 Fee for acting as Senior Independent Director 7.5 The Group has letters of appointment with each of the Non-Executive Directors which set out, amongst other things, their duties and expected time commitment.
The appointment letters of the Non-Executive Directors other than the Chairman are for an initial period of three years but may be terminated at any time by either party on one months written notice.
The Companys Chairman, John Hughes, has an appointment letter dated 5 October 2007.
His appointment is terminable by either him or the Company on six months notice.
During the year, the fees payable to Mr Hughes were reviewed by the Remuneration Committee with reference to market data on remuneration of chairmen in comparable companies from Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys remuneration advisors, and the search firms who tendered to assist the Company with the recruitment of a Non-Executive Director: and with reference to the time commitment of Mr Hughes on the Companys business.
Following this review, and having taken account of that market data, the Remuneration Committee increased the fees payable to Mr Hughes from 120,000 to 145,000 with effect from 1 January 2010.
As well as bringing Mr Hughes fees in line with levels in comparative companies, this reflects the growth and success of the Company and Mr Hughes key role in these.
Table 1 Remuneration audited Directors remuneration in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009 was as follows: Basic Annual Benefits 2009 2008 1 salary fees bonus in kind Pension Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executives Michael Tobin 420 436 16 59 931 475 Brian McArthur-Muscroft 255 265 10 36 566 312 Non-Executives John Hughes 120 120 100 Simon Batey 50 50 44 John OReilly 43 43 40 Robert Morse Ian Nolan resigned 23 December 2009 Sergei Riabtsov resigned 5 November 2009 Total 888 701 26 95 1,710 971 1 In accordance with the Groups remuneration policy detailed on page 40, the first 30% of the bonus is payable in cash with the balance being paid in cash and restricted shares.
The annual basic salaries and fees of the Directors with effect from 1 January 2010 are as follows: 000 John Hughes 145.0 Michael Tobin 475.0 Brian McArthur-Muscroft 265.0 Simon Batey 52.5 John OReilly 45.0 Robert Morse Total 982.5 1 TCY ar09 back.
These options are not subject to performance conditions, other than continued employment, for the reasons set out in the explanation of that plan.
2 Options granted under the Telecity Group PSP.
The performance conditions attaching to these options are set out in the description of that plan.
3 Options granted under the approved appendix to the Telecity Group PSP.
4 Performance Share awards awarded under the Telecity Group PSP.
The performance conditions attaching to these awards are set out in the description of that plan.
These share awards were valued at 143p per share as set out in note 27 to the accounts.
The highest, lowest and year end prices for the Companys shares for 2009 were 3.85, 1.56 and 3.83 respectively.
Total shareholder return The graph below shows the TSR for the Company compared with the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts and the FTSE All Share since IPO.
The Company is a member of these indices, which are therefore considered to be the most appropriate comparators.
0.8 0.7 Telecity Group plc 0.6 FTSE 250 FTSE All Share 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 Fees from external appointments Michael Tobin received and retained fees in the year ended 31 December 2009 in respect of his non-executive directorships of two companies unconnected with the Groups business totalling nil 2008: 13,000.
On behalf of the Board John OReilly Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 9 February 2010 1 TCY ar09 back.
