Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder, Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is comprised to exercise independent I am pleased to present the report by the Remuneration Committee on judgement and consists only of independent non-executive directors.
The directors remuneration for 2009 and plans for 2010.
Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing and approving general compensation policies and setting compensation levels for As set out in the Chairman and Chief Executives statements, Autonomy executive officers.
The committee also administers incentive compensation had another record year in 2009 despite the difficult economic conditions plans.
For further details, a description of the terms of reference can be that affected the global economy, following on from an excellent 2008. found on page 25.
Against this background, remuneration policies for 2009 were set at the outset of 2009 and have now been set for 2010.
External advisers During the year, the committee relied on information contained in generally Whilst Autonomys financial and share price performance have been available reports from Towers Perrin and Hewitt.
Deloitte LLP also extraordinary, compensation policies have limited remuneration to one of supplied market data, advice on market practice and governance, the most modest packages in the FTSE 100.
The Board however performance analysis and advice on plan design and performance recognizes the value of ongoing discussions with shareholders on the measures.
Deloitte are also the company auditors and their advice in matter, and throughout 2009 we maintained an extensive dialog with relation to remuneration has been provided in compliance with the terms of shareholders regarding the most appropriate compensation for Autonomys reference of the Audit Committee and the Ethical Standards of the Auditing executive directors.
During 2009, the company conducted a wide ranging Practices Board.
and in-depth review of remuneration strategy for executive directors.
Meetings This report reflects compensation for 2009 and new changes which have The Remuneration Committee had one scheduled and a further two ad hoc come into place for 2010. meetings during the year, and acted by written consent.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the changes made are Overview of Remuneration Philosophy appropriate particularly in light of the companys performance and historical pay practices.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the remuneration policy detailed in this report is appropriate to enable Remuneration Policy Autonomy to recruit the people we need, and retain and motivate those The Remuneration Committee again reviewed remuneration and reward already with us at this critical time.
The Remuneration Committee arrangements for the companys executive directors in 2009.
Consistent considers that the individual elements of the remuneration package that will with the policies of the Combined Code, the companys policy for directors' apply in 2010 constitute an appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration is that packages are intended to attract, motivate and retain compensation.
directors of the highest calibre.
To maximise the effectiveness of the remuneration policy, careful consideration is given to aligning the As well as considering current arrangements, the Remuneration Committee remuneration package with shareholder interests and best practice.
continues to monitor how well incentive awards made in previous years align with the companys performance.
In this regard, the Committee is The aim is to target an appropriate level of remuneration in order to achieve confident that there has been and remains a strong link between the companys growth program but not detract from the goals of good performance and reward, which is evidence in results and share price corporate governance.
In setting total remuneration, the Remuneration Committee considers a The Remuneration Committee has appreciated the dialogue and feedback relevant group of comparators, selected on the basis of the role being from investors over the past years and will continue to take an active considered.
In 2009 the relevant reference point was deemed to be the interest in their views and the voting on the remuneration report.
As such, it broader FTSE 100 and practice amongst international sectoral peers.
hopes to receive your support at the AGM on 24 March 2010.
Historically and on a go-forward basis a high proportion of total remuneration has been and will be awarded through short term and long term performance related remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee believes that incorporating and setting appropriate performance measures and targets in the package is paramount: this will be reflected in an Barry Ariko appropriate balance of operational and equity performance.
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 22 February 2010 Remuneration elsewhere within the company is taken into account when determining executive compensation.
The companys highest paid Contents employee earns a base salary approximately 4.65 times the base salary of The detail of this remuneration report is set out over the following sections: the average employee.
Page 27 Remuneration Committee Applicability Page 27 Overview of Remuneration Philosophy The remuneration policy applies to executive directors.
The Committee Page 28 Remuneration Elements believes that his significant equity investment in the company aligns his Page 29 Non-Executive Director Remuneration interests with shareholders.
Page 29 Service Contracts Page 30 Other Considerations Page 31 Audited Remuneration Information Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27 Remuneration Report includes: final salary pensions: executive director-specific pensions: tax Compliance advice: premium private health care: exit packages other than standard The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the notice periods: guaranteed bonuses: or director-specific equity plans.
requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
It also describes how the principles set out in the Combined Code have been applied in relation to Pensions the remuneration for the current and forthcoming financial years.
Deloitte During 2006 the company established a matching pension scheme LLP has audited the contents of the report to the extent required by the available to all U. K. employees with more than three years service.
scheme provides for the company to make a matching contribution to an individual employees pension, up to 3% of the individuals base salary only per annum.
Other than this generally available benefit, the directors Changes for 2010 do not have pension, retirement or similar entitlements.
For convenience, the table below sets out a summary of changes to the individual elements of the remuneration packages which will be effective for Bonuses 2010 for executive directors, discussed in more detail below.
In accordance with common practice amongst the companys peers, the company has performance-related bonus remuneration for certain Element Changes for 2010 executive directors.
Bonuses are intended to encourage the achievement Base salary........................ No change to the benchmarking policy of pre-defined annual financial objectives and to focus on the most Benefits.............................. No new benefits important measures of business success, while rewarding individuals for Pensions............................ No change to 3% capped matching pension outstanding performance.
In this way executive bonuses seek to align the Annual Cash Bonus........... No change to maximum bonus or interests of shareholders and those eligible.
performance conditions Deferred Bonus..................
Amended plan introduced for 2010 with Cash Bonus.
Executive directors are eligible for a bonus of 50% of base grant deferred subject to financial salary for basic achievement and up to an additional 50% of base salary for performance targets over performance against pre-agreed financial targets.
Deferred Shares Bonus...... New policy introduced for 2010 with vesting subject to performance over 3 years For 2009, the financial targets for executive directors for basic performance were i organic revenue growth of at least 15% and ii adjusted earnings Remuneration Elements per share growth of at least 30%, weighted 50% 50% for bonus purposes.
The main elements of executive remuneration packages historically and for Over-performance targets enabled an additional payout of 25% of base the expected future are: salary for exceeding adjusted earnings per share growth of 30%, and an additional 25% for adjusted earnings per share exceeding 103 cents.
For Base Salary 2009 each of the basic targets were achieved, as well as the first overThe Remuneration Committee considers the level of base salary for each performance target, resulting in a bonus entitlement of 75% of base salary executive director annually, taking into account the performance of the for each of Dr. Lynch and Mr. Hussain.
The targets were selected as individual and the companys strategies.
The Remuneration Committee objective, challenging growth targets designed to meet the growth also takes into account salaries in relevant comparable companies, specific objectives of the company.
In selecting the targets and levels of factors relating to the individual, internal relatives and overall affordability.
compensation the committee reviewed the plans of similarly situated In establishing individual salary levels, the Remuneration Committee is technology companies and analyst consensus forecasts.
conscious that it should pay no more than is necessary to retain and motivate the executive, while ensuring business objectives are fulfilled.
For 2010, the Board has adopted a new deferred bonus There is no automatic adjustment in respect of inflation.
Executive policy for executive directors.
The Board believes that share ownership by directors base salaries are low relative to similarly situated companies, with directors and staff aligns their personal interests with those of shareholders.
performance-based incentive compensation forming the most important factor in overall compensation.
Executive directors will be granted share options following achievement of pre-agreed financial targets, with vesting over subsequent years.
2009 salaries and benefits for the CEO and CFO were approved by the Executive directors will be eligible for a single annual grant of up to 150,000 Board in early 2009 based on performance during 2008, which included share options if the performance level is achieved.
Grants will vest from record operating profits adj.
up 91% from the prior year, and the fact that the date of award over the subsequent three years.
The first grant would executive director compensation was amongst the lowest of similarly sized be in January 2011 for achievement of 2010 targets.
No other share companies despite extraordinary performance.
options will be granted to executive directors in 2010 other than under this policy.
Given the companys significant growth, continued strong performance in 2009, market positioning against UK and US comparators, the lack of The Board sets reasonable individual grant limits.
As a result, at generous pension entitlements and increase in size of roles, base salary 31 December 2009, the Board collectively held options over less than 0.3% raises of 9% for 2010 were approved, raising the CEOs salary for 2010 to of outstanding equity, and options granted to the Board during 2009 totalled 343,350 2009: 315,000 and the CFOs salary to 309,015 2009: 0.03% of the companys outstanding shares at 31 December 2009.
The executive directors base salaries remain in the bottom Options granted to Board members during 2009 totalled less than 9% of all quartile of comparable companies.
share options outstanding at 31 December 2009.
Benefits Share options are always issued at market value.
The maximum number of Limited employment-related benefits are provided, consisting only of share options the company is permitted to grant is up to 10% of the company car or car allowance and basic private medical insurance.
There has been no departure from this policy during Remuneration relatively common amongst peers which is not provided 2009.
28 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Remuneration Report Deferred Shares Bonus.
For 2010 the Board has approved a new achievement of stretching performance targets and significant continuing performance share policy as part of the remuneration arrangements.
Any contribution to value creation.
After grant share option awards are then ordinary shares granted under the policy will be satisfied from the subject to vesting periods, with initial vesting after six or 12 months with the companys Employee Benefit Trust, thus will be non-dilutive to remainder vesting over a total of 2.5 to 3.5 years.
participated in this scheme in prior years but no longer do so.
The maximum annual award level for executive directors for 2010 is 100% The requirement for individuals to perform prior to granting options has of base salary.
Vesting of awards is based on meeting stretching been very effective in motivating performance, achieving targets and most performance targets over a three year performance period and, subject to importantly minimizing reward unconnected to an individuals performance.
meeting all relevant conditions, shares will normally be released to It enables the company to specifically tailor grants to an individuals role in participants as soon as possible following the third anniversary of the an efficient manner.
This method also keeps individuals continuously award.
incentivized as a grantee must remain employed to achieve full vesting of the options.
This method is also designed to ensure that individuals are not Performance is measured against total shareholder return versus the unjustly rewarded, which the Board believes is much more likely if large constituents of the FTSE 100 at date of grant.
This measure was chosen option grants are made with broad performance targets.
Under that as the most relevant index of which the company is a constituent.
method, an individual who was personally underperforming would undoubtedly be enriched if the company met its own broader performance For 2010, 25% of an award will vest for performance equal to the targets, without making any material contribution, particularly given the FTSE 100s median performance three years hence.
100% of the award companys rapid growth and share price appreciation.
will vest for performance placing the company in the top 75th percentile of the FTSE 100s performance three years hence.
The award will vest on a Service Contracts straight line basis for performance in between the median and the top quartile.
No shares will vest for performance below the median.
Policy The Combined Code and guidelines issued by institutional investors The Remuneration Committee will in all cases retain discretion to ensure recommend that notice periods of no more than one year be set as an that, as a condition for the vesting of shares, the underlying overall objective for executive directors and that any payments to a departing performance of the company has been satisfactory.
Vested awards will executive director should be determined having full regard to the duty of include adjustments for any dividends, share splits or similar corporate mitigation.
The company has achieved these objectives in all respects.
actions throughout the vesting period.
The companys policies prohibit long-fixed contracts and contractual If a participant resigns or is dismissed before shares are released, they will termination payments.
The company requires mutual notice periods for be forfeited.
The Remuneration Committee will have discretion to directors, but never in excess of 12 months.
All executive directors have accelerate vesting in compassionate circumstances.
In the event of a service contracts and all non-executive directors have appointment letters.
change of control during the performance period, performance will be All agreements provide for notice of 12 months or less, although do not measured at the latest possible date before the change of control to assess have a specified fixed term, and all permit garden leave up to the length of the proportion vesting based on performance.
The proportion of the award the notice period.
No other amounts are payable on termination.
All terms that may be released will then be time pro rated.
The Remuneration of appointment are subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 Committee will have discretion to disapply the impact of time pro rating and and the requirement to retire by rotation on the third anniversary of the to permit up to 100% of awards to vest on a change of control if, due to previous election.
exceptional business circumstances, returns to shareholders are considered to be at a superior level.
Executive Directors Contracts Details of directors service contracts are available on the companys Non-Executive Director Remuneration website.
No director is entitled to any automatic payment by virtue of early Fees for non-executive directors are determined taking into account termination of their contract or a change in control of the company.
Details expected time commitments and responsibilities, together with comparative of executive directors service contracts as at the date of this report are as market rates and benchmarking data.
follows: Non-executive directors are entitled to basic fees only.
For 2009 basic fees Mutual Notice were set at $80,500 or 50,000 per annum for all non-executive directors, Date Period except Mr. Gaunt whose fees were 35,000.
For 2010 basic fees for all Dr. Michael Lynch............................. 9 July 1998 6 months non-executive directors have been set at 60,000 or $96,000 per annum.
Sushovan Hussain............................ 27 June 2001 12 months For 2010, an additional fee of 20,000 is to be paid to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Board earns a fee of 120,000 per Each executive director is entitled to current benefits generally made annum, which will remain the same in 2010. available to all employees and any fees or remuneration he is entitled to as a director of Autonomy.
Payment of salary in lieu of notice is permitted on Non-executive directors do not participate in any bonus or .
For a fixed period following the termination of employment, related plans or any of the groups share incentive, option or pension each of Dr. Lynch and Mr. Hussain are prohibited from soliciting the schemes.
companys clients, customers and employees and from competing with the company in a similar geographic area.
Other Incentive Schemes Options form the core element of the companys deferred bonus program for the broader employee base, and are granted in small amounts from time-to-time to a very broad set of the companys employees after Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29 Remuneration Report Non-executive directors are entitled to be reimbursed for their reasonable Non-Executive Directors Contracts out-of-pocket expenses incurred in attending Board meetings and The non-executive directors serve under appointment letters with the committees thereof.
No directors are entitled to reimbursement of nonCompany.
All non-executive directors including the Chairman are business expenses, and all directors are subject to the companys global appointed under the Companys Articles of Association, which require that expense policies.
one third of all directors including executive directors shall retire at each AGM but that all directors must seek re-election at least every three years.
They are also subject to review by the Nominating Committee prior to being Other Considerations considered for election or re-election by shareholders.
External Directorships Details of non-executive directors appointment letters as at the date of this Executive directors may hold positions in other companies as nonreport are as follows: executive directors.
In 2009, Dr. Lynch was the only executive director with such a position.
The accompanying graph sets forth the total shareholder return for the last five years of a holding of the companys shares against the corresponding Either party may terminate the appointment upon three months notice or change in a hypothetical holding of shares in the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 payment of salary in lieu of notice.
These indexes represent broad equity market indexes in which the company, and similar companies, are constituent members.
2 Messrs. Ariko and Perles remuneration was earned in U. S. dollars but has been translated into sterling for this report.
See page 29 for the companys policy Share Options for executive director share options for 2010 performance.
Details of share options granted to executive directors, all granted based on performance, are set out below.
No directors' share options were cancelled or lapsed, or changed, during the year.
After the initial tranche vesting, additional tranches vest in equal quarterly instalments over the remainder of the vesting period.
2 First Exercise represents the date of the vesting of the initial tranche when an initial portion of the options become available for exercise.
3 Granted as a bonus following achievement of pre-determined acquisition integration targets.
4 The gain made on exercise of share options during the year was 1,204,753 2008: 1,811,947.
No non-executive directors hold share options, and the Board does not Directors and their Interests intend to grant any such options.
Options are granted to all employees in The beneficial interests of directors who served during 2009 and their the company on the same terms and at an exercise price equal to the fair connected persons in the ordinary shares of the company at the start and market value on the date of grant.
The fair market value of the companys end of the year were as follows: ordinary shares as quoted on the London Stock Exchange on 31 December 2009 the last trading day of the year was 15.03 per ordinary share, and 1 Jan 2009 31 Dec 2009 the range during the year ended 31 December 2009 was from 9.50 to Executive Directors 16.36.
1 Dr. Michael Lynch.......................... 20,019,846 20,028,546 Sushovan Hussain............................ 5,945 5,945 Directors Interests in Contracts None of the current directors had a material interest in any contract of Non-Executive Directors significance to which the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was Robert Webb, Chairman................... 8,109 a party during the financial year.
At year end no director had any non-beneficial interests in the shares of the company, other than Dr. Lynch as noted above.
Aggregate holdings above do not include employee share options granted to or held by the directors, which are discussed above.
By order of the Board, Andrew M. Kanter Company Secretary 22 February 2010 32 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Financials - Contents Page Page Statement of Directors Responsibilities......................... 34 Company Only Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Company Balance Sheet................................................ 65 Independent Auditors Report......................................... 35 Company Statement of Changes in Equity..................... 66 Consolidated Income Statement..................................... 36 Consolidated Balance Sheet........................................... 37 Company Statement of Comprehensive Income............ 66 Company Cash Flow Statement..................................... 67 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity............... 38 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income...... 38 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement................................ 39 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Company Only Financial Statements 1.
Investments in Subsidiary Undertakings................ 68 3.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty....................................... 47 4.
Post-Balance Sheet Events................................... 64 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33
