OVERVIEW BUSINESS FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BOARD EXECUTIVE CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW REVIEW COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 45 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Remuneration Report Introduction Mr A Thirunavukkarasu President Group HR advises the This Remuneration Report sets out the policies and practices Committee on the policies and practices being applied and adopted by the Company in respect of members of the Board acts as the secretary to the Committee.
He also provides input and provides details of their remuneration and share interests into discussions concerning the remuneration and bene ts for the year ended 31 March 2009. offered to the Executive Directors during the year.
The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance Ernst & Young LLP review and con rm the Companys TSR with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 performance in respect of the long-term and short-term the Regulations Schedule 7A, Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Young LLP also provide some tax and of the report sets out the information on which the auditors internal audit services to the group.
are required to report to the Companys members.
The Committee will engage independent consultants to advise Of necessity, the design of remuneration policy will evolve on particular aspects of Directors remuneration as from year to year in line with the Companys strategic needs.
During the year Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS Given the current unprecedented economic situation the which forms part of Hewitt Associates provided ad hoc advice Remuneration Committee will keep under close review on the Companys remuneration practices as they apply remuneration policy and incentive plans during the to Executive Directors.
HNBS provide no other services to forthcoming year.
The Remuneration Committee will continue the Company.
to give full consideration to the principles set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance in relation to The Committee met three times during the year and Directors remuneration and to the guidance of investor considered the following items of business: relation bodies.
A report of the President, Human Resources on developments in the human resource area.
The report has been approved by the Board and signed Salary and bonus arrangements of the Executive Directors.
on its behalf by the Chairman of the Remuneration Vesting of long term incentive plan awards.
A resolution to approve this report will be Grant of long term incentive plan awards to new proposed at the Companys Annual General Meeting to employees.
Remuneration package of the new Chief Executive of the Company.
Part I Unaudited Remuneration Committee the Committee Remuneration Policy The Board has established a Remuneration Committee in The Committees principal focus continues to be the attraction accordance with Provision B.
2.1 of the Combined Code to and retention of high-calibre executives, incentivising them to determine on behalf of the Board the Companys policy on the develop and implement the Groups strategy so as to enhance remuneration and terms of engagement of the Executive long-term shareholder value.
A consistent approach is used in Directors and certain senior executives.
determining the remuneration of key operational and financial heads within the Group the Senior Management Group.
During 200809 the Committee comprised: Both performance and  components Mr Naresh Chandra chairman of the remuneration packages for Executive Directors and the Mr Euan Macdonald Senior Management Group are therefore set by reference to Mr Aman Mehta local market practice in India.
Against this backdrop, the Boards overall objective is to have in place a remuneration All three members of the Committee served during the year policy that helps facilitate the development of managers from and are all independent Non-executive Directors.
within the existing operations, whilst offering remuneration packages that re ect the Groups position as a pre-eminent The Committees duties are set out in its terms of reference player in the Indian metals and mining sector in particular and which are available on request from the Company Secretary at the manufacturing sector as a whole.
the Companys registered of ce.
The Committees remit is primarily to determine and agree with the Board the The Board is mindful of the current downturn affecting global framework and broad policy for the remuneration of the markets and the Remuneration Committee will be considering Chairman and Executive Directors.
In so doing, the Committee this amongst other factors when establishing policy for the makes recommendations to the Board on: forthcoming year taking also into consideration the challenges the Companys overall policy on executive and senior being confronted, growth pipeline and cost of production management remuneration: COP trend.
The Board remains committed to the principle of remuneration packages for individual Executive Directors, retaining and incentivising managers by ensuring that the including basic salary, bonus, performance-based shortstructure of individual packages remains in line with market and long-term incentives, pensions and other bene ts: and practice, whilst also taking into account the performance of the design and operation of the Companys share incentive the individual and the Company as a whole.
Corporate Governance 46 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Remuneration Report continued The following factors are taken into consideration when setting remuneration levels for the Executive Directors and the Senior Management Group: Levels of remuneration throughout the Group.
Market practices prevailing in the countries in which executives work.
Market practices in the country in which we operate in the mining and manufacturing sectors in respect of operational management and in all sectors in respect of corporate and supporting functions, excluding certain very high-paying sectors, for example, financial services.
The Group attempts to align the interests of the Senior Management Group with those of the shareholders by linking share and cash incentives to corporate performance and challenges faced.
This is measured by reference to the key performance indicators as discussed in the Financial Review on pages 24 to 27.
Therefore, the remuneration packages of the Senior Management Group comprise: A salary for day-to-day performance of duties.
A performance bonus as an incentive to meet short-term goals these are set by reference to individual key result areas KRAs, personal qualities and the financial performance of the Company.
Awards under the long-term incentive plan LTIP, referred to below to incentivise long-term and strategic performance.
The short-term incentive plan STIP for members of the Senior Management Group below Board level within the overall LTIP Scheme.
B ene ts in kind in accordance with local market practices.
The Committee will oversee that the incentive structure for the Executive Directors and members of the Senior Management Group is in line with the market.
Given the India-focused approach taken to remuneration policy, it has not been felt necessary to appoint independent compensation and bene t consultants to advise the Committee on remuneration matters during the year save for the ad hoc advice described above.
Salaries, Pensions and Other Bene ts Salaries and Cost to Company The Executive Directors are based in India with the exception of Mr Anil Agarwal, who is UK-based, along with the majority of the Groups professional management.
Consequently their remuneration is set by reference to the prevailing rates within that market.
In addition, salaries for Executive Directors and members of the Senior Management Group are set by reference to those positions of comparable status, skill and responsibility in the metals and mining industries, and in the manufacturing and engineering industries more generally.
The basic remuneration of executives in India is referred to as cost to company CTC which represents an aggregate gure encompassing basic salary and allowances.
Mr Anil Agarwal has a service agreement with the Company under which he received a salary of 925,000 per annum.
Mr Navin Agarwal and Mr MS Mehta have service agreements with Sterlite Industries India Ltd Sterlite which have been augmented by letters of appointment to the Board of the Company.
During the year, Mr Agarwal was entitled to CTC of INR 45,200,007 per annum and Mr Mehta was entitled to CTC of INR 11,249,999 per annum pursuant to their Sterlite service agreements.
They were both entitled to bene ts in kind.
Under their letters of appointment to the Board of the Company, Mr Navin Agarwal and Mr MS Mehta were paid fees of 60,000 per annum, to re ect the amount of time they spend on Board business.
Mr Kaura, who retired as Chief Executive on 30 September 2008, had a service agreement with Sterlite under which he was entitled to CTC of INR 28,700,002 per annum.
He also received fees of 60,000 per annum for time spent on Board business.
Salaries are reviewed on an annual basis and changes will generally be implemented with effect from 1 April each year taking into account the period of service during the year.
The salary levels of Mr A Agarwal and Mr N Agarwal were agreed by the Remuneration Committee on 6 May 2009 and take effect from 1 April 2009.
Mr M Mehtas salary was agreed by the Committee on his appointment on 1 October 2008 and reviewed by the Remuneration Committee on 6 May 2009.
Details of salary levels for the Executive Directors are as follows: Vedanta Sterlite salary from salary from 1 April 2009 1 April 2009 Total Designation INR AK Agarwal Executive Chairman 1,017,500 1,017,500 N Agarwal Deputy Executive Chairman 60,000 49,720,000 684,377 MS Mehta Chief Executive appointed 1 October 2008 60,000 14,062,000 193,558 Note: Exchange rate of INR 72.65 to 1 as at 1 April 2009.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BOARD EXECUTIVE CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW REVIEW COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 47 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Pensions Operational Performance The Company does not provide post-retirement bene ts to Record production of 462,000 tonnes of aluminium, an Mr Anil Agarwal and this is re ected in the determination of his increase of 16.7% over the previous year.
The Indian-based Executive Record delivery of re ned zinc metal production of Directors are entitled to contribute to the Provident Fund, a 552,000 tonnes, up by 29.6% compared with the previous Gratuity and Superannuation Fund which provides pension year.
bene ts consistent with local market practices.
These are Achievement of highest ever production of saleable silver fide ned contribution pension arrangements.
Record production of saleable iron-ore produced at 15 plus Bene ts in Kind million tonnes, an increase of 28.5% over last year.
Mr Anil Agarwal is provided with a car and fuel in the UK for business use.
For his frequent business trips to India, Mr Projects Agarwal is also provided with a car and driver for business use All of the designated projects are in line with time and is entitled to the use of Company-owned furnished schedules and project milestones.
Project costs have been accommodation.
lowered taking the economic situation as an opportunity for growth.
Bene ts in kind provided to Indian-based senior executives are set in line with local market practices and include private Employee Share Schemes medical insurance, accident insurance, the use of a car and The Group aims to provide superior rewards for outstanding driver, and for certain individuals, the provision of performance and a high proportion of at risk remuneration accommodation, either in Company-owned or leased for Executive Directors.
Three types of employee share premises.
Mr Navin Agarwal is provided with leased schemes were approved by shareholders on Listing.
The Board accommodation and Mr M S Mehta is entitled to a housing has no intention at present to introduce any further share loan subsidy.
Mr Navin Agarwal was also reimbursed club schemes.
The Vedanta Resources Share Reward Plan was adopted solely Performance Bonus for the purpose of rewarding employees who had contributed The Company operates a performance bonus scheme to the Companys development and growth over the period providing the Executive Directors and the Senior Management leading up to the Companys Listing in December 2003.
No Group with an opportunity to earn a cash amount based on further awards have been made under that plan nor are any the achievement of stretching performance targets.
The planned in the future.
bonus targets are reviewed by the Committee at the beginning of the financial year over which performance will be Similarly, it is not intended that options will be granted in the measured.
foreseeable future under the Vedanta Resources Share Option Plan, which was adopted on Listing to provide maximum The maximum bonus payable to the Executive Directors is exibility in the design of incentive arrangements over the 100% of annual base salary, whilst for other members of the long term.
Senior Management Group, the maximum bonus payable is 50% of CTC.
In respect of Mr Navin Agarwal and Mr MS Mehta Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP salary means the aggregate of Vedanta salary together with The Company operates a Long-Term Incentive Plan, launched CTC payable by Sterlite.
in 2004, for Executive Directors and senior management.
Since its inception, the LTIP has been used to support the Boards Performance conditions are attached to all bonus objective of incentivising and developing the potential within arrangements, which are set by reference to individual KRAs, the wider management group.
Each year the aim has been to personal quality measures and the financial performance broaden the constituency of employees eligible to participate indicators of the Group.
The majority of KRA targets are linked in the LTIP so as to increase the alignment of interests between to the Groups vision and business plan of respective shareholders and the management population.
However, certain KRAs monitor performance in respect of softer issues, or enablers, for example, people It is the Committees intention that the LTIP will continue to be management, thus allowing a more rounded approach to be operated for these purposes and in the way described below taken to incentivisation.
For the year ended 31 March 2009, the payment of the annual The vesting of LTIP awards is subject to measurement of the bonus was dependent on the following business operational Companys performance in terms of Total Shareholder Return performance and projects, including green eld and expansion TSR, being the movement in the Companys share price plus projects.
In addition it was linked to strategic initiatives in reinvested dividends, compared over a three-year period from mergers and acquisitions and effective stakeholder the date of grant with the performance of the companies management which resulted in recognition and achievement constituting the FTSE Worldwide Mining Index excluding of awards in CSR, safety, quality, business excellence and best precious metals.
Corporate Governance 48 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Remuneration Report continued The Remuneration Committee has adopted a speci c list of three years.
In addition, unlike the LTIP, the bene ts under companies as a comparator group for the purpose of these schemes are not linked to relative TSR performance with facilitating periodic assessments of the Companys TSR a peer group of companies.
Considering the multiplicity of performance.
It has selected companies which it believes are factors including vesting term duration, performance relative the Groups peers and competitors and therefore will provide a to peer group companies and the relatively modest maximum meaningful comparison against which to measure the Groups award level under the LTIP of 100% of the aggregate of annual performance.
The full list of companies against whose salary and CTC fees compared to other companies of a similar performance Vedantas TSR is measured is as follows the size that determine bene ts under LTIP, the Remuneration Comparator Group : Committee believes that 40% vesting for median performance 1.
Anglo American is warranted, and the minimum required to maintain the LTIPs 2.
Grupo Mexico role as a strong motivational and retention tool for the high 3.
Vale continue to monitor the appropriateness of this approach.
Rio Tinto The maximum value of shares that can be conditionally 7.
BHP Billiton awarded to an Executive Director in a year is 100% of the 8.
Hindalco aggregate of annual salary and CTC fees.
Teck Cominco of shares that can be awarded to members of the Senior 10.
Alcoa Management Group is calculated by reference to the xed salary CTC and share-based remuneration consistent with There have been no changes to the Comparator Group during local market practice.
Nominations for awards under the LTIP are made by the chief The extent to which an award vests will depend on the executive of cers of each operating company and heads of Companys TSR ranking against the Comparator Group at the large independent projects based on guidelines issued by the end of the three-year performance period.
Individuals are assessed and categorised by reference to the importance of their roles to the relevant business unit, The vesting schedule is shown in the table below, with past performance and future potential.
The size of awards is straight-line vesting in between the points shown rounded linked to xed salary, being a factor of CTC, based on how the down to the nearest whole share.
individual has been assessed in accordance with the Groups % of guidelines.
Vedantas TSR Performance against the Comparator Group award vesting Below median nil During the year, the Remuneration Committee resolved to At median 40 award a total of 11,200 LTIP options to three individuals hired At or above upper quartile 100 through the Companys global recruitment programme.
The performance condition is measured by taking the Details of the awards held by the Executive Directors as at Companys TSR over the four weeks immediately preceding 31 March 2009 are shown in the table of Directors Long Term the date of grant and over the four weeks immediately Incentive Awards on page 51. preceding the end of the three-year performance period and comparing its performance with that of the Comparator Vesting of LTIP Awards Group.
The information to enable this calculation to be carried Ernst & Young reviewed the Companys TSR performance out on behalf of the Committee will be provided by the relative to the Comparator Group for the 36-month Companys advisers.
The Committee considers that this performance period for LTIP awards made in 2006.
Ernst & performance condition provides a reasonable alignment of the Young reported that TSR performance of Vedanta over the interests of the Executive Directors and the Senior three year period was at the median ranking triggering a 40% Management Group with those of the shareholders.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee approved the vesting of 718,180 ordinary shares under the LTIP As the majority of the Groups employees are domiciled in awards to 872 eligible employees.
This included the vesting of India, the Remuneration Committee has to be cognisant of awards to the Executive Directors as follows: Indian market practice in order to be sure of retaining high calibre employees in that market.
The most common form of Mr Anil Agarwal 17,000 shares executive share option scheme in India is one in which a certain Mr Navin Agarwal 13,360 shares percentage of options vest every year, and the total options Mr Kuldip Kaura 26,225 shares Mr MS Mehta 8,000 shares vest fully 100% over three to four years.
However, the full extent of awards under the Vedanta LTIP is known only after OVERVIEW BUSINESS FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BOARD EXECUTIVE CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW REVIEW COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 49 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Total Shareholder Return Performance Graph Mr Navin Agarwal has a letter of appointment with Vedanta The graph below shows the TSR performance of the Company which may be terminated by giving six months notice.
Mr in comparison with that of the Comparator Group for the Navin Agarwals appointment as a Director of Sterlite expires period from 31 March 2004 to 31 March 2009.
To provide on 31 July 2013, being the expiry date speci ed in his Sterlite more detail, the graph presents performance on a daily basis contract, with a notice period of three months.
His rather than using year end dates as required by the appointment as a Director of Vedanta is a rolling contract.
Mr Mahendra Mehta has a service contract with Sterlite and a letter of appointment with Vedanta which may be terminated Vedanta versus Comparator Group Average rebased to 100 31 March 2004 to 31 March 2009 by giving three months notice.
There is a payment in lieu of 900 notice clause in his contract allowing for the payment of compensation in the case of early termination.
600 300 It is the Groups policy that no Directors service contract should be terminable on more than 12 months notice.
0 Mar 04 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 Mar 09 Vedanta Comparator group Copies of all Executive Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of the Non-executive Directors are Relative Importance of Fixed and Variable Pay available for inspection during normal business hours at the A signi cant proportion of the remuneration of the Executive registered of ce of the Company.
The chart below demonstrates the balance of xed and variable pay in these Individual Service Contract Details circumstances for the Executive Directors assuming: i Date of contract Notice period Outstanding term maximum bonuses were paid and full vesting of LTIP awards AK Agarwal 27 November 2003 6 months Rolling notice period Stretch Performance : and ii actual bonus payouts as N Agarwal Vedanta 4 May 2005 6 months Rolling notice period earned in 2009 and median vesting of LTIP awards Target N Agarwal Sterlite 1 August 2003 3 months Until 31 July 2013 Performance.
Mr MS Mehta 1 October 2008 3 months Until 30 September 2011 1 Relative split of salary bonus and LTIP for Executive Directors N Chandra 1 June 2007 3 months Until 31 May 2009 at target and stretch performance A Mehta 24 November 2004 3 months Until 23 November 2009 Stretch performance ER Macdonald 23 March 2005 3 months Until 22 March 2010 Former Director Target performance Mr K Kaura Vedanta 4 May 2005 3 months Not applicable retired 20 40 60 80 100 30 September 2008 1 Salary Bonus LTIP Vesting Mr K Kaura Sterlite 20 October 2004 3 months Not applicable 1 Share price growth is ignored.
retired 30 September 2008 Executive Directors Service Contracts 1 Mr Chandra is engaged on a contract renewable every 12 months.
Mr Anil Agarwal and Mr Navin Agarwal are employed under contracts of employment with the Company which are not for Non-executive Directors Fees a xed term but which may be terminated by not less than six The Board is responsible for setting Non-executive Directors months notice.
Provision is made in Mr Agarwals contract for fees.
In 200708 the Board commissioned HNBS to undertake payment to be made in lieu of notice on termination which is a peer group review of current fee levels.
HNBSs review took equal to basic salary and costs to the Company for providing account of the Groups complexity, the signi cant travel and certain bene ts during the notice period or part thereof.
time commitments required for attending Board and other meetings in India and the UK and the risk pro le of the Company.
Accordingly, Non-executive Directors fees were revised as follows: 1.
Committee membership fee, up to 5,000.
Committee chairmanship fee, up to 20,000.
Corporate Governance 50 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Remuneration Report continued It is envisaged that a similar review will be carried out for the Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares forthcoming year, 200910.
The interests of the Directors which are bene cial unless otherwise stated in ordinary shares at 31 March 2009 were: In the case of fees paid in respect of membership and Ordinary chairmanship of Board committees, the fee depends on the shares at 1 April scope of the committee concerned.
2008 Ordinary or at date of shares at appointment 31 March Chairmans Salary if later 2009 The Chairmans salary is approved by the Board without the 1 2 AK Agarwal 154,157,921 158,876,393 Chairman being present on the recommendation of the AK Agarwal 55,400 55,440 Committee.
1 N Agarwal 200,000 213,360 MS Mehta 31,521 31,521 Non-executive Directors Letters of Appointment N Chandra A Mehta The Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment ER Macdonald which may be terminated by either party by giving three months notice.
The Non-executive Directors letters of 1 Mr Anil Agarwal and Mr Navin Agarwal each held nominee shares in direct and indirect appointment set out the time requirements expected of them subsidiaries.
These holdings are non-bene cial.
2 Mr Agarwals holding of 158,876,393 shares are registered in the name of Volcan Investments in the performance of their duties.
Non-executive Directors Limited which is a company owned by a family trust.
are normally expected to spend at least 20 days per year on Company business.
There is no provision in the letters of There have been no changes in the bene cial shareholdings of appointment of the Non-executive Directors for the Directors between the end of the financial year and the compensation to be paid in the event of early termination.
External Appointments The Boards policy on external appointments is that an Executive Director may, with the prior approval of the Board, accept one appointment external to the Group other than any appointment to related parties or Volcan in the case of Messrs Anil Agarwal and Navin Agarwal as a Non-executive Director of a publicly listed company anywhere and that the fees for any such appointment may be retained by the individual.
Currently, none of the Executive Directors holds any such outside appointments, other than Messrs Anil Agarwal and Navin Agarwal who hold directorships of related parties or Volcan.
Equity Dilution Resulting from Employee Share Schemes The dilution limits set out in the rules of the Employee Share Schemes in December 2003 allow up to an aggregate of 10% of the Companys issued share capital to be issued or issuable pursuant to awards under any of the Companys employee share schemes over a period of 10 years.
Up to 5% of the Companys issued share capital may be used for the Companys discretionary schemes over a 10-year period.
Shares issued or issuable pursuant to awards made under the Reward Plan are not counted for these purposes.
Currently, 0.68% 2008: 1.33% of the Companys issued share capital is issuable in respect of outstanding awards under the LTIP.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BOARD EXECUTIVE CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW REVIEW COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 51 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Part II Audited Directors Remuneration Year Ended 31 March 2009 The following table sets out an analysis of the pre-tax remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2009 for individual Directors who held of ce in the Company during this period.
All amounts are in UK pounds sterling although payments in India under service contracts with Sterlite are paid in Indian rupees.
Directors Remuneration Annual performance Bene ts 2009 2008 UK salary CTC fees Pensions bonus in kind Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors 1 AK Agarwal 925 278 51 1,254 1,326 2 N Agarwal 60 498 91 172 76 897 861 3 M S Mehta 30 66 4 44 4 148 Former Executive Director 4 5 KK Kaura 30 217 52 159 22 480 541 Non-executive Directors N Chandra 95 95 95 A Mehta 85 85 85 ER Macdonald 72 72 72 Former Nonexecutive Director 6 SK Tamotia 82 82 82 Total 1,379 781 147 653 153 3,113 3,062 Notes: 1 Mr Anil Agarwals bene ts in kind include provision of a car and fuel in the UK and India for business purposes.
2 Mr Navin Agarwals bene ts in kind include use of leased accommodation in India club membership and use of car and driver.
3 Mr MS Mehta was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2008.
His bene ts in kind include use of car and housing loan subsidy.
Mr Kaura retired from the Board on 30 September 2008.
His bene ts in kind included use of leased accommodation in India and use of car and driver.
5 Payments to former Director This sum is in respect of an assignment completion bonus that Mr Kaura was entitled to under his employment contract with Sterlite for successful completion and discharge of his role and responsibilities as Managing Director of Sterlite.
This was a contractual arrangement in place before he was appointed to the Board of Vedanta.
The Committee reviewed Mr Kauras achievements and considered that he had ful lled his contractual obligations.
Accordingly, the Committee approved a bonus payment of INR 12,500,000 to Mr Kaura in February 2009.
6 Dr Tamotia resigned from the Board on 6 March 2009.
2 On his retirement in September 2008, Mr Kaura was entitled to the vesting of a proportion of his LTIP awards based on TSR performance to that date pro-rated for time elapsed since the award.
Accordingly, of the February 2006 award, 100% vested pro-rated for 32 months, and of the November 2007 award 88% vested pro-rated for 10 months.
3 TSR performance over three years was measured as at median ranking therefore 40% of the 2006 LTIP awards vested.
The mid-market price of the shares at 31 March 2009 was 675.5 pence and from 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2009, the share price varied between 387.75 pence and 2,780.00 pence.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Naresh Chandra Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 6 May 2009
