48 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for setting the appropriate remuneration for the Group Chairman, the executive Directors and the Group Secretary, and recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for senior management, being the two layers of management below Chief Executive level.
It also oversees the operation of the Groups executive share incentive plans.
A copy of the Committees Terms of Reference is available on the Companys website, www.
The current members of the Committee are all the Non-executive Directors, namely Jeff Hewitt, Peter Hill, Jan Oosterveld, Barry Perry and John Sussens, who also chairs the Committee.
Messrs Hewitt, Oosterveld, Perry and Sussens served as members of the Committee throughout 2009.
Mr Hill joined the Committee upon his appointment to the Board on 1 February 2010.
All the members of the Committee are deemed to be independent.
The Group Secretary acts as Committee Secretary.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are invited to attend Committee meetings as appropriate but do not participate in discussions of their own remuneration.
In formulating its policies and deciding individual remuneration levels, the Committee was advised during the year by the Chief Executive, the Group Secretary and by the external advisers Kepler Associates KA and Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS, the broker JPMorgan Cazenove JPMC and the law firm Clifford Chance LLP CC.
KA and HNBS were appointed directly by the Committee and JPMC and CC were appointed by the Company on the Committees behalf.
HNBS and CC provide other limited advice to the Company, in their specialist areas of share award valuation and share schemes respectively.
JPMC acts as one of the Companys two Brokers.
KA provides no other services to the Company.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Committee has established employment and remuneration practices for the Companys executive Directors aimed at fostering a high performance culture.
In formulating remuneration policy, the Committee has regard to the international scale and nature of the Groups operations and takes into consideration guidelines issued by its leading shareholders and bodies such as the Institutional Shareholders Committee, the Association of British Insurers ABI and the National Association of Pension Funds.
The remuneration packages of the executive Directors are benchmarked against their peers and have been designed to ensure that a substantial proportion of remuneration is linked to performance.
The Committee considers the efficacy of the Groups executive remuneration policy each year and commissions more formal reviews as it considers appropriate.
The last such comprehensive review was undertaken in 2006.
In December 2009 the Remuneration Committee commissioned KA to benchmark Messrs Butterworths and Salmons remuneration against that of their peers within two FTSE 250 comparator groups, the first focusing on sector comparators and the second on companies of similar size.
This review indicated that for all three criteria base salary, total cash and total remuneration Messrs Butterworths and Salmons remuneration was below median in comparison to their peers.
The Remuneration Committee took this into account in determining that Mr Salmons maximum bonus potential should be increased to 150% with effect from 1 January 2010.
The Committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions of other Group employees when determining Directors remuneration.
DIALOGUE WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company is committed to open and transparent dialogue with its shareholders on remuneration matters.
The Committee consults with key institutional shareholders and various representative bodies about any proposed changes to the incentive arrangements of the Companys executive Directors.
ANNUAL EMOLUMENTS Base salaries are normally set by reference to market rates in the relevant country for jobs of similar complexity and responsibility.
The salaries of the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are benchmarked against salaries within two FTSE 250 comparator groups, the first focusing on sector comparators and the second on companies of similar size.
Mr Wanecqs remuneration is benchmarked against global roles of a similar size and complexity based in Continental Europe.
The salaries of the executive Directors are normally reviewed on 1 January each year.
In response to market conditions the executive Directors received no salary increase in 2009.
With effect from 1 January 2010, Messrs Butterworth, Salmon and Wanecq were awarded salary increases of 2% in line with increases paid to other Group executives.
Benefits in kind receivable by Messrs Butterworth and Salmon principally comprise company car allowances, life assurance benefits and medical insurance.
These benefits are similar to those provided to other company executives in the UK.
Mr Wanecq also receives these benefits in addition to a relocation package that includes housing and schooling costs.
PERFORMANCE-RELATED REMUNERATION The remuneration programme for executive Directors is structured such that variable, performance-related remuneration delivered by the annual incentive and the LTIP potentially represents more than half of total remuneration.
co. uk ANNUAL INCENTIVE In line with the Groups other senior executives, the executive Directors are eligible to receive an annual incentive calculated as a percentage of base salary and based on achievement against specified financial targets.
Each year the Committee establishes the financial performance criteria for the forthcoming year.
These criteria are set by reference to the Groups financial budget and prior year actual financial results.
The Committee considers that attainment of these targets is important in the context of achievement of the Groups longer-term strategic goals.
The annual incentive has a threshold level of performance below which no award is paid, a target level at which executive Directors are entitled to a payment equal to 50% of their base salary and a maximum performance level at which a maximum award worth 100% of base salary is earned.
From 2010, the maximum bonus opportunity for Mr Salmon will increase to 150% of salary with the target remaining at 50% of salary.
Any payout over 100% of salary would be payable in deferred shares under the rules of Cooksons Deferred Bonus Plan.
T hese shares would vest on the third anniversary of their award date although they will lapse if Mr Salmon ceases employment with the Company before the end of the three-year period other than in certain circumstances permitted under the Plan Rules, such as retirement.
To provide a clawback mechanism, Mr Salmon has agreed to forfeit any deferred share award should any material accounts misstatement become evident during the vesting period which adversely impacts the reported financial results for the year to which the award relates.
For the financial year 2009, Messrs Butterworths and Salmons annual incentives were based on Group headline earnings performance, the calculation of which is shown in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
For 2009, the Groups performance was above the headline earnings threshold and slightly below the target and so annual bonuses equivalent to 43.7% of base salary will be paid to Messrs Butterworth and Salmon for 2009.
These annual bonus payments are reported in the Directors remuneration table on page 53.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that for 2010 Messrs Butterworths and Salmons annual incentives will again be based on Group headline earnings.
Mr Wanecqs annual incentive will be based 50% on Group headline earnings and 50% on profit targets adjusted for cash flow performance for the Ceramics division.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP AND OTHER SHARE INCENTIVE PLANS The LTIP rewards executives for delivering superior Total Shareholder Return TSR, defined as the increase in the value of a share, including re-invested dividends, and from 2007 onwards headline earnings per share Headline EPS growth over a set period of time, and as such is intended to align executive remuneration with shareholders interests.
The LTIP has two elements: firstly, executive Directors are eligible to receive a conditional annual allocation of shares worth up to 100% of base salary Performance Shares : secondly, executive Directors can elect to invest all or part of their annual incentive in ordinary shares of the Company Investment Shares in return for which they receive a conditional allocation of shares worth up to 2.25 times the pre-tax equivalent of the annual incentive so invested Matching Share Award.
The rules of the LTIP were amended with shareholder approval on 17 February 2009, so that shares purchased by executives under a rights issue could also be designated as Investment Shares and qualify for a Matching Share Award.
The value of the Matching Share Award relating to shares purchased under a rights issue is, as with any other Matching Share Award, increased as if the executive had invested a pre-tax amount in shares under the rights issue.
In respect of the 2009 LTIP awards, the Committee specified that the total annual maximum value of Investment Shares however sourced that could qualify for a Matching Share Award was subject to an overall limit of 100% of base salary.
Subject to this limit, shares purchased by executives using any annual incentive could continue to count as Investment Shares and qualify for a Matching Share Award in addition to any shares purchased in the rights issue which were designated as Investment Shares.
In addition to the overall limit, the Committee decided in consultation with major shareholders that only 63% of shares taken up under the 2009 rights issue could be designated as Investment Shares under the LTIP in recognition of the significantly discounted price of the shares issued in the rights issue.
Finally, the Committee further specified that the executive Directors are required to retain all of the Cookson ordinary shares that they held at the time of the rights issue for a period of 36 months after the rights issue in order for a Matching Share Award based on shares purchased in the rights issue to be able to vest.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to award participants the dividends that would have been paid on the number of shares that vest in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the award date and the date of vesting.
Performance Shares and Matching Share Awards vest after three years, with the proportion of shares vesting being based on the Companys performance against specified performance conditions.
Vesting of 50% of shares awarded is based upon the Groups three-year TSR performance relative to that of the companies of its comparator group, the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts, and 50% on headline EPS the calculation of which is shown in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements growth over a three-year period.
The two measures operate independently.
50 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Vesting of 50% of Performance Shares and Matching Share Awards under the 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 LTIP awards is based on TSR performance in accordance with the following schedule: TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Performance Shares Matching Shares Vesting Ratio excluding Investment Trusts Vesting Percentage Matching Shares: Investment Shares Below Median 0% 0 Median 12.5% 0.25 : 1 Upper Quintile top 20% 50% 1.125 : 1 Between Median and Upper Quintile Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25 : 1 and 1.125 : 1 Vesting of 50% of Performance Shares and Matching Share Awards under the 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 LTIP awards is based on headline EPS growth, as compared with the compound annual growth in the Retail Prices Index RPI, in accordance with the following schedule: Annual Compound Headline Performance Shares Matching Shares Vesting Ratio EPS Growth above RPI Vesting Percentage Matching Shares: Investment Shares Below 3% 0% 0 3% 12.5% 0.25 : 1 At or above 10% 50% 1.125 : 1 Between 3% and 10% Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25 : 1 and 1.125 : 1 Matching Share Awards will only vest if the Investment Shares originally purchased have been retained.
The performance period applicable to the awards made in 2007 ended on 31 December 2009.
The Companys TSR performance during this three-year performance period was assessed against the comparator group and it was determined that the Companys performance was below median.
In addition, the Companys EPS growth over RPI was assessed as being below 3% during this period.
Accordingly, the 2007 LTIP awards will lapse on the vesting date of 3 April 2010.
The Committee obtains independent external advice to assess whether the Company has met the TSR performance condition at the end of the relevant performance period and to confirm that the companies which make up the index and the measurement of the Companys performance are both in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
Measurement of the Groups TSR takes place over a performance period commencing on the first day of Cooksons financial year in which the award is granted.
TSR is measured as the percentage increase in a return index for Cookson and each comparator company between the beginning and end of the performance period.
The return index at the beginning of the performance period is the average of the return index on each weekday in the three-month period prior to the start of the performance period.
The same three-month averaging method is used to ascertain the return index at the end of the performance period.
The companies are then ranked, in descending order, according to their TSR.
If Cookson is ranked at or above the median of the comparator group then a proportion of the awards is eligible to vest.
The Groups headline EPS is calculated on a consistent basis and the Committee has the discretion to adjust for exceptional items as it deems appropriate.
Growth in headline EPS is annualised percentage growth over the performance period comparing headline EPS for the base year i. e. the calendar year prior to the award date with the final year i. e. the calendar year three years after the base year expressed as compound annual growth, above the compound annual growth in RPI.
During 2009, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the methodology to be used in adjusting the performance conditions applicable to the Companys outstanding LTIP awards to take account of the Companys rights issue.
It concluded that the most appropriate method of calculating TSR, reflecting the actual behaviour of the majority of shareholders, and aligned with the executive Directors own investments, is to assume that all available rights under the Companys rights issue, and any rights issues carried out by members of the comparator Group during the performance period, were taken up in full by eligible shareholders.
It also concluded that the most appropriate method for calculating the EPS performance conditions is to assume that the rights issue had taken place, on a pro forma basis, at the beginning of the base year, including an adjustment for notional interest in the base year.
Prior to the vesting of any award, the Committee has also stipulated that, as an additional hurdle, it needs to be satisfied that vesting has been justified by the underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period.
co. uk Allocations were made under the LTIP to the executive Directors in March 2009, as shown on page 54.
In accordance with the rules of the Plan, Messrs Butterworth and Salmon designated shares purchased under the 2009 rights issue as Investment Shares under the Matching Share element of the LTIP and therefore qualified for Matching Share Awards in respect of these shares.
Mr Butterworth also chose to use his Annual Incentive award to purchase Investment Shares and received additional Matching Shares in respect of this investment.
In addition to the executive Directors, senior divisional and corporate executives are allocated Performance Shares under the LTIP and members of the Groups Executive Committee and senior corporate executives are also given the opportunity to participate in the Matching Share element.
In prior years, the Group operated a number of other executive and all-employee share plans under which certain awards and options are outstanding, although none of the current executive Directors holds options or awards under these plans.
Under the executive share option schemes the Company granted share options, with an option exercise price fixed by reference to the market price prevailing at the time of grant, the exercise of which were subject to an EPS performance condition.
The last executive share option grant was made in 2003 and the Company does not intend to make any further grants under the schemes.
The Company operated an all-employee share plan, the UK Sharesave Plan which was closed to new participants in 2004.
Further details of the awards and options outstanding under these share plans are given in note 40 to the consolidated financial statements and note 15 to the Company financial statements.
In 2007, the Company implemented a Deferred Bonus Plan in place of the LTIP for certain corporate managers.
Under this plan, executives receive an allocation of deferred shares to the value of a percentage of their annual bonus.
These shares, which will be sourced from existing shares, vest after three years, although an executives allocation may lapse if he or she ceases employment in certain circumstances before the end of the three-year period.
Following the Companys rights issue in 2009, the Directors approved adjustments to the number of shares granted under all outstanding options or awards and to any associated exercise price.
Adjustments were made in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan and where required by plan rules, adjustments were made with the prior approval of HMRC and or the Companys Auditor.
Under the rules of the LTIP and executive share option schemes, the Company has the discretion to satisfy the majority of awards either by the transfer of existing shares or by the allotment of newly issued shares.
The decision on how to satisfy awards is taken by the Board, which considers the most prudent and appropriate sourcing arrangement for the Company.
Option exercises under the UK Sharesave plan are satisfied by the allotment of newly issued shares.
Any awards that vest under the Deferred Bonus Plan will be met from the transfer of existing shares.
As at 31 December 2009, 246,963 shares were held in the Companys employee share ownership trust ESOP.
During the Companys rights issue in 2009, the Trustee of the ESOP sold sufficient of the rights in the market to fund the take-up of the balance of the rights.
The Trustee of the ESOP purchases shares in the open market as required, to meet liabilities for the provision of existing shares to satisfy options and awards that vest.
The rules of each of Cooksons share-based incentive schemes, including the LTIP, and the pre-existing share option and Sharesave Plans, contain limitations on the total of newly issued shares that can be awarded under the share-based incentive schemes in accordance with the ABI guidelines.
In the last ten years less than 1% of the Companys current issued share capital has been allotted to settle obligations arising from the exercise of executive share incentives and thus the Company remains well within the limits.
Details of the awards outstanding under the Companys share plans as at 31 December 2009 and where granted as options, the associated exercise prices are given in note 40.2 to the consolidated financial statements and note 15 to the Company financial statements.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH The graph below compares Cooksons TSR over the last five years with the return on the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
This index has been chosen as the comparator index to reflect the size, international scope and diversity of the Groups businesses and is the comparator group against which Cooksons performance is measured for the TSR performance condition of the LTIP.
Total Shareholder Return 250 200 150 100 Cookson Group plc 50 FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts 0 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09 This Graph shows the value, by 31 December 2009 of 100 invested in Cookson Group plc on 31 December 2004 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Cookson TSR has been adjusted to take into account the impact of the rights issue.
52 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES The Remuneration Committee encourages executive Directors to build and hold a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to at least one times salary.
To this end, executive Directors will normally only be able to sell a maximum of up to 50% measured as the value after tax of any Performance Shares or Matching Share Awards vesting under the LTIP, until this criterion has been met.
DIRECTORS CONTRACTS Executive Directors The following paragraphs summarise the main conditions of the contracts of the Directors: In line with the policy of the Committee, Messrs Butterworth and Salmon have UK service contracts which have 12 month unexpired terms and provide for 12 months notice being given.
Mr Salmons contract was dated 14 June 2004 and Mr Butterworths 25 May 2005.
Each contract provides for compensation to be paid on early termination by the Company based on one times salary, pension allowance and benefits payable half in a lump sum and the balance in six separate monthly instalments commencing six months after leaving, mitigated by any salary earned from any new paid occupation.
Mr Wanecq is contracted to Vesuvius Group NV SA, under a Belgian services agreement dated 1 March 2006 for which his remuneration is in the form of fees.
His appointment to the Cookson Group plc Board is subject to a separate appointment agreement for which no fee is payable.
His termination arrangements are structured to effectively mirror Messrs Butterworths and Salmons arrangements including the effective notice period and mitigation obligations.
None of the executive Directors contracts contain any change of control provisions and they all contain a duty to mitigate should the Director find an alternative paid occupation in any period during which the Company must otherwise pay compensation on early termination.
Other than as described for Mr Wanecq, no Directors had any material interest in a contract of significance other than service agreements with the Company or any subsidiary company during the year.
Non-executive Directors In accordance with the Code, each Non-executive Director is appointed for an initial fixed term of three years subject to their election at the Companys first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter, subject to approval of the Board and their re-election at the appropriate Annual General Meeting, they are appointed for a further three-year term.
Annual General Date of Date of Meeting at which Unexpired appointment retirement term expires notice period Non-executive Directors Jeff Hewitt 01 06 05 2012 Not required Peter Hill 01 02 10 2013 Not required Jan Oosterveld 15 06 04 2013 Not required Barry Perry 01 01 02 2011 Not required John Sussens 01 05 04 2013 Not required The Group Chairman, Mr Beeston, was appointed on 1 April 2003 for a fixed period which was due to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2008.
This was extended in 2007 and was due to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2011.
However, Mr Beeston has waived his entitlement to any notice from the Company.
Non-executive Directors are not entitled to receive compensation for loss of office at any time.
All Directors are subject to retirement, and election or re-election, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board sets the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors after considering the role and responsibilities of each Director and the practice of other companies.
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in Board discussions on their own remuneration.
The Chairmans remuneration is set by the Remuneration Committee with reference to the fees of non-executive chairmen within two FTSE 250 comparator groups, the first focusing on sector comparators and the second on companies of similar size.
co. uk EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Executive Directors are permitted to hold positions as non-executive directors of other companies provided that these do not lead to conflicts of interest.
The Board sanctions each such request on a case-by-case basis.
Fees received are retained by the executive Director concerned.
In 2009, Mr Salmon received fees of 64,000 for his role as Senior independent non-executive director of United Utilities Group plc.
PENSION ARRANGEMENTS Messrs Butterworth and Salmon are not entitled to participate in any of the Groups pension arrangements.
In accordance with their contracts they received pension allowances of 25% and 30% respectively of their base salaries in 2009 to enable them to make their own pension provision.
Mr Butterworths pension allowance in 2009 amounted to 78,375 2008: 78,375, whilst Mr Salmons pension allowance in 2009 amounted to 154,980 2008: 154,980.
Following a review of market practice, the Remuneration Committee increased Mr Butterworths pension allowance to 30% of base salary with effect from 1 January 2010.
Mr Wanecq is entitled to a pension allowance of 30% of his base salary.
He currently participates in two Group pension arrangements, the US 401K Savings Plan and a Belgian defined contribution plan operated by external providers to the maximum level.
He receives the remainder of his pension allowance in the form of a salary supplement.
This information is audited by the Companys Auditor.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The following table details the remuneration payable to each Director in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009, together with comparative totals in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008.
Benefits in kind comprise mainly the assessed benefits arising from the contractual payments of medical insurance, life assurance and company car allowances.
The Annual Incentive bonuses awarded to Messrs Butterworth and Salmon for 2009 were based on the Groups achievement of an above-Threshold level of performance in respect of Group Headline Earnings for 2009.
Details of the annual fees payable to Non-executive Directors can be found on page 43.
In 2009 Mr Wanecq received total remuneration of e864,502, representing a base salary of e605,000, benefits in kind of e78,002 and an annual incentive of e181,500.
Mr Wanecq also received a pension salary supplement of e 151,250.
In addition to the above, ex gratia pensions of 11,879 2008: 11,375 were paid to former Directors in 2009.
The information in the above table is audited by the Companys Auditor.
54 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LTIP ALLOCATIONS Details of the executive Directors allocations of shares under the LTIP are shown in the table below: Total Total share share Performallocations Market allocations ance Matching outprice of outstanding Shares Shares Shares standing shares as at allocated allocated lapsed as at on day 31 Dec during during during 31 Dec before 1 1,2 1,2 1,2 1 1 Director, grant date and 2008 the year the year the year 2009 award Performance Vesting type of award No.
The interests and market prices shown have been adjusted for the rights issue which took effect in March 2009, and where applicable for the subsequent consolidation of the Companys ordinary shares which took effect on 15 May 2009, when every ten ordinary 10p shares held by shareholders at the close of business on 14 May 2009 were exchanged for one new 1 ordinary share.
In 2009 Messrs Butterworth and Salmon received maximum allocations of Performance Shares worth one times their respective base salaries.
Under the Matching Share award element of the LTIP they received allocations of Matching Shares in respect of the shares they took up under the 2009 Company rights issue.
Mr Salmon took up rights over 288,874 shares under the rights issue and Mr Butterworth rights over 109,258 shares, and as a result they received allocations of 694,033 and 262,499 Matching Shares respectively as adjusted following the subsequent share consolidation.
In addition, Mr Butterworth used his 2008 Annual Incentive payment to purchase 15,513 shares, and received an additional Matching Share allocation of 58,781 Matching Shares as adjusted following the subsequent share consolidation.
These Matching Share awards had a maximum potential value on the date of award equivalent to circa two and half times Mr Salmons base salary and two times Mr Butterworths base salary.
The allocations were made to Messrs Butterworth and Salmon on 25 March 2009 and the allocations were calculated based upon the closing mid-market price of Cooksons shares on the day before the awards were made.
Cooksons mid-market closing price on 25 March 2009 was 175p as adjusted for the subsequent share consolidation.
The mid-market closing price of Cooksons shares ranged between 112.5p and 467.5p during 2009 as adjusted for the rights issue and share consolidation and on 31 December 2009 was 422.2p.
The performance criteria which apply to the vesting of share allocations under the LTIP are summarised on pages 49 to 51.
The performance period for the LTIP awards made in 2006 ended on 31 December 2008.
The performance condition applicable to these awards was based on the Companys TSR performance during the three year performance period to 31 December 2008, relative to the companies of its comparator group, the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts.
The Companys performance was determined to be below median.
Accordingly, the 2006 LTIP awards lapsed on the third anniversary of their award date.
The performance period for the LTIP awards made in 2007 ended on 31 December 2009.
The Companys TSR performance during the three-year performance period was assessed against the comparator Group and it was determined that the Companys performance was below median.
Accordingly the 2007 LTIP awards will not vest on 3 April 2010 and the awards will lapse.
co. uk DIRECTORS INTERESTS The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2009 were as shown below.
Each Director took up their full entitlement under the terms of the Companys rights issue in March 2009.
31 Dec 31 Dec 1 2009 2008 1 Ordinary shares 1 Ordinary shares Ordinary shares No.
The interests shown have been adjusted for the consolidation of the Companys ordinary shares which took effect on 15 May 2009, when every ten ordinary 10p shares held by shareholders at the close of business on 14 May 2009 were exchanged for one new 1 ordinary share.
As at 2 March 2010, Mr Wanecq holds 362,307 shares and Mr Hill does not hold any shares.
There were no changes to the interests of the other Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company in the period from 1 January 2010 to 2 March 2010.
Full details of Directors shareholdings and share allocations are given in the Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to inspection at the Companys registered office during business hours.
None of the Directors, nor their spouses nor minor children, held non-beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company during the year.
On behalf of the Board John G Sussens Chairman, Remuneration Committee 2 March 2010
