58 Governance Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in to provide appropriate incentives to To ensure that we offer the best available accordance with the Directors enhance performance and align the incentive to enhance shareholder value, Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 interests of the executive directors with the Committee continued to assess the the Regulations.
As required by the those of shareholders.
It also reviews the following constituent elements of the Regulations, a resolution to approve the salaries and benefits of members of the remuneration of the executive directors report will be proposed at the Companys Group Executive, the company secretary and review the same for members of the AGM at which the Financial Statements and other senior managers reporting Group Executive and senior managers: will be presented for approval.
directly to the chief executive.
The terms of reference of the Committee are A. salary and other benefits This report has been divided into separate available for review on the Companys B. performance bonus payments sections for unaudited and audited website or on request from the C. long-term share incentives information.
The Regulations require the company secretary.
D. all-employee share plan independent auditors to report to our E. retirement benefits.
shareholders on the audited information The Committee appointed, and continued section of this report and to state to use, Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS In determining remuneration, whether, in their opinion, that part of to provide advice on structuring executive consideration is given to reward levels the report has been properly prepared in remuneration packages and benchmarking.
throughout the organisation as well as accordance with the Companies Act 1985 HNBS does not provide any other services in the external employment market.
as amended by the Regulations.
However, Hewitt Associates, The Committee aims to reward all of which HNBS is a specialist division, employees fairly based on their role, provided standalone benchmarking their performance and salary levels in the Unaudited information services to the Companys Indian wider market.
The remuneration policy Remuneration committee subsidiary during the year.
The Committee described below will be kept under Our Remuneration Committee at the is satisfied that this does not compromise review, but the current intention is that year-end comprised Sir Peter Williams, HNBSs independence.
In determining the policy should continue to apply in Lord Boyce, James Morley, Raj Rajagopal remuneration, the Committee also future financial years.
Fiona Clutterbuck joined consults the chief executive, Keith Clarke, the committee on 15 June 2009.
Sir Peter the Group HR director, Alun Griffiths, and, A.
Salary and other benefits Williams, Lord Boyce, Fiona Clutterbuck, where required, the company secretary, The Committee reviews the salaries of James Morley and Raj Rajagopal are Richard Webster, about its proposals.
No the executive directors, members of the independent non-executive directors.
director or senior manager participates in Group Executive and senior managers Ed Wallis, our chairman, was considered discussions about their own remuneration.
annually to ensure they remain independent on his appointment as a appropriate and competitive.
The Committee is chaired by Remuneration policy range of data is utilised, together with Sir Peter Williams.
Details of attendance The objectives of the Groups assistance from HNBS as appropriate.
at Committee meetings can be found in remuneration policy are to attract, retain Table 1 of the Corporate Governance and incentivise management with the Keith Clarke, Robert MacLeod and Report page 52. appropriate professional, managerial and Alun Griffiths have salaries of 425,000, technological expertise to realise our 315,000 and 200,000 respectively.
The Committee reviews the remuneration business objectives and to align their Mr MacLeods salary was increased from policy for the chairman and executive interests with those of our shareholders.
300,000 with effect from 1 October 2008 directors and, more generally, the We continue to strive to link total following a detailed appraisal of market remuneration policy of the Group.
It remuneration to performance and thereby data.
The Groups annual pay review, determines the level of remuneration, create a performance culture.
A significant which is usually implemented on 1 April incentives and other benefits, proportion of the executive directors each year, has been postponed until compensation payments and terms of total remuneration is linked to October 2009.
In line with the approach employment of the chairman and each performance through participation taken for all Group employees, the salaries executive director.
The Committee seeks in the performance bonus plan and of the executive directors were not long-term share incentives.
However, in light WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Governance 59 of the current economic circumstances, executive director and concluded that C. Long-term share incentives each of Keith Clarke, Robert MacLeod any changes should be deferred in light The Atkins Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Alun Griffiths requested that 10% of of the current economic circumstances.
seeks to motivate and retain the executive their salaries for the financial year ending Executive directors will be eligible to directors, members of the Group 31 March 2010 be waived.
This waiver receive a bonus of 90% of their salary for Executive and other senior executives.
does not affect the underlying reference on-target performance for the year ending Under the LTIP, awards to executive salary used to calculate related benefits 31 March 2010.
The Committee may also directors and members of the Group such as bonus, long-term share incentives increase the bonus to pay out up to 100% Executive are made on the following basis: and pension entitlement.
of salary in exceptional circumstances.
50% of the award is subject to the Heath Drewett, who was appointed as Executive directors are required to take Companys total shareholder return director on 15 June 2009 and will replace one-third of any bonus in the form of TSR performance relative to the Mr MacLeod as Group finance director an award over shares under the terms constituents of the FTSE 250 Index when he leaves the Group, will receive of the Atkins Deferred Bonus Plan DBP.
excluding investment trusts on the date an annual salary of 250,000.
The DBP is designed to aid retention, with of award.
Full vesting is achieved if the the award being subject to forfeiture on Company ranks in the upper quartile, Other benefits for executive directors resignation within three years of grant.
30% for a median ranking, and pro rata include a car allowance or a car and There are no further performance vesting for intermediate performance.
payment of its operating expenses, conditions once the award has been No vesting occurs for a ranking life assurance and entitlement to made.
Dividends declared on DBP awards below median.
a non-contributory private are rolled up and delivered to participants 50% of the award is subject to the healthcare scheme.
in cash on release of the award to align Groups real growth in normalised their interests further with those of earnings per share EPS over the B.
Members of the Group performance period.
An increase in Executive directors were eligible to receive Executive must also take one-third of any EPS of more than 10% per annum bonuses of up to 90% of their salary for bonus they receive via an award made above the UK retail price index RPI achieving Group financial and individual under the Atkins Retention Bonus Plan RBP, over the three-year performance period performance targets in respect of the year which is similar to the DBP but which enables the shares to vest in full: an ended 31 March 2009.
The Committee allows for a flexible vesting period.
In prior increase of 4% per annum above the has the discretion to increase the bonus years the vesting period for RBP awards UK RPI will result in 30% of the shares to pay out up to 100% of salary in has been set at two years but for bonuses vesting: no shares vest for an increase exceptional circumstances.
Following earned in relation to the financial year of less than 4% per annum above the the performance of the Group, the ending 31 March 2010 this has been set UK RPI.
Pro rata vesting operates for Committee has resolved to pay a bonus at three years.
The DBP expires in early growth in EPS between 4% and 10% of 100% of salary to each of Keith Clarke 2010 and the Committee will replace above the UK RPI.
Alun Griffiths will it with a deferred bonus plan on receive a bonus of 90% of salary.
Awards made to other participants may be subject solely to the EPS condition as The targets against which bonuses are Bonus awards are non-pensionable set out above.
paid include challenging financial and non-contractual.
objectives and consideration of Group Dividends declared on shares subject to performance in respect of health and The Companys bonus and long-term LTIP awards are rolled up and delivered safety and staff retention.
The Committee incentive plans seek to provide executive to executives in cash on release of the conducted a thorough review of directors and members of the Group underlying award.
remuneration during the financial year Executive with the opportunity to increase to determine what changes, if any, should overall remuneration levels to the upper be made to both the levels and structure quartile for comparable businesses but of the total reward package of each only following demanding performance targets being achieved.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 60 Governance Remuneration Report Continued The Committee believes that EPS growth The executive directors are encouraged External appointments provides a closer line of sight between to hold shares in the Company either The Board recognises the benefit which management performance and reward directly or through the DBP equivalent we can obtain if our executive directors than can be achieved via TSR alone.
to the level of their annual salary, based serve as non-executive directors of other on the value of such shares at the time companies.
Subject to review in each case, This year the Committee intends to make of their acquisition or award, or their the Boards general policy is that each LTIP awards at around 100% of salary current market value from time to time, executive director may accept one to the executive directors following the whichever is the higher.
non-executive directorship with another announcement of the Groups preliminary FTSE 350 company from which any fees results.
As in previous years, the number D. All-employee share plan received may be retained.
Robert of shares subject to the awards will be The Companys Share Incentive Plan, as MacLeod is currently a non-executive based on a share price on 1 April 2009. approved by HM Revenue and Customs, director of Aggreko plc and retains The upper limit in the LTIP is 150% of continues to be offered to all eligible the fees payable, receiving 41,000 in salary.
The Committee has considered the UK employees, including the executive respect of their financial year ended impact of the 7.0m tax benefit from the directors.
The Plan, which was approved 31 December 2008. purchase of prior year consortium relief by shareholders in 2000, will be presented from the Metronet companies on EPS to shareholders for re-approval at the Directors contracts for the year ended 31 March 2009.
Chairman and non-executive directors concluded that the non-trading nature The Chairman and non-executive directors of this benefit is not a fair reflection of E. Retirement benefits have letters of appointment stating their underlying earnings.
Excluding this tax Pension and retirement benefits provided annual fee and that their appointment is benefit, normalised basic EPS for the to the executive directors are comparable initially for a term of three years subject year ended 31 March 2009 was 76.4p.
to those provided by other companies.
to satisfactory performance and their This lower EPS figure has been used to re-election at forthcoming AGMs.
Their calculate the vesting of the awards made Performance graph appointment may be terminated with under the LTIP in 2006 and will also be The Companys performance, measured six months written notice at any time.
used as the base for the 2009 awards.
by TSR, is compared with the performance Table 1 page 62 summarises the dates of of the FTSE 250 Index excluding appointment and most recent re-election A full summary of the performance investment trusts over the past five years.
dates for the chairman and each of the conditions attaching to existing share plan This is considered the most appropriate non-executive directors.
awards can be found in note 32 to the index against which to measure Financial Statements page 109. performance as the Company has been Copies of the letters of appointment will a member of the FTSE 250 for the whole be available for inspection prior to and The LTIP allows for the use of market of the five-year period.
This is illustrated during the AGM and are also available for purchase, new issue and treasury shares in Fig.
1 page 62. inspection at the Companys registered to satisfy awards.
To date all vested LTIP office during normal business hours.
awards have been satisfied using shares TSR is defined as the return shareholders purchased in the market.
The Committee would receive if they held a notional The remuneration of the chairman is reviews the method by which outstanding number of shares and received dividends determined by the Committee.
The awards under the LTIP and other on those shares over a period of time.
remuneration of the non-executive discretionary share plans are satisfied Assuming dividends are reinvested into directors is determined by the Board on on a regular basis.
the Companys shares, it measures the the recommendation of the executive percentage growth in the Companys directors within the limits set out in the share price together with the value of Articles of Association and on the basis any dividends paid.
of independent advice and the level of fees paid to non-executive directors of comparator companies.
The annual fees are specific to each director reflecting their individual commitments to the Board and various Board committees.
The current fee structure is shown in Table 2 page 62.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Governance 61 The chairman and the non-executive Robert MacLeod and Heath Drewett During the year the Company made directors are not eligible for pensions, also have a contractual entitlement to payments of 26,000 2008: 10,980 share incentives, annual bonus or any receive an annual amount equivalent to under Mr Griffiths defined contribution similar payments other than out-of-pocket 25% of their salaries towards their arrangement and a further 1,792 expenses in connection with the pension benefits.
During the year the 2008: nil in respect of National performance of their duties.
The chairman Company made payments of 76,875 Insurance contributions the Company and the non-executive directors do not 2008: 68,250 into Mr MacLeods would have paid had he not chosen participate in any meeting at which personal pension plan.
to contribute 14,000 to his defined discussions in respect of matters relating contribution pension via salary exchange.
to their own position take place.
Alun Griffiths is 54 and was a member of a final salary arrangement until All executive directors receive life Executive directors 30 September 2007 when the scheme assurance cover equal to four times The service agreements of the executive was closed to future accrual.
directors are summarised in Table 3 date he had completed 21.5 years page 62. pensionable service.
Since 1 October 2007 Directors interests he has participated in a defined The interests of the directors and their In the event of unsatisfactory contribution arrangement on the same families in the ordinary shares of 0.5p performance, the notice period for the terms as other UK-based staff.
The value each in the Company as at 31 March 2009 executive directors is reduced to three of his accrued benefit under the final are shown in Table 5 page 63. months.
Their service agreements salary arrangement at the start of the include a duty to mitigate loss where the financial year was 63,953 per annum Details of directors share options and agreement is terminated and any payment with a transfer value of the total accrued long-term incentives as at 31 March 2009 in lieu of notice may be reduced to take benefit of 703,523.
His accrued pension are given in Table 6 page 64. account of such mitigation.
No service increased by 6,036 per annum during agreement provides for predetermined the year.
This sum will continue to increase Directors share options and amounts of compensation in the event in line with increases in Mr Griffiths long-term incentives of early termination of service contracts.
The increase in the transfer value of Directors emoluments disclosed in Table 4 his accrued benefits was 182,897.
As at page 63 do not include any amounts for The service agreements will terminate 31 March 2009, the value of his accrued the value of options to acquire ordinary when the director reaches the retirement benefit was 69,989 per annum, with a shares in the Company granted to or age as determined by the Board and are transfer value of the total accrued benefit held by the directors, which are set out otherwise terminable on giving 12 months of 886,420.
Transfer values before in Table 6 page 64. notice.
Copies of each directors service 1 October 2008 have been calculated in agreement will be available for inspection accordance with version 8.1 of guidance For each share under option that had not prior to and during the AGM and are note GN11 issued by the actuarial expired at the end of the financial year, also available for inspection at the profession.
The Trustees of the Atkins the mid-market price on 31 March 2009 Companys registered office during normal Pension Plan the Plan revised the transfer was 494.50p and the highest and lowest business hours.
value basis with effect from this date in mid market prices during the financial year compliance with new legislation.
the defined contribution arrangement he Audited information receives an annual amount equivalent to Approval Directors emoluments 13% of his salary.
This consists of a 10% Approved by the Board and signed on its The remuneration of each director, ordinary employer contribution and a behalf by excluding long-term incentive awards transitional employer contribution of 3% and pensions, during the year ended payable until 30 September 2010.
The 31 March 2009 is laid out in Table 4 transitional contribution is payable to Sir Peter Williams page 63. all members of the Plan affected by the Chairman of the Remuneration closure of their defined benefit accrual.
Committee Retirement benefits 16 June 2009 Keith Clarke has a contractual entitlement to receive an amount equivalent to 25% of his salary as a pension payment.
He elected to receive this entitlement as an additional emolument and this is reported in Table 4 page 63.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 62 Governance Remuneration Report Continued Fig.
Joanne Curin will stand for re-appointment and Lord Boyce will stand for re-election at the AGM to be held on 9 September 2009.
James Morley will retire from the Board on 30 June 2009.
Table 2 1 Chairman fee 200,000 Basic annual fee 37,000 Committee chair annual fee 6,000 2 Committee annual fee 3,000 1.
Mr. Wallis has requested that 10% of his fees for the financial year to 31 March 2010 be waived, reducing the annual fee payable for the year ending 31 March 2010 to 180,000.
No fee is paid in respect of membership of the Nomination Committee.
Table 3 Effective Notice Unexpired Contract date of period term of date contract months contract 1 Keith Clarke 12 09 03 01 10 03 12 Rolling contract 2 Heath Drewett 17 04 09 15 06 09 12 Rolling contract Alun Griffiths 18 04 07 13 03 07 12 Rolling contract 3 Robert MacLeod 14 07 04 23 06 04 12 to 19 06 09 1.
Keith Clarke will stand for re-election at the AGM to be held on 9 September 2009.
Heath Drewett will stand for re-appointment at the AGM to be held on 9 September 2009.
Robert MacLeod has announced his intention to leave the Company on 19 June 2009.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Governance 63 Table 4 Salary Other Other Non-cash 4 5 fees Bonus benefits payments emoluments Total Total 7 000 000 000 000 000 2009 2008 Executive directors 2 6 Keith Clarke 425 283 14 106 142 970 944 3 Alun Griffiths 200 120 14 60 394 361 Robert MacLeod 308 210 14 532 588 Total executive directors 933 613 42 106 202 1,896 1,893 Chairman and non-executive directors Lord Boyce 40 40 36 1 Fiona Clutterbuck 30 30 Joanne Curin 5 5 n a James Morley 46 46 42 Raj Rajagopal 29 29 n a Ed Wallis 200 12 212 197 Sir Peter Williams 46 46 42 Total chairman and non-executive directors 396 12 408 317 1.
Fiona Clutterbuck elected to waive her fee in favour of a charity of her choice until 30 June 2008.
Keith Clarke sacrificed 8,173 of the 425,000 in exchange for additional holiday entitlement under the Groups flexible leave policy.
14,500 of the 200,000 was contributed voluntarily by Alun Griffiths into his defined contribution pension via salary exchange.
Other benefits include such items as company cars or allowances, fuel and medical insurance.
Keith Clarke is entitled to a pension payment equivalent to 25% of his salary.
He elected to receive this entitlement as a taxable payment.
Keith Clarke, Alun Griffiths and Robert MacLeod are required to take a minimum of one-third of their bonus payment in the form of a right to acquire shares under the DBP.
Awards of shares to these values will be made following the announcement of the preliminary results pursuant to the rules of the DBP to Keith Clarke and Alun Griffiths.
These awards will be disclosed in the directors share options and long-term incentives table in the 2010 remuneration report.
Robert MacLeod, who will leave the Company around the time the grant is made, will not receive an award and will therefore lose one-third of the total value of his bonus.
Changes in directors interests of Keith Clarke, Alun Griffiths and Robert MacLeod between 31 March and 16 June 2009 relate to shares acquired via the Atkins Share Incentive Plan.
Plan names: LTIP Atkins Long-Term Incentive Plan DBP Atkins Deferred Bonus Plan 2.
Subject to performance criteria described in note 32 to the Financial Statements.
F ollowing the exceptional write down in relation to Metronet, the Companys EPS for the financial year ended 31 March 2007 was 56.8p.
The consequence of this was that any LTIP awards made in 2007 would never be capable of vesting.
Pursuant to the rules of the plan, the Remuneration Committee considered that it was appropriate to remove profit in respect of discontinued operations and the exceptional loss in respect of Metronet and that the EPS for the financial year ending immediately before the commencement of the performance period for the 2007 awards be deemed to be 57.3p.
All awards granted under the terms of the LTIP and the DBP are structured as options, for which the exercise price is nil.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
