qxp:Layout 1 18 3 10 01:13 Page 116 | 116 GOVERNANCE Remuneration report Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Willy Strothotte and its other Xstratas remuneration policy is designed to attract, retain and motivate members are David Rough and Paul Hazen, all of whom are non-executive the highly talented individuals needed to deliver its business strategy and directors.
The Board recognises that Willy Strothotte is not an independent to maximise shareholder value creation.
non-executive director as dened by the Combined Code, but regards his The policy for 2010 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent years, will membership as critical to the workings of the Remuneration Committee be framed around the following principles for the Executive Committee: due to his extensive knowledge and experience of the global mining resources sector.
remuneration arrangements will be designed to support Xstratas business strategy and to align it with the interests of Xstratas shareholders: The Remuneration Committee reviews the structure of remuneration for executive directors on an ongoing basis and has responsibility for the total reward levels will be set at appropriate levels to reect the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of specic remuneration competitive global market in which Xstrata operates, with the intention packages for executive directors and other members of the Executive of positioning such levels within the top quartile for outstanding Committee, including salaries, pension rights, bonuses, long-term performance when measured against a peer group of global mining incentives, benets in kind and any compensation payments.
The companies and the FTSE 100: Remuneration Committee is also aware of the level and structure of a high proportion of the remuneration should be at risk, with remuneration for senior management and advises on any major changes performance-related remuneration making up at least 50% of the in employee remuneration and benefit structures throughout the Group, total potential remuneration for Executive Committee members: and including the continuous review of incentive schemes to ensure that they remain appropriate for the Group.
The Remuneration Committee commits performance-related payments will be subject to the satisfaction of to bringing independent thought and scrutiny to the development and demanding and stretching performance targets over the short and long review process of the Group with regards to remuneration.
These performance targets will be set in the context of the prospects of the Group, the prevailing economic environment in which The Remuneration Committee met twice during 2009.
The Chairman will it operates and the relative performance of comparator companies.
continue to ensure that the Group maintains contact, as necessary, with its principal shareholders about remuneration.
The purpose and function The Remuneration Committee considers that a successful remuneration of the Remuneration Committee in the future will not differ materially policy needs to be sufciently exible to take account of future changes in from this year and its terms of reference can be found on the Groups the business environment and in remuneration practices.
the remuneration policy and the Remuneration Committees terms of reference for subsequent years will be reviewed annually in the light of The remuneration of non-executive directors, other than the Chairman, matters such as changes to corporate governance best practice or changes will be considered by the Chairman and the Chief Executive and will to accounting standards or business practices among peer group mining not be considered by the Remuneration Committee.
This will help to ensure that the policy continues to provide remuneration will be determined by the Remuneration Committee Xstrata with a competitive reward strategy.
In doing so, the Remuneration while the Chairman is absent.
Committee will take into account the UK Listing Rules, the provisions of The Chief Executive attends the Remuneration Committee meetings by the Combined Code and associated guidance attached to it, as well as the invitation and assists the Remuneration Committee in its considerations, guidance provided by a number of institutional investor representative except when issues relating to his own remuneration are discussed.
The bodies on the design of performance-related remuneration.
Remuneration Committee is provided with national and international The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that Xstratas pay and pay data collected from external survey providers.
employment conditions for both executive directors and non-Board During the year, Hay Group provided independent advice to the employees around the world are appropriate to the various markets in Remuneration Committee on executive remuneration.
The Group also which Xstrata operates.
The Remuneration Committee does not consider uses the Hay Group to provide market information on UK trends in a ratio comparison between executive directors and non-Board employees salaries and incentives for positions below Executive Committee level.
to be a useful way of assessing the fairness and equitability of Xstratas The Hay Group provided no other services to the Group during 2009. remuneration practices.
The vastly different costs of living in the countries where Xstrata has operations and uctuations in exchange rates mean any such trend analysis or comparisons with competitors would not be appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee continues to operate a policy under which there is a balance of a coherent overall reward philosophy with empowerment of business units and an emphasis on incentivising exceptional performance through arrangements appropriate to the level of responsibility.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p116-127 vAW.
qxp:Layout 1 18 3 10 01:13 Page 117 117 eligible to participate in the Bonus Plan and the Xstrata plc Long Term Elements of rem uneration Incentive Plan the LTIP.
The total remuneration package for executive directors comprises the following principal elements: Bonus Plan Executive directors and the other members of the Executive Committee base salary are eligible to participate in the Executive Committee Bonus Plan the annual bonus plan including deferred element Bonus Plan.
The Bonus Plan focuses on the achievement of annual objectives which align the short-term financial performance of the Group participation in long-term incentive arrangements with the creation of shareholder value.
subsisting rights under the Xstrata AG share scheme in relation to The bonus is based on Xstratas operational performance as measured by individual arrangements as detailed below return on equity and net profit.
Specic targets for return on equity and pension the proportion of net profits that make up the bonus pool are determined each year by the Remuneration Committee.
Before the pool is nalised, other benets including housing allowance where essential for the the Remuneration Committee actively considers whether the pool is performance of duties, permanent health, life and private medical appropriate in light of the other key financial and non-financial drivers insurance, provision of short-term interest-free loans to assist with of future shareholder value, including the Companys health and safety, funding double taxation liabilities where appropriate and, in the case of environmental and social performance.
the Chief Executive, limited private use of the Companys leased aircraft.
Bonuses awarded in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008 were Base salary signicantly lower than in previous periods in recognition that shareholder The base salary of the executive directors is subject to annual review by returns were lower due to the fall in the share price and despite high the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee reviews profitability that would ordinarily have determined a larger bonus pool external pay data to ensure that the levels of remuneration remain and higher individual bonus awards.
In 2009, the bonus pool was again competitive and appropriate in light of the Groups policy.
The reduced from the level indicated by the Groups robust return on equity Remuneration Committee is also responsible for ensuring that the and net profits, although bonus awards rose compared to 2008 in line positioning of the Groups remuneration relative to its peers does not with improved shareholder returns.
The Remuneration Committee will result in increases in remuneration without a corresponding increase continue to exercise active discretion and take a holistic view of in performance or responsibilities.
When setting base salaries, the performance on an annual basis.
Remuneration Committee also considers the impact on pension contributions and associated costs.
As disclosed in the 2008 remuneration The payment of any bonus under the Bonus Plan is subject to a hurdle report, during 2009 with effect from 1 January 2009, base salary rate for the financial years ending 31 December 2009 and 2010 it will increases for Mick Davis, Trevor Reid and Santiago Zaldumbide were be set such that the Groups return on equity will be at least equal to 4.8%, 5.6% and 4.1% respectively.
Respective base salaries, effective the Groups average cost of borrowing.
If this hurdle is not reached, from 1 January 2010, will be GBP1,350,000, GBP680,000 and the bonus pool will be zero.
The Remuneration Committee has the EUR1,000,000, representing increases of 3%, 3% and 3.1% respectively, discretion to vary the basis of calculation and the performance targets on salaries paid during 2009.
This is in line with the treatment of base for subsequent years.
salaries for other Group staff.
The amount of the bonus pool that is distributed in any one year, and the Santiago Zaldumbide provides his services to the Group under a relative proportions payable to each participant or, at the discretion of professional services agreement entered into between him and Asturiana the Remuneration Committee, to a trust for his her benefit will be at on 23 July 2007, pursuant to which Santiago Zaldumbide agreed to act the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Individual performance as Chairman and Chief Executive officer of Xstrata Zinc.
This agreement criteria have been agreed with each participant and include health, safety, replaced a similar agreement with Asturiana dated 29 January 1998, environmental, community, employee development, operational, financial which was terminated by agreement on 23 July 2007.
The current and other criteria.
Performance against these individual criteria will be agreement is in force from its date of signature 23 July 2007 and evaluated by the Remuneration Committee in determining individual continues indefinitely thereafter unless terminated by one of the parties allocations from the bonus pool.
giving the other written notice of no less than six months.
The annual The maximum bonus payable under the Bonus Plan for executive directors gross fee payable to Santiago Zaldumbide for the year ended is 300% of salary.
The highest level of bonus will only be available for 31 December 2009 was EUR970,000 including an amount in lieu truly outstanding performance.
Bonuses will be payable in up to three of any pension-related payment.
This annual fee is subject to review tranches, as follows: in line with the other executive directors.
the maximum bonus which any one participant is eligible to receive Santiago Zaldumbides appointment as a director of Xstrata is subject to in cash will be limited to 100% of the individuals base salary: the continuing existence of the above-referenced agreement between Santiago Zaldumbide and Asturiana.
Santiago Zaldumbide receives no any additional bonus up to a further 100% of base salary will be additional remuneration for his position as director of Xstrata plc but is deferred for a period of one year XS014 p116-127 vAW.
qxp:Layout 1 18 3 10 01:13 Page 118 | 118 GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued any remaining bonus up to the further maximum 100% of base salary liability will be eligible to be claimed as foreign tax credits resulting in a will be deferred for a period of two years tax repayment due from H M Revenue & Customs.
The terms of the loan agreement require prompt reimbursement of the loan amount on receipt The deferred elements take the form of either a conditional award of of such repayment.
H M Revenue & Customs have agreed to expedite Xstrata shares or the acquisition of Xstrata shares which are held repayment on processing the UK tax return submitted shortly after the restricted and subject to forfeiture.
The vesting of the conditional award Swiss tax is paid which will minimise the duration of any loan.
of Xstrata shares and the release of restrictions and forfeiture conditions attaching to restricted Xstrata shares is subject in each case to the Long-Term Incentive Arrangements executive director remaining in employment throughout the deferral All equity-based awards are subject to an overall limitation on the number period.
The number of conditional shares awarded is determined by of shares issued, transferred from treasury, or that remain issuable pursuant reference to the price at which concurrent awards under the LTIP are to awards of 10% within any ten year period after the listing date.
made and the number of restricted and forfeitable shares awarded is Added Value Incentive Plan determined by the number of shares acquired in the market on the day The Added Value Incentive Plan the AVP was designed to incentivise of award using the Deferred Bonus net of tax amount, with tax remitted the Chief Executive by providing a share of the long-term value he to the relevant authorities at that date to be reimbursed by the executive creates for shareholders over and above the value created by Xstratas director in the event of forfeiture of the award.
Deferred Bonus awards peer companies and to create alignment with shareholders by means of are not pensionable nor are they transferable except as determined by share ownership.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the Chief the Remuneration Committee and on such terms and to such persons Executive has a unique role in delivering value to shareholders through or categories of person as they specify.
Such transfers will normally only the efficient utilisation of Xstratas assets and by making value-enhancing be permitted where there will be no immediate realisation of economic acquisitions and divestments.
For this reason, membership of the AVP benefit by means of a sale to an unconnected third party.
was restricted to the Chief Executive.
There is no intention to use newly issued ordinary shares for the Bonus The AVP will terminate in 2010.
As a result, no award will be made under Plan and any shares required for the satisfaction of deferred bonuses will the AVP in 2010 and the Remuneration Committee has determined that be acquired by market purchase.
the Chief Executive is therefore eligible to receive an award under the LTIP Other benets in 2010.
No further awards will be granted under the AVP.
The Chief In 2008, following termination of discussions with Vale, a small group Executives participation in any open Plan Cycle of the AVP is contingent of senior executives whose particular skills and services the Company on his building up and maintaining a holding of at least 350,000 ordinary was seeking to retain were awarded a one-off retention bonus payable Xstrata shares.
in May 2009 conditional upon, amongst other things, their remaining in employment to and including 30 April 2009.
This proved very effective Payments under the AVP will be based upon the growth in the Companys and all key executives were retained during the designated period.
total shareholder return TSR over the relevant performance period Retention payments are not considered to be a standard element of relative to an index of global mining companies, which form the Xstrata remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee will only consider one-off TSR Index.
Performance will be assessed over periods of both three years retention payments in extraordinary circumstances where the requirement Phase 1 and five years Phase 2 from the date of award.
to retain key personnel is critical to the Groups continued success.
At the end of a Phase 1 performance period, Xstrata TSR will be Many of the Groups operations are conducted in areas not well served calculated and compared to the Xstrata TSR Index, and the Added by commercial ight routes and therefore a company-leased aircraft is Value created over the performance period will be calculated.
provided for the purposes of business travel by Group executives.
The If this gure is positive, it will be multiplied by a Participation Percentage Remuneration Committee has approved the private use of the companywhich is 0.3% of the Added Value for the 2006 and 2007 Plan Cycles, leased aircraft for Mick Davis for an agreed maximum number of hours per 0.5% for the 2008 Plan Cycle and 0.3% for the 2009 Plan Cycle to annum, subject to the aircraft not being required for use by Xstrata at the calculate the Phase 1 Base Reward.
The maximum aggregate relevant time s. Not all of the agreed hours were utilised during 2009.
Participation Percentage for Plan Cycles commencing in any three year According to Company policy, the Company will provide short-term loans period cannot exceed 1.1%.
No payments will be made if Xstrata to any eligible employee to cover periods where employees are exposed to underperforms the Xstrata TSR Index.
overlapping periods of double taxation due to the requirement of working There is a cap which applies to the calculation at the end of the Phase 1 in multiple jurisdictions.
To facilitate the nancing of double taxation in performance period.
If the cap has been applied then the Chief Executive 2010 and subsequent years if required it is intended that an interest-free will become eligible for Phase 2 of a Plan Cycle.
At the end of the Phase 2 short-term loan will be made available to the Chief Executive by Xstrata Schweiz AG to which Xstrata Services UK Limited XSL provides his performance period, the calculation will be carried out in the same way as at the end of Phase 1, but only to the extent that performance exceeds services and which requires him to work in Switzerland.
In 2010 the Chief Executive will be subject to tax in both Switzerland and the UK the applicable cap.
The 2005 Plan Cycle is currently in Phase 2, but the on an overlapping portion of his employment income.
As such, the loan 2006 Plan Cycle did not enter Phase 2.
It is not expected that the 2007 arrangement will facilitate the payment of the double tax.
The Swiss tax Plan Cycle will enter Phase 2.
qxp:Layout 1 18 3 10 01:13 Page 119 119 The Remuneration Committee recognises that the absolute value received In the event of one or more constituents undergoing a take-over, merger, by shareholders is higher when outperforming a rising market than dissolution, variation in capital or any other event that will materially affect calculation of an Index, the Remuneration Committee shall outperforming a market which is static or falling.
Two modiers are determine how this should be reected in the Index calculation.
First, the Phase 1 and Phase 2 Base Rewards will be Remuneration Committee may add other relevant competitors to the increased or decreased in line with the Xstrata share price index measured Index if required.
Second, a reduction will be made for lower levels of absolute performance, by applying a multiplier to the indexed In the event of a change of control, all open Plan Cycles will vest Base Rewards to calculate the Final Rewards.
For the 2008 Plan Cycle and immediately subject to and to the extent of satisfaction of the vesting future plan cycles, for absolute TSR of 25% and above a multiplier of 1 criteria at that time.
The Final Reward under each open Plan Cycle will be will be applied, for absolute TSR of -25% or below a multiplier of 0.5 will calculated as if the performance period terminated on the date of the be applied.
For the 2005 and 2007 Plan Cycle, the multiplier for absolute transaction save that the Remuneration Committee has discretion to TSR of -25% is 0.
Between -25% and 25% straight-line interpolation will disapply the cap that would otherwise apply in the calculation of Phase 1 apply.
Provided Xstratas TSR is at least equal to the TSR index, the Phase 1 Excess Return.
In the event of the Chief Executive ceasing to be an Xstrata Final Reward under each Plan Cycle will be at least US$1 million.
employee as a result of death, ill health or disability, all open Plan Cycles will vest immediately subject to and to the extent of satisfaction of the vesting 50% of the Final Reward for a Phase of a Plan Cycle shall be payable in criteria at that time.
The Final Reward under each open Plan Cycle will be cash or in shares, as determined by the Remuneration Committee, as soon calculated as if the performance period terminated on the date of cessation as practicable following determination of the Final Reward for that Phase of employment.
In the event of the Chief Executive ceasing to be an Xstrata by the Remuneration Committee.
Of the remaining 50% of a Phase 1 Final employee other than in the circumstances described above, all Plan Cycles Reward, 25% shall be deferred for a period of one year and 25% shall be will lapse and no payments will be made unless the Remuneration deferred for a period of two years.
Phase 2 is calculated over a five year Committee in its absolute discretion determines otherwise.
In the event period, with 50% of any additional award paid at the end of that period of a variation in the capital of Xstrata, the Participation Percentages may and the remaining 50% deferred for a further year.
Deferred awards are be adjusted in such a way as the Remuneration Committee determines.
indexed to the Xstrata share price over the period of deferral.
2005 AVP cycle The Xstrata TSR and Share Price Indices will be weighted by market The cap was applied to the Phase 1 Added Value and Phase 2 was capitalisation.
The comparator group for each open Plan Cycle comprises triggered.
As at 31 December 2009, it is not expected any payment relevant global mining rms.
This group is identical to that used for the will be made under Phase 2 of the 2005 Plan Cycle, however, the LTIP described below determination of final reward will be made at the end of the Phase 2 performance period on 9 May 2010.
The comparator group for the TSR and share price indices 1 2005 2007 2008 2009 2010 Alcoa Inc As for 2005 As for 2007 As for 2008 As for 2009 Alcan Inc but excluding: but excluding: but excluding: Anglo American plc Elkem ASA Alcan Inc Coal & Allied Industries Ltd Arch Coal Inc Inco Limited Lonmin plc BHP Billiton plc Falconbridge Limited Umicore SA Coal & Allied Industries Ltd Phelps Dodge Corp And including: Elkem ASA Companhia Vale Eramet SA do Rio Doce Vale Grupo Mexico SA fide CV Vedanta Resources plc Inco Ltd Freeport McMoRan Korea Zinc Inc Copper & Gold Inc Lonmin plc MMC Norilsk Nickel Falconbridge Ltd Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd Norddeutsche Afnerie AG Peabody Energy Corp Phelps Dodge Corp Rio Tinto plc Teck Cominco Ltd Umicore SA 1.
The 2005 Cycle of the AVP is now in Phase 2 and the Final Reward for that Phase will not be measured until May 2010.
The list of comparators is not included for 2006 as that Cycle did not vest in Phase 1 and has not proceeded to Phase 2.
qxp:Layout 1 18 3 10 01:13 Page 120 | 120 GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued During the year, the number of shares representing deferred awards was The Free Share Awards will ensure that where the Group has performed adjusted in accordance with the AVP rules to take account of the Rights well over the specified performance period, participants will be rewarded Issue in March 2009. even if there is no substantial share price growth due to external factors, such as commodity prices or general economic conditions.
The option 2006 AVP cycle element will only provide a benefit to participants when shareholders also No payment was made under Phase 1 of the 2006 Plan Cycle and it did benefit from future share price growth.
The options will be subject to not proceed to Phase 2. stretching performance targets to ensure that windfall growth in the share 2007 AVP cycle price as a result of external factors does not deliver rewards which are not As at 31 December 2009, the decrease of Xstratas TSR was 35.09%, justied by the performance of the Group, relative to its peer group.
The the growth of the Xstrata TSR index was 15.92% and the growth of policy regarding performance targets is discussed in more detail below.
the Xstrata Share Price Index was 8.56%, as calculated under the AVP The number of ordinary shares over which options will be granted will for the 2007 Plan Cycle.
If this is the outcome at the end of the three be calculated using a Black-Scholes valuation of the option or a similar year period, no payment will be made under the plan.
approach which the Remuneration Committee considers represents both 2008 AVP cycle the cost to Xstrata of providing the benefit and the value of the option As at 31 December 2009, the decrease of Xstratas TSR was 59.85%, the itself as a component of the total remuneration package.
The option decrease of the Xstrata TSR index was 25.46% and the decrease of the value at grant will be subject to a lower and upper limit as determined by Xstrata Share Price Index was 28.94%, as calculated under the AVP for the Remuneration Committee from time to time.
In determining the value the 2008 Plan Cycle.
If this is the outcome at the end of the three year of Free Share Awards the value of the underlying shares will be used.
period, no payment will be made under the plan.
Using the method above, the value ratio of Free Share Awards to share 2009 AVP Cycle options for awards made during 2009 was in general 1:1, based on the As at 31 December 2009, the increase of Xstratas TSR was 132.95%, the value at the time of grant.
The Remuneration Committee may change increase of the Xstrata TSR index was 94.94%, and the growth of the the ratio for future awards if it is thought appropriate.
Xstrata Share Price Index was 91.71%, as calculated under the AVP for The Remuneration Committee has determined that annual awards will the 2009 Plan Cycle.
The determination of any award under the 2009 be made under the LTIP to minimise the impact of share price volatility Plan Cycle will be made at the end of the Phase 1 performance period on and to reect existing best practice.
The rules of the LTIP provide that the 17 April 2012 and, if appropriate, at the end of the Phase 2 performance aggregate value of options and Free Share Awards made to an individual period on 17 April 2014. in any one year may not exceed an amount equal to two times base Historically, vested awards under the AVP have been settled in cash.
salary in normal circumstances although, in exceptional circumstances, However, the Remuneration Committee has resolved to retain the the limit may be up to, but may not exceed, four times base salary.
exibility to settle deferred awards in shares if appropriate.
During the year the number of shares under award was adjusted in Long Term Incentive Plan accordance with the AVP and LTIP Plan rules to take account of the Executive directors are eligible to participate in the Xstrata plc Long Term Rights Issue in March 2009.
The LTIP aims to focus managements Summary of performance conditions attention on continuous and sustainable improvements in the underlying During 2007, 2008 and 2009, executive directors were granted market financial performance of the Group and on the delivery of superior longvalue options and Free Share Awards under the LTIP.
The vesting of term returns to Xstratas shareholders by providing executives with the both the options and Free Share Awards is subject to the satisfaction opportunity to earn superior levels of reward but only for outstanding of stretching performance conditions over a three-year performance performance.
Participation in the LTIP is targeted at those employees with period.
Half of the options and Free Share Awards are conditional on direct ability to inuence shareholder value.
In addition, the LTIP further aligns the interests of shareholders and management by encouraging Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to a peer group and half are conditional on the Groups real cost savings relative to targets set executives to build a shareholding in the Group.
on a stretching scale over the three-year period, as set out below.
The LTIP provides for the grant of contingent awards of free shares Free For the awards conditional on TSR, 25% of the combined award will vest Share Awards and share options on the same occasion to the same individual.
The two elements are complementary and ensure that the if TSR growth is at the median of the specified peer group, the full 50% cyclical nature of the industry does not have an excessively adverse effect of the combined award will vest for performance at or above the second on employee remuneration in circumstances where the performance of decile with straight-line vesting between these points.
No vesting will the Group has otherwise been good, relative to that of competitors.
occur for TSR growth below median performance.
qxp:Layout 1 18 3 10 01:13 Page 121 121 For the remaining award, vesting is conditional on the Groups real cost The TSR of the Group and each member of the peer group over any savings relative to targets set on a stretching scale: 5% of the combined performance period is calculated by taking the growth between the award will vest for 1% cost savings, 35% for 2% cost savings and 50% closing value and the base value of 100 shares expressed as a percentage for 3% or more cost savings, with straight-line vesting between these of the base value, on the assumption that any net dividend per share paid points.
No vesting will occur for cost savings that are less than 1%.
Real by any company during the relevant performance period is reinvested cost savings will be measured in relation to operating costs after adjusting in shares on the last day of the month during which the relevant shares for the effects of ination, excluding depreciation, commodity pricego ex-dividend.
This calculation is subject to such adjustments to closing linked costs, effects of currencies on translation of local currency costs value and base value as the Remuneration Committee considers and planned life of mine adjustments.
appropriate to reect any variation of share capital or any merger, takeover, reconstruction, demerger or change in listing status by any member Since the Groups share price and those of its peers are signicantly of the peer group or upon any other events which the Remuneration inuenced by the cycle in commodity prices, the Remuneration Committee Committee considers may materially distort the calculation.
considers TSR relative to a peer group to be an appropriate performance measure as it rewards relative success in growing shareholder value 2007 LTIP Award through the development and execution of the corporate strategy.
The At 31 December 2009, the Group was ranked 14th out of the peer group Remuneration Committee is also satisfied that TSR will be a genuine of 16 companies including Xstrata in terms of TSR for the 2007 award.
reection of the Groups underlying financial performance.
The use of the If this is the outcome at the end of the three-year performance period second measure, Group real cost savings relative to targets, reects the then 0% of each executive directors 2007 award linked to TSR will vest.
Groups strategic initiative to add shareholder value through productivity 2008 LTIP Award and cost efficiencies.
Furthermore, the use of a financial performance At 31 December 2009, the Group was ranked 15th out of the peer group measure alongside a relative TSR measure is aligned with current corporate of 15 companies including Xstrata in terms of TSR for the 2008 award.
If this is the outcome at the end of the three-year performance period The performance targets are not capable of being retested at the end of then 0% of each executive directors 2008 award linked to TSR will vest.
the performance period, so that any proportion of a Free Share Award or 2009 LTIP Award option which does not vest after three years will lapse, although vested As at 31 December 2009, the Group was ranked 5th out of the peer group options will remain exercisable for a maximum of seven years or such of 17 companies including Xstrata in terms of TSR for the 2009 award.
If shorter period as the Remuneration Committee may specify after which this is the outcome at the end of the three-year performance period then they will lapse.
87% of each executive directors 2009 award linked to TSR will vest.
In the event of a change of control, all Free Share Awards and options will It should be noted that these amounts are based on the Groups results at vest in full or in certain circumstances may be exchanged for equivalent this provisional stage and do not necessarily reect the eventual outcome.
options or LTIP awards over shares in the acquiring company.
The peer group of global mining companies used to determine the vesting Xstrata Performance graph GBP FTSE 100 of the options and Free Share Awards conditional on TSR under the LTIP, comprises the same comparator group used to form the Xstrata Share Indices for the Chief Executives AVP for the relevant year detailed above.
The Remuneration Committee may, at its absolute discretion, vary, add, 500 remove or alter the companies making up the peer group where events 400 happen which cause the Remuneration Committee to consider that such a 300 change is appropriate to ensure that the performance condition continues to represent a fair measure of performance.
This is provided that the 200 Remuneration Committee reasonably considers such a varied or amended 100 performance condition is not materially easier or more difficult to satisfy.
0 In calculating the TSR, the common currency of US dollars will be used and the share price of a notional parcel of shares of the Group and the 04 05 06 07 08 09 companies in the specified peer group will be averaged over a period The performance graph set out above shows the TSR for a holding of preceding both the start and end of the relevant performance period.
The shares of Xstrata for the five years ended 31 December 2009, compared Remuneration Committee has resolved that averaging over a three-month with the TSR for a hypothetical holding of shares of the same kind and period eliminates the volatility in spot share prices that could otherwise number as those by reference to which the FTSE 100 index is calculated.
distort the assessment of whether the target has been met.
The Board considers that the FTSE 100 currently represents the most appropriate of the published indices for these purposes.
qxp:Layout 1 18 3 10 01:13 Page 122 | 122 GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued TSR has been calculated assuming that an equivalent sum was invested Non-executive directors are eligible to forego all or part of their directors in shares of the Group and in the FTSE 100 index.
fees to acquire shares in Xstrata, after deduction of applicable income tax and social security contributions.
Dividends are invested in additional shares and benets receivable in the form of shares are also added to the relevant holding.
The non-executive directors do not, and it is anticipated that they will not in the future, participate in the Bonus Plan or LTIP or any other Pensions performance-related incentive arrangements which may be introduced Mick Davis and Trevor Reid have participated in targeted money purchase from time to time.
retirement plans from their respective dates of joining the Group.
The plans are designed having regard to the taxation and employment status Entitlements under service contracts of each executive.
Executive Directors Mick Davis and Trevor Reid have employment agreements with XSL Group contributions are reassessed at regular intervals and are based on effective from 1 February 2002, which are for xed terms of one year.
actuarial advice with the objective of accumulating sufficient funds over However, their services as Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer, the working lifetime of each executive to provide an overall target pension respectively, are provided to the Group under a secondment agreement which is currently intended to be equivalent to approximately 60% of entered into between the Group and XSL on 19 March 2002.
Each of Mick final salary at normal retirement age for executives who begin participating Davis and Trevor Reid is seconded to the Group for a xed term of two in the plans at the age of 40.
The financial dynamics of the arrangement years renewable thereafter by either party for further periods of two years.
therefore have similarities to a dened benefit scheme at the point of contribution.
The actual benets payable from the pension plans will be The employment of Mick Davis and Trevor Reid may be terminated by based on the amount which has accumulated in that members money not less than 12 months notice by XSL or the director concerned or by purchase accounts.
Prior to 6 April 2006, these contributions were paid a payment in lieu of notice by XSL.
On termination of their employment to a combination of an approved money purchase pension plan and a by XSL in breach, or on a change of control or if Mick Davis or Trevor Reid Funded Unapproved Retirement Benets Scheme FURBS.
From 6 April resigns in circumstances where they cannot in good faith be expected to 2006, contributions have been made through a combination of payments continue in employment, each director is entitled to be paid a sum equal to a registered pension plan and cash sums to each executive, having regard to 100% of his annual salary plus pension and other benets and his to the tax limits on contributions and benets from registered UK pension previous years bonus plus any accrued basic salary and expenses and plans with only cash payments being made after 2007.
No employee to have all entitlements under his retirement benefit plans paid in contributions are currently payable by Mick Davis and Trevor Reid.
accordance with the plan rules.
As both Mick Davis and Trevor Reid participate in dened contribution arrangements, it is not expected that As noted above, Santiago Zaldumbide receives no pension benets under any significant additional liability would arise in respect of retirement plan the terms of his professional services agreement.
entitlements beyond that already accrued in the Groups accounts.
For External appointments the purposes of calculating termination payments, annual bonus is Executive directors are not permitted to hold external directorships or capped at 300% of annual salary.
The terms of Mick Davis and Trevor ofces without the approval of the Board.
Santiago Zaldumbide, having Reids contracts are considered to be in line with those operated by other gained the approval of the Board, held a directorship with ThyssenKrupp global businesses listed in London.
He was also a member of the European Advisory Council of Air In addition, each of the executive directors is eligible to participate in the Products and Chemicals, Inc.
In total, the remuneration retained by Bonus Plan which provides that deferred amounts up to an aggregate Santiago Zaldumbide in relation to his positions in these companies ceiling of 200% of salary remain payable in the event of cessation of amounted to EUR48,887.
employment by reason of death, injury, ill health or disability in which Non-Executive Directors case they are payable immediately or retirement in which case they are The level of fees for non-executive directors is set at the level considered payable on the normal vesting date.
No deferred amounts are payable necessary to obtain the services of individuals with the relevant skills in the event of cessation by dismissal for cause.
In the case of termination and experience to bring added depth and breadth to the composition by reason of death, injury, ill health or disability before the date the bonus of the Board.
is awarded for a financial year, or if the Remuneration Committee in its discretion so resolves, a proportion of the annual bonus pool may still be Non-executive directors fees are reviewed annually by the Chairman and awarded subject to the normal discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
the Chief Executive in the light of fees payable to non-executive directors of comparable companies and the importance attached to the retention and attraction of high calibre individuals as non-executive directors.
qxp:Layout 1 18 3 10 01:13 Page 123 123 Executive directors are entitled to any outstanding LTIP awards on Dr Con Fauconnier will be proposed by the Board for election as a noncessation of employment by reason of death, injury, ill health or disability executive director by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on in which case they are payable immediately in full or retirement in 5 May 2010.
If his election is confirmed, he will be engaged by the Group which case they are payable on the normal vesting date to the extent as a non-executive director on the terms of a letter of appointment for an they vest for performance at that time.
initial xed term of 36 months commencing on 5 May 2010 and may be terminated thereafter by six months notice by the non-executive director.
On termination of the professional services agreement dated 23 July 2007, other than on his voluntary termination or termination for gross The Group may terminate each non-executive directors appointment negligence, Santiago Zaldumbide is entitled to be paid a sum equal to at any time and on such termination the non-executive director will 100% of his annual salary and other benets and his previous years not be entitled to any compensation for loss of ofce.
Each term of bonus plus any accrued basic salary and expenses.
Santiago Zaldumbide his appointment may be renewed by the Board.
is engaged as a director of Xstrata plc on the terms of a letter of There is no arrangement under which a director has agreed to waive appointment dated 18 March 2002.
Santiago Zaldumbide will receive future emoluments nor have there been any such waivers during the no additional remuneration for his position as director of Xstrata plc financial year.
and is not entitled to any compensation in respect of the termination of his ofce as a director of Xstrata plc.
There are no outstanding loans or guarantees granted or provided by any member of the Group to or for the benefit of any of the Non-executive directors non-executive directors.
Willy Strothotte is engaged by the Group as a non-executive director and Chairman on the terms of a letter of appointment.
The appointment No significant awards have been made in the financial year to any may be terminated by six months notice by Willy Strothotte.
The Group may terminate Willy Strothottes appointment at any time and on such termination Willy Strothotte will not be entitled to any compensation for loss of ofce.
The term of his appointment may be renewed by the Board.
David Rough is engaged by the Group as the senior independent non-executive director and Deputy Chairman on the terms of a letter of appointment.
The appointment may be terminated by six months notice by David Rough.
The Group may terminate David Roughs appointment at any time and on such termination David Rough will not be entitled to any compensation for loss of ofce.
Ivan Glasenberg, Paul Hazen, Sir Steve Robson, Ian Strachan and Claude Lamoureux are each engaged by the Group as a non-executive director on the terms of a letter of appointment.
Each appointment may be terminated by six months notice by the non-executive director.
Peter Hooley is engaged by the Group as a non-executive director on the terms of a letter of appointment commencing on 5 May 2009.
The initial appointment is for a three year xed term and may be terminated by six months notice by Peter Hooley.
Robert MacDonnell ceased to be a non-executive director with effect from 5 May 2009.
Salary and fees includes non-executive directors fees which may be paid in shares.
In 2009, Mick Daviss and Trevor Reids salaries were set and paid in UK pounds sterling.
The salary gures above have been converted to US dollars based on the average pound dollar exchange rate for the year of 1.566 2008:1.852 and therefore reect the impact of the exchange rate uctuations during the year.
In 2009, Santiago Zaldumbides basic salary and benets were set and paid in Euros.
The gures above have been converted to US dollars based on the average euro dollar exchange rate for the year of 1.394 2008: 1.471 and therefore reect the impact of the exchange rate uctuations during the year.
All non-executive director fees except those for Ian Strachan, Claude Lamoureux and Steve Robson were set and paid in UK pounds sterling.
Ian Strachans fees were set in UK pounds sterling, and paid in US dollars.
Steve Robsons fees were set in UK pounds sterling and paid in Euros except for the 3rd and 4th quarter fees which were paid in UK pounds sterling.
Claude Lamoureuxs fees were set in UK pounds sterling and paid in Canadian dollars.
The gures above have been converted to US dollars based on the average pound dollar exchange rate for the year of 1.566 2008: 1.852 and therefore reect the impact of the exchange rate uctuations during the year.
Robert MacDonnell resigned and Peter Hooley was appointed at the AGM on 5 May 2009.
Bonus awarded in February 2010 in relation to the 2009 performance year.
The bonuses were awarded in UK pounds sterling and converted at a rate of 1.59030, the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the award.
Bonus awarded in February 2010 in relation to 2009 performance year.
The bonus was awarded in Euros and converted at a rate of 1.482, the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the award.
A one-off retention bonus was awarded in 2008 to a small group of senior executives following the termination of discussions with Vale to mitigate a significant increase in approaches to key personnel from competitors.
The bonus vested on 30 April 2009 subject to the recipient remaining in employment and was awarded and paid in UK pounds sterling.
It has been converted at a rate of 1.482, the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the award.
In 2009, Mick Daviss housing allowance was awarded and paid in US dollars.
In 2009, Trevor Reids housing allowance was awarded in US dollars and paid in UK pounds sterling.
In 2009, Mick Daviss benets were set and paid in UK pounds sterling.
The benets have been converted to US dollars based on the average pound dollar exchange rate for the year of 1.566 2008: 1.852 and therefore reect the impact of the exchange rate uctuations during the year.
This includes an amount for life insurance of GBP92,420.
In 2009, Trevor Reids benets were set and paid in UK pounds sterling.
This includes an amount for life insurance of GBP10,796.
In order to facilitate travel to the Groups operations, many of which are located in remote locations not served by commercial ight routes, Xstrata leases private aircraft to be used from time to time for business travel by Xstrata executives.
The Remuneration Committee has approved the private use of the company leased aircraft for Mick Davis, subject to any private usage not coinciding with company requirements, for a limited number of hours per annum, not all of which were utilised in 2009.
The benefit shown above has been calculated based on marginal ight costs for the hours used and converted to US dollars at the average pound dollar exchange rate for the year of 1.566 2008: 1.852 and therefore reects the impact of the exchange rate uctuations during the year.
No consideration has been paid to or is receivable by third parties for making available the qualifying services of any directors during the year or in connection with the management affairs of Xstrata.
Deferred bonus payable in shares.
The number of shares awarded pursuant to deferred bonuses payable in shares is determined by reference to the market value of the shares at the date concurrent awards under the LTIP are made Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p116-127 vAW.
The LTIP options are subject to performance conditions as described above.
Mick Daviss and Trevor Reids LTIP options may be settled in cash at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The highest and lowest prices of the Companys shares during the year were GBP11.48 and GBP2.98 respectively 2008: GBP25.02 and GBP3.25.
The price at the year end was GBP11.21 2008: GBP3.62.
2008 comparator prices have been adjusted for the rights issue.
On 19 October 2009, Mick Davis exercised his option over 877,955 shares.
The market value of an Xstrata share on the date of exercise was GBP10.19, and a gain of GBP7,041,199 was realised.
On 19 October 2009, Mick Davis exercised his option over 122,045 shares.
The market value of an Xstrata share on the date of exercise was GBP10.19, and a gain of GBP951,951 was realised.
On 11 and 12 November 2009, Mick Davis exercised his option over 755,910 shares.
The market value of an Xstrata share on the date of exercise was GBP10.26, and a gain of GBP5,949,012 was realised.
As a consequence of the rights issue, the number of options under Xstratas schemes were adjusted by a factor of 1.766520 and the option price adjusted by a factor of 0.566085.
Details of performance conditions are described above.
The market value of a share on the date of award under the LTIP and the Deferred Bonus on 12 March 2009 was GBP3.26.
These shares were awarded on 26 February 2007 when the closing market price was GBP14.87.
The closing market price on the date of vesting was GBP3.71.
These shares were awarded on 26 February 2008 when the closing market price was GBP23.15.
These shares were awarded on 10 March 2006 when the closing market price was GBP8.48.
The closing market price on the date of vesting was GBP3.23.
As a consequence of the rights issue, the number of share awards under Xstratas schemes were adjusted by a factor of 1.766520.
For consistency, awards vesting under the Deferred Bonus Plan have also been adjusted, although these vested shortly prior to the rights issue.
2005 2008 Added Value Plan Deferred elements of the Xstrata AVP may be settled in cash or shares on vesting.
For the performance period from 9 May 2005 to 9 May 2008, Xstratas total shareholder return TSR was 404.26%, representing outperformance of 166.1% over TSR performance of 238.16% for Xstrata TSR Index of global mining companies.
On 9 May 2009, an award was made in respect of the one year deferral of the cash settlement of Phase 1 of the Xstrata AVP 2005 Plan Cycle of GBP8,159,582.
For the AVP 2005 cycle the participation percentage was 0.5% and the market capitalisation on date of award was GBP6,026,084,544.
The determination of any final reward under Phase 2 of the AVP 2005 Plan Cycle will be made at the end of the Phase 2 performance period on 9 May 2010.
2006 2009 Added Value Plan No payment was made under Phase 1 of the AVP 2006 Cycle and it did not proceed to Phase 2.
For the AVP 2006 cycle the participation percentage was 0.3% and the market capitalisation on date of award was GBP10,692,600,350.
Subsequent periods For the AVP 2007 cycle the participation percentage was 0.3% and the market capitalisation on date of award was GBP23,442,174,802.
For the AVP 2008 cycle the participation percentage was 0.5% and the market capitalisation on the date of award was GBP38,029,287,854.
For the AVP 2009 cycle the participation percentage was 0.3% and the market capitalisation on the date of award was GBP14,697,000.
qxp:Layout 1 18 3 10 01:14 Page 127 127 Pensions Mick Davis and Trevor Reid have participated in dened contribution retirement benefit plans.
During the year, pension-related payments were made as follows: 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 Mick Davis Mick Davis Trevor Reid Trevor Reid Total Total US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ Pension-related payments 3,284,947 3,976,157 1,800,839 2,644,608 5,085,785 6,620,765 Notes 1.
Further details of the pension arrangements are explained above.
Santiago Zaldumbide received no pension benets under the terms of his xed cost remuneration arrangement which is detailed above.
Based on the average UK pound US dollar exchange rate for the year of 1.566 2008: 1.852.
Payments to Mick Davis and Trevor Reid in both years were made in UK pounds sterling.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Willy Strothotte Chairman 2 March 2010
