DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT The Remuneration report is structured as follows: REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Remuneration Committee report Page 90 Members Carl Symon Chairman Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee report Page 92 Roberto Quarta Remuneration reporting: Nick Rose Remuneration strategy, policy and service Pages 93 Responsibilities contracts for executive directors to 103 Agreeing a policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, Chairmans appointment, term and fees Page 103 executive directors, members of the Executive Committee Non-executive directors appointment, term and fees Page 104 EC, the Company Secretary and other senior executives.
Tabular information on directors Within the agreed policy, determining individual shareholdings, share-based incentives, Pages 105 emoluments and pensions to 111 remuneration packages for the Chairman, executive directors and EC members.
Agreeing the policy on terms and conditions to be included in service agreements for the Chairman, executive Governance directors, EC members, the Company Secretary and The members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
Following Sir Nigel Rudds decision to retire from the Board at the end of other senior executives, including termination payments 2009, the Board appointed Carl Symon as Chairman of the Remuneration and compensation commitments, where applicable.
Committee in August 2009 in Sir Nigels stead.
Approving any employee share-based incentive Dick Olver, the Companys Chairman, also served as a member of the schemes and any performance conditions to be Committee from 23 September 2009 until 17 February 2010.
He was used for such schemes.
deemed to be independent on his appointment as Board Chairman on 1 July 2004.
Nick Rose was appointed to the Committee with effect Determining any share scheme performance targets.
The Chief Executive and, other than during the period when he served as a The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, which committee member, the Companys Chairman, attend Committee meetings conform with the requirements of the Combined Code, can be by invitation only.
They do not attend where their individual remuneration is found on the Companys website or can be obtained from the discussed and no director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
In 2009, the Committee met six times and details of attendance at these meetings are provided in the Corporate Governance report on page 83.
The Committee appointed Kepler Associates as its Independent Adviser in 2007 to provide advice to the Committee and its individual members on all aspects of the Committees remit.
Kepler Associates will not undertake any work for the Company whilst they are retained as the Committees Independent Adviser.
Representatives from Kepler Associates have attended each of the Committee meetings during 2009 and will be in attendance at all meetings unless specifically requested otherwise by the Committee.
During the year, the Committee also received material assistance and advice on remuneration policy from the Groups Human Resources Director, Alastair Imrie, and the Human Resources Director, Group Remuneration and Benefits, Graham Middleton.
Dick Olver, Chairman, and Ian King, Chief Executive, also provided advice that was of material assistance to the Committee.
Legal advice to the Committee has been provided by Linklaters who are appointed by the Company, and who also provided services to the Company during the year.
The Committee is satisfied that the services provided to it by Linklaters are of a technical nature and did not create any conflict of interest.
If a conflict of interest were to arise in the future, the Committee would appoint separate legal advisers from those used by the Company.
 PwC, who are appointed by the Company and also provided services to the Company during the year, provided detailed information on market trends and the competitive positioning of packages.
Hewitt New Bridge Street, who are appointed by the Committee, provided advice on the total shareholder return figures for assessing the performance condition under the Performance Carl Symon Share Plan PSP.
Remuneration Committee Chairman On an annual basis, the Committees effectiveness is reviewed as part of the Boards externally facilitated evaluation process.
com Activities Increased the proportion of the annual incentive measured against During the period under review, the Committee: safety and business conduct objectives from approximately 12.6% to 15% to further reinforce key aspects of the Groups Corporate Assessed the level of achievement against financial and non-financial Responsibility agenda.
objectives under the annual incentive plan, and determined the levels of payout as detailed on page 99.
Retained the requirement for one-third of executive directors annual incentives 25% for EC members and other senior executives to be Considered the outcome of the performance conditions for the March compulsorily deferred into the SMP.
2007 Share Matching Plan SMP awards and share options: the real growth in EPS over the three-year performance period exceeded 5% pa Retained the requirement for executive directors and EC members so that the awards of share options and matching SMP shares vest to build up a shareholding over time of at least 200% of salary.
Decided to introduce a claw back arrangement on in-year annual Considered the outcome of the performance condition for the March incentives, and future awards under the SMP and PSP prior to vesting.
2007 awards under the PSP: these lapsed as the total shareholder Consulted with major shareholders on aspects of remuneration return over the three-year performance period to the end of 2009 of strategy and policy.
-10.4% was below the median return of the global comparator group of aerospace and defence companies of -5.1%.
The Companys remuneration strategy, policy and details of executive remuneration are set out on pages 93 to 111 of this Agreed the package for Linda Hudson on her appointment to the Board Remuneration report.
as President and Chief Executive Officer, BAE Systems, Inc. and an executive director of BAE Systems plc.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee Agreed the Chief Executives recommendation to leave salary and incentive levels for executive directors unchanged for 2010.
Carl Symon Remuneration Committee Chairman Agreed significant changes to US pension arrangements to ensure they remain affordable and competitive.
Retained the same performance conditions for 2010 awards under the SMP and the PSP despite the challenging economic environment.
The table below shows the annual timetable of Committee activities: Directors and EC Annual bonus Share plans Miscellaneous members remuneration Q1 Shareholder consultation on Review prior year performance Approve Group All-Employee Review Remuneration Committee remuneration review against financial and non-financial Free Shares Plan payments Terms of Reference and output objectives.
Where applicable, of the Remuneration Committee Approve remuneration for EC Grant of Spring awards to award bonuses performance evaluation members directors and executives Set directors and EC members Review Remuneration Report for performance targets and recommendation to the Board objectives for current year Q2 Review pay review for senior executives below the EC Q3 Review directors actual pay and Review progress of directors Grant of Autumn awards to bonus for previous year against and EC members performance directors and executives comparator group actuals against targets Set basis for annual remuneration review Q4 Review market position Review share-based reward Review market position of including pensions considering market trends, and package including pensions for review status of performance senior executives below the EC Set bonus levels and share conditions, dilution levels and plan grant levels usage for following year Set directors salaries Agree grant policy for Spring awards Approve Group All-Employee Free Shares Plan for following year BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 91 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Activities NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES COMMITTEE REPORT The Board has approved the following guidelines to be used by the Committee when discharging its responsibilities: Members Dick Olver Chairman fees shall be sufficient to attract and retain individuals with the necessary Philip Bramwell skills, experience and knowledge required to ensure that the Board is Linda Hudson able to discharge its duties effectively: Ian King in setting fees the Committee shall have regard to the amount of time individual non-executive directors are required to devote to their duties, and also the scale, complexity and international nature of the Responsibilities business, and the responsibility involved: Reviewing the fees payable to non-executive directors excluding the Chairman and making changes to such fees payable to non-executive directors shall be paid in cash and shall not be performance-related: and fees as deemed appropriate.
non-executive directors shall not participate in the Companys sharebased incentive schemes or pension scheme.
The Committee meets each year to consider the fees paid to the nonexecutive directors.
Having reviewed the time commitments expected of Governance non-executive directors and the market competitive positioning of existing The Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee has delegated authority from fee levels, the Committee agreed in January 2010 to make no changes to the Board to agree fees payable to non-executive directors on its behalf.
their fees at the current time as detailed on page 104.
Walt Havenstein was a Committee member up to June 2009.
Linda Hudson On behalf of the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee joined the Committee on her appointment to the Board in October 2009.
Dick Olver Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee Chairman 92 www.
com REMUNERATION STRATEGY, POLICY AND PACKAGES Following the annual review in November 2009, the Committee concluded that the current remuneration strategy remains appropriate, and intends to continue with the executive remuneration policy as detailed in this report in 2010 and subsequent years for executive directors and Executive Committee EC members, and this policy will be flowed down to the most senior executives within the Group globally approximately 280 to create a consistent global approach to reward.
The principles of the remuneration strategy are applied consistently across the Group below this level, taking account of seniority and local market practice.
The Committee will continue to consult on material changes with principal shareholders.
REMUNERATION STRATEGY REMUNERATION POLICY The Companys remuneration strategy is to provide a remuneration To achieve the strategy, the remuneration policy for executive package that: directors and EC members is to: helps to attract, retain and motivate Set base salary at around median of the relevant market competitive level is aligned to shareholders interests Reward stretching superior performance with upper quartile reward is competitive against the appropriate market Provide an appropriate balance between: encourages and supports a Total Performance culture aligned to the achievement of the Companys strategic objectives short-term and long-term reward is fair and transparent fixed and variable reward can be applied consistently throughout the Group with the balance becoming more long-term and more highly geared with seniority Directly align short-term and long-term reward through compulsory deferral of annual incentive into the Share Matching Plan Provide a competitive package of benefits ELEMENTS OF PACKAGE PURPOSE Base salary Recognise market value of role and individuals skills, experience and performance Annual incentive Drive and reward annual performance of individuals, teams and the Company on both financial and non-financial metrics, including behaviours Share Matching Plan Directly align short-term and long-term reward through compulsory deferral of annual incentive into shares, and drive and reward delivery of sustained long-term Earnings per Share EPS performance through co-investment aligned to the interests of shareholders Performance Share Plan Drive and reward delivery of sustained long-term EPS and Total Shareholder Return TSR performance aligned to the interests of shareholders Pension provision Provide competitive and affordable retirement benefits which reward long-term performance through seniority, and loyalty through long service Other benefits Provide competitive cost effective benefits package through leveraging the Companys size and scale Global all-employee Reward all employees globally for Group performance, encouraging employee share ownership aligned incentive plan to the interests of shareholders 2009 remuneration review The 2009 review not only considered the Companys executive remuneration packages against the market, but also the Companys performance to date and its corporate strategy for the next five years.
Information on the market for comparable management positions was provided by PwC so that the Committee could form a view as to where to position the various elements of the package relative to comparable companies.
The methodology used was to construct appropriate comparator groups for the individual positions, taking account of company size, scale of operations and breadth of role.
The comparator group for the UK executive directors comprised the FTSE 50 companies excluding financial services and retail with market capitalisation nearest to that of BAE Systems.
The Committee believes that using market capitalisation creates alignment between the value placed on the Company and the value placed on the executives who manage it.
The six largest companies were also excluded as were several others to arrive at a comparator group of 23 companies 12 larger and 11 smaller which the Committee believed appropriate for benchmarking UK executive directors packages.
For the President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. regression analysis was used on US aerospace, defence and general industry sector data to produce appropriate market figures consistent with the size and scale of the US business, adjusting where necessary to reflect the extra responsibility for her plc board role.
The base salary, total cash reward base salary plus annual incentive, total direct reward total cash reward plus long-term incentives and total reward total direct reward plus pension were analysed at the lower quartile, median and upper quartile for the relevant posts in the comparator group companies.
This gives the Committee a view on the competitiveness of the individual elements of the package as well as the package as a whole.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 93 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Committee also reviewed market trends around the individual elements of remuneration to ensure that the structure of the package stays in line with market practice.
The remuneration structure overall also takes account of the performance of the individual, the Company as a whole, and the pay and conditions of Group employees.
Overall conclusion Overall, the review indicated that the structure and level of the packages were not out of line with the market, although the base salaries for both the Chief Executive and the President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. who are both relatively new to their roles, were slightly behind their respective benchmarks.
Having taken account of the current economic climate, the challenges facing the business going forward and the pay environment for employees in general, the Committee agreed the Chief Executives recommendation that salary and incentive levels for executive directors remain unchanged for 2010.
As part of the overall review of remuneration strategy and in order to maintain the alignment between reward and performance, the Committee agreed clawback arrangements intended to cover situations for example, where results are restated or otherwise turn out to be materially inaccurate or where the executives employment can be terminated for cause.
These arrangements are to be applied in respect of the compulsorily deferred element of the in-year annual incentive, the 2010 PSP and SMP awards, and their respective equivalents in future years.
Incentives The Groups strategy is set out on page 10 along with the Group Strategic Framework.
This explains how the Groups strategy is delivered through the Group Strategic Objective, which is to deliver Total Performance through Customer Focus, Financial Performance, Programme Execution and Responsible Behaviour.
Underpinning the drive for Total Performance are the Groups Values Trusted, Innovative and Bold.
The Group will focus on six Strategic Actions, which emphasise the home market strategies and are underpinned by the Integrated Business Plan IBP, which sets out the individual businesses plans for the next five years in terms of strategy, actions and performance, making sure they are aligned to collectively deliver the Strategic Actions and the Groups strategy.
Each year, the Board agrees the ECs top ten objectives which are those key to delivering the Groups strategy.
These are set out on page 11 and are used as the basis to set the individual objectives for the executive directors and EC members which are agreed by the Chairman, Dick Olver, and the Committee.
These then flow down to the senior leadership team to ensure that all businesses within the Group are aligned with the overall Group strategy.
The remuneration strategy incentivises and rewards executives to deliver their contribution to the achievement of the Groups strategy through the combination of short-term incentives targeted at business performance, Group performance, personal performance and leadership behaviours, and long-term incentives targeted at Group performance.
To directly align short-term and long-term reward, executive directors will be required to invest at least one-third of their net 2010 annual incentive into the Share Matching Plan SMP when the annual incentive is paid in 2011.
Further investment can be made on a voluntary basis up to a maximum investment of half their net annual incentive.
Annual Incentive Plan The annual incentives for 2010 continue to focus on a combination of in-year financial performance, and longer-term performance and risk management both business risk and reputation risk.
Two-thirds is driven off in-year financial performance and one-third based on driving performance, and improvement in safety and business conduct objectives reinforcing the importance of key aspects of the Groups Corporate Responsibility agenda combined with the other objectives supporting the Groups strategy.
To further reinforce the importance of the Groups Corporate Responsibility agenda, the proportion of the annual incentive driven off safety and business conduct objectives increases from approximately 12.6% in 2009 to 15% for 2010.
The financial targets are derived from the IBP, and are based on earnings and cash targets as these are seen as the key indicators of both shortterm and long-term financial performance and value creation, and are supported by the Companys major shareholders.
At Group level, EPS is used 1 whereas EBITA is used to measure earnings performance at a business level.
Previously cash targets have been based on net cash debt at the year end.
To incentivise improved phasing of cash generation throughout the year, a combination of year end and average quarterly net cash debt was introduced for 2009 and this will continue for 2010.
As last year, the payout for achieving on-target performance against the in-year financial targets remains at 40% of maximum.
In relation to the profit element, due to the stretching nature of the plan, the Committee has introduced for 2010 a threshold paying 20% of maximum.
Payout for performance between targets is calculated on a straight-line basis.
The table below summaries the overall structure of the annual incentives for executive directors.
Proportion of annual incentive Performance measure 2009 2010 In-year financial 66.6% 66.6% Safety and ethics business conduct 12.6% 15.0% Other objectives 20.8% 18.4% The Committee believes that the annual incentive targets for the executive directors are stretching but achievable.
The structure of the 2010 annual incentive plan for each of the executive directors is summarised in their individual sections on pages 96 to 98.
Long-Term Incentive Plans LTIPs The Company operates two LTIPs having ceased awards of share options in 2008 the Performance Share Plan PSP and the Share Matching Plan SMP.
No changes have been made for the 2010 awards apart from the introduction of a clawback provision detailed above.
Full details of the PSP and SMP are contained on pages 100 and 101.
The combination of the annual incentive plan, SMP and PSP provide a balance between short-term cash reward and longer-term share-based reward as illustrated opposite for the Chief Executive.
The proportion of the incentive package delivered through longer-term performance is significantly higher at stretch payout than at on-target payout, demonstrating that the package supports the achievement of superior long-term performance and strongly aligns the interests of executives to those of shareholders through a long-term reward being delivered in shares.
The second graph shows 1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense.
com which performance metrics are driving the value of the incentives.
This shows that, at on-target performance, the higher inuence of the annual incentive means that in-year measures drive almost 40% of the package value, with long-term EPS which underpins the SMP and half the PSP awards accounting for a similar proportion.
But, at stretch performance, the inuence of the annual incentive is reduced, and the SMP and PSP account between them for nearly three-quarters of the value of the incentive package, with the most important drivers of value becoming long-term EPS and share price.
This shows that achieving strong performance on the in-year measures is important but, in order to maximise the value of their incentive package, executives need to drive growth in long-term EPS and share price.
PROPORTION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVES INCENTIVE PACKAGE DELIVERED PERFORMANCE DRIVERS OF CHIEF EXECUTIVES BY THE VARIOUS INCENTIVE PLANS % INCENTIVE PACKAGE % Stretch Stretch performance performance On-target On-target performance performance 0 20 40 60 80 100 0 20 40 60 80 100 Proportion of incentive package % Proportion of incentive package % Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP In-year measures Long-term EPS Relative TSR Share price Personal shareholding policy The Committee has agreed a policy whereby all executive directors are required to establish and maintain a minimum personal shareholding equal to 200% of base salary.
As a minimum, a holding equal to 100% of base salary must be achieved as quickly as possible using shares vesting or options exercised through the executive share option schemes or long-term incentive schemes, by using 50% of the shares that vest or 50% of the options which are exercised on each occasion.
Thereafter, executive directors are required to increase their personal shareholding gradually, on each occasion using 25% of the shares that vest or 25% of the options exercised each year, until a personal shareholding equal to 200% of annual base salary is achieved and maintained.
These limits are reviewed periodically.
A similar arrangement applies to senior executives eligible for share-based long-term incentives with limits aligned to the levels of awards made under these plans.
Details of the directors personal shareholdings are shown in Table A on page 105.
Pension provision No changes to the pension arrangements for uK executive directors were made in 2009.
A review of uK executive pension arrangements is planned for 2010.
A major review of uS pensions was undertaken in 2009 to take account of the rapidly changing uS pension market and new funding rules which come into effect in 2011.
As a result of this review, a number of significant changes were agreed which impact both existing employees and new hires.
These also simplify the arrangements going forward by consolidating the numerous legacy plans to provide a much simpler structure for future service benets.
These changes effectively: Froze the legacy final salary plans at the end of 2009, with future service for these members being provided by the 2006 Career Average Cash Plan together with a standard 85% Company match on up to 6% of salary in the dened contribution plan known as the 401 k Plan.
The 2006 Plan provides a cash sum at retirement of 10% of career pay salary and bonus.
Bonuses will no longer be pensionable in the 401 k plans.
Only a 401 k plan will be provided for new hires.
Employees who currently have only a 401 k plan will move to a standardised plan with either a 50% or 100% Company match depending on their business on up to 6% of salary.
The Committee had previously agreed that, from 2008, where bonuses are pensionable, their pensionability is limited to 150% of base salary.
Linda Hudson is a member of the 2006 Plan and had a supplementary pension arrangement SERP which sought to match the pension arrangements provided by her previous employer.
This uplifted her 2006 Plan accrual from the normal 10% of pay to 15% of pay.
Effective in 2010, the SERP providing this additional benefit was reduced in line with the average impact for other uS employees such that, from 1 January 2010, her 2006 Plan accrues at the rate of 14.1% of career pay.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 95 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS PACKAGES Ian King Chief Executive 2010 2009 Base salary 900,000 pa Annual incentive Max on-target % of salary 225% 110% Structure % of salary On-target Stretch On-target Stretch Group EPS 36% 90% 30% 75% Group cash 24% 60% 30% 75% Safety Up to 16.875% Up to 14.25% Business conduct Ethics Up to 16.875% Up to 14.25% Other objectives Up to 41.25% Up to 46.5% 1 Deferral into SMP compulsory plus voluntary up to total of 50% of net annual incentive 3 SMP Gross match 2:1 Performance condition EPS growth of 5% 11% pa PSP Grant % of salary 250% Performance condition on relative TSR against 18 other global aerospace and defence companies and on EPS growth of 5% 11% pa Pension accrual 1 30th of three year final average salary from age 62 for 8% members contributions The graphs below show the value of the package at on-target and stretch performance together with the proportion of the package delivered through fixed and variable reward.
VALUE OF PACKAGE 000 Stretch performance On-target performance 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000 Value of package 000 Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP PROPORTION OF PACKAGE VALUE DELIVERED THROUGH FIXED AND PERFORMANCE-RELATED REWARD % Stretch performance On-target performance 0 20 40 60 80 100 Proportion of overall package % Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP 96 www.
com STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS PACKAGES CONTINUED George Rose Group Finance Director 2010 2009 Base salary 622,500 pa Annual incentive Max on-target % of salary 150% 73% Structure % of salary On-target Stretch On-target Stretch Group EPS 24% 60% 20% 50% Group cash 16% 40% 20% 50% Safety Up to 11.25% Up to 9.75% Business conduct Ethics Up to 11.25% Up to 9.75% Other objectives Up to 27.5% Up to 30.5% 1 Deferral into SMP 3 compulsory plus voluntary up to total of 50% of net annual incentive SMP Gross match 2:1 Performance condition EPS growth of 5% 11% pa PSP Grant % of salary 250% Performance condition on relative TSR against 18 other global aerospace and defence companies and on EPS growth of 5% 11% pa Pension accrual 1 30th of three year final average salary from age 60 for 9.29% members contributions The graphs below show the value of the package at on-target and stretch performance together with the proportion of the package delivered through fixed and variable reward.
VALUE OF PACKAGE 000 Stretch performance On-target performance 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 Value of package 000 Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP PROPORTION OF PACKAGE VALUE DELIVERED THROUGH FIXED AND PERFORMANCE-RELATED REWARD % Stretch performance On-target performance 0 20 40 60 80 100 Proportion of overall package % Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 97 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS PACKAGES CONTINUED Linda Hudson President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. 2010 2009 Base salary $900,000 pa Annual incentive Max on-target % of salary 225% 110% Structure % of salary On-target Stretch On-target Stretch Group EPS 12% 30% 10% 25% Group cash 8% 20% 10% 25% Business EBITA 24% 60% 20% 50% Business cash 16% 40% 20% 50% Safety Up to 16.875% Up to 14.25% Business conduct Ethics Up to 16.875% Up to 14.25% Other objectives Up to 41.25% Up to 46.5% 1 Deferral into SMP compulsory plus voluntary up to total of 50% of net annual incentive 3 SMP Gross match 2:1 Performance condition EPS growth of 5% 11% pa PSP Grant % of salary 250% Performance condition on relative TSR against 18 other global aerospace and defence companies and on EPS growth of 5% 11% pa Pension accrual Cash sum at retirement of Cash sum at retirement of 14.1% career pay salary plus 15% of career pay salary plus bonus up to maximum of bonus up to maximum of 150% of salary for a 150% of salary for a contribution of 1.5% of pay, contribution of 1.5% of pay, plus an 85% Company 401 k plus a 100% Company 401 k match on contributions match on contributions to a maximum of 6% of salary to a maximum of 6% of pay From 26 October 2009, the date of Linda Hudsons appointment to the Board.
The graphs below show the value of the package at on-target and stretch performance together with the proportion of the package delivered through fixed and variable reward.
VALUE OF PACKAGE $000 Stretch performance On-target performance $0 $2,000 $4,000 $6,000 $8,000 $10,000 $12,000 Value of package $000 Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP PROPORTION OF PACKAGE VALUE DELIVERED THROUGH FIXED AND PERFORMANCE-RELATED REWARD % Stretch performance On-target performance 0 20 40 60 80 100 Proportion of overall package % Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP 98 www.
com Performance in 2009 The structure of the 2009 Annual Incentive Plan was set out in last years Remuneration report and is summarised in the individual sections for each of the executive directors on pages 96 to 98.
Financial performance 2009 was a good year in terms of financial performance following the Groups strong performance of recent years.
At the Group level, EPS performance was above target, but some way short of stretch performance, whilst stretch performance was achieved on both cash targets.
At the operating group level, Programmes & Support and International both exceeded their profit targets but did not hit stretch.
Both achieved their stretch cash targets.
Electronics, Intelligence & Support and Land & Armaments both hit their stretch profit targets and, whilst both exceeded their cash targets, they did not achieve their stretch cash targets.
BAE Systems, Inc. achieved stretch performance on both profit and year end cash and, whilst exceeding its average cash target, fell short of its stretch target.
The US pension accounting gain and the regulatory penalties were excluded from the calculation of growth in the Groups underlying EPS performance for incentive purposes.
Non-financial performance Page 7 set outs the ECs top ten objectives for 2009 and the assessment of performance against these, whilst page 40 provides more detailed information on the performance against the specific objectives relating to safety and business conduct.
Each senior executive also had a personal safety objective and a personal business conduct objective.
Business conduct: All the Group objectives in relation to business conduct were achieved, including those personal to the individual executive directors and EC members.
In particular, the 2009 milestones for the Woolf implementation programme were substantively achieved, including the launch of the global Code of Conduct and communication of this to employees through team briefings.
A sample of employees worldwide were invited to participate in a survey on the Groups approach to responsible business conduct which showed a trend increase across all six areas, including an increased awareness of the ethical standards expected.
Safety: The executive directors and EC members conducted the required safety reviews.
The minimum safety Level 3 standard was achieved across all lines of business and, at Group level, over 60% of major manufacturing sites reached Level 4.
The total incident rate across the Group fell by 33% against the 10% improvement target.
Other aspects of performance: Against the remaining top ten Group objectives, excellent progress has been made.
Accordingly, the Committee agreed an overall rating of 6.5 out of 7.5.
This sets the starting point with further adjustment, up or down, depending on the assessment of the individual executives overall performance and leadership behavioural performance.
Accordingly, the Committee determined the payout under the 2009 Annual Incentive Plan as follows: 2009 annual incentive payout Ian King Linda Hudson George Rose % of stretch 83.0% 87.9% 80.9% % of base salary 186.7% 179.4% 121.4% Amount 000 1,680 $296 755 The figures for Linda Hudson are in respect of the period from her appointment to the Board.
In addition: The real growth in EPS over the three years to 2009 exceeded 5% pa so that the awards of share options and matching SMP shares granted in 2007 vest in full.
The Companys TSR for awards of shares made in March 2007 under the PSP did not exceed the median position when compared against the comparator group of 18 other defence and aerospace companies, and accordingly lapsed.
The Committee also determined that the second tranche of shares and cash due to Mike Turner the previous Chief Executive on 1 September 2009 in respect of the special incentive awarded to him in October 2007, which vested in full on 1 September 2008, should be released.
VALUE AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 OF 100 INVESTMENT AT VALUE AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 OF 100 INVESTMENT 31 DECEMBER 2004 250 250 200 200 150 150 100 100 50 50 0 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 BAE Systems FTSE 100 BAE Systems Aerospace and defence comparator group FTSE 100 UK executive director pay review comparator group This graph, which has been produced in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 8 of the The graph above shows the value shareholders have achieved by their investment in BAE Systems Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, over recent years as compared to i the FTSE 100 index: ii the companies forming the sectoral shows the value by 31 December 2009, on a total shareholder return basis, of 100 invested in peer group for the Performance Share Plan: and iii the companies forming the comparator pay BAE Systems on 31 December 2004 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 group for the 2009 executive pay review.
The graph depicts the value for BAE Systems and the index.
The FTSE 100 is considered to be an appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is a broad comparators at the end of 2009 of a single 100 investment made at the beginning of each of equity index.
As BAE Systems is a constituent member of the FTSE 100, it was deemed to be the the last five years.
most appropriate general UK equity index.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 99 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SUMMARY OF LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS Plan provisions Performance conditions for grants of awards to be made under the Performance Share Plan and the Share Matching Plan in 2010 are detailed below.
Performance conditions for grants of awards made prior to 2010 are detailed on pages 106 and 107.
Clawback arrangements have been introduced and will operate in respect of these two plans from the 2010 awards onwards.
The arrangements are intended to cover situations, for example, where results are restated or otherwise turn out to be materially inaccurate or where the executives employment can be terminated for cause.
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN PSP Key features for PSP awards in 2010: awards of shares are granted based on a percentage of salary and share price at the date of grant: the shares are subject to satisfaction of three-year performance conditions: TSR half the PSP award will be based on a Total Shareholder Return performance condition PSP and the other half on an Earnings per Share EPS PSP performance condition: TSR in addition, there is a further test on the PSP element to ensure that the TSR performance is supported by the underlying performance of the Company: shares under award after satisfaction of the performance condition vest in three equal tranches at the end of years three, four and five: and shares under award attract dividends prior to vesting.
HOW THE PSP OPERATES 50% of award based on TSR One-third available immediately growth relative to a sectoral comparator at the end of year three group of companies over the three-year performance period, subject to a PSP award secondary financial measure paid in shares PSP amount varying The second third available award according to at the end of year four performance achieved 50% of award based on actual annual EPS growth over the The final three-year performance period third available at the end of year five Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year 0 1 2 3 3 4 5 6 7 For the US executives, the awards are automatically delivered at the end of years three, four and five, subject to the performance condition achieved.
EPS EPS PERFORMANCE CONDITION PSP PERFORMANCE CONDITION PSP Proportion of the award capable of exercise: determined by the rate 100 of annual actual EPS growth over the three-year performance period, with nil vesting at annual actual EPS growth of 5% or less and 100% 75 vesting at 11% growth as set out opposite 15% to 33% growth over three years.
50 The rationale for the EPS performance measure is that major investors consider EPS to be a key indicator of long-term financial 25 performance and value creation.
com % of total award vesting TSR PERFORMANCE CONDITION PSP TSR PSP sectoral peer group Proportion of the award capable of exercise determined by: Boeing General Dynamics Raytheon i the Companys TSR share price growth plus dividends ranking Cobham GKN Rockwell Collins relative to a comparator group of 18 other international defence Dassault Aviation Goodrich Rolls-Royce and aerospace companies as shown in the table opposite.
EADS Honeywell International Smiths Group Embraer PN Lockheed Martin Thales None of the shares vest if the Companys TSR is outside the top Finmeccanica Northrop Grumman United Technologies 50% of TSRs achieved by the sectoral comparator group and 100% TSR PERFORMANCE CONDITION PSP vest if it is in the top quintile i. e. top 20% as set out opposite: and 100 ii whether there has been a sustained improvement in the 75 Companys underlying financial performance and whether it is appropriate to release some or all of the awards.
In taking such 50 a view, the Committee may consider but not exclusively the 1 following financial metrics: net cash debt: EBITA : order book: 25 turnover: risk and underlying project performance.
The rationale for TSR performance measures is that major investors 0 regard TSR as an important indication of both earnings and capital 0 102030405060708090 100 growth relative to other major companies in the same sector and to ensure that awards only vest if there has been a clear improvement Performance relative to comparator group percentile in the Companys performance over the relevant period.
SUMMARY OF TSR PERFORMANCE TO 31 DECEMBER 2009 TSR PERFORMANCE UNDER THE PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN The graph opposite summarises the position on the TSR element 0.0% 30.5% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% for all outstanding awards under the PSP as at 31 December 2009. vesting vesting vesting vesting vesting vesting The coloured box shows the range of TSR required for 25% vesting 60 to full vesting, and the diamond shows BAE Systems TSR.
The proportion that would vest is shown in the boxes at the top of 50 the chart.
40 This shows that the March 2007 PSP award lapsed as the Companys 30 TSR return was below that of the comparator group.
20 10 0 -10 -20 -30 30 March 15 August and 26 March 8 September 24 March 7 September 2007 19 September 2008 2008 2009 2009 2007 Median to top 20% TSR BAE Systems TSR SHARE MATCHING PLAN SMP PERFORMANCE CONDITION SMP 2010 Key features for grants of awards in 2010: 2:1 stand-alone share investment plan with the investment linked to the award under the Annual Incentive Plan: participants are granted a conditional award of Matching Shares against the gross value of the annual incentive invested: 1:1 Matching Shares attract dividends during the three-year deferral period, released on vesting of any Matching Shares: executive directors are required to invest one-third of their 2009 0 net annual incentive into the SMP: and 0123456789 10 11 12 maximum level of investment will be 50% of the net annual incentive.
Annual EPS growth % Match and performance condition Nil match for actual EPS growth of less than 5% pa increasing uniformly to a 2:1 match at 11% pa growth 15% to 33% growth over three years.
Rationale for performance measure: major investors consider EPS to be a key indicator of long-term financial performance and value creation.
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 101 Match Total Shareholder Return % % of total award vesting DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Share Incentive Plan SIP During 2009 the UK executive directors were eligible to participate in the all-employee free shares element of the Share Incentive Plan.
As a result of the Companys performance in 2009, all eligible employees including the UK executive directors will be entitled to receive shares worth 567.
A similar arrangement operates for non-UK employees on a cash or shares basis depending on local tax and security laws.
The Company operates a share purchase arrangement Partnership Shares under the Share Incentive Plan.
Under this arrangement, UK-based employees including executive directors may purchase ordinary shares in BAE Systems by either monthly investments of between 10 and 125 a month, or lump sum investments of between 10 and 1,500 in a tax year, both limited to 10% of salary if less.
The Partnership Shares attract Matching Shares.
As the plan is an all-employee plan, the Matching Shares are not subject to performance conditions in accordance with legislation.
One free matching share is awarded for each Partnership Share up to a maximum of 63 per month.
Dividends paid in respect of the shares in the Share Incentive Plan for UK-based employees are reinvested as Dividend Shares.
Share usage for employee share schemes Number of The Committee has agreed that, in respect of new issue or treasury shares shares, shares representing no more than 1% and no more than 0.5% for the executive schemes of the Companys issued share Total issued share capital as at 31 December 2009 3,585m capital will be used in any one financial year for the grant of All schemes: incentives under all of the Companys employee share schemes.
10% in any consecutive years 358.5m The table opposite sets out the available dilution capacity for the Remaining headroom 218.1m Companys employee share schemes on this basis.
Executive schemes: The Company currently intends to use new issue shares to satisfy 5% in any consecutive ten years 179.2m future share awards under the executive long-term incentive plans up to the 0.5% annual dilution limit, and to use treasury shares Remaining headroom 91.2m to satisfy awards of free shares and matching shares under the all-employee Share Incentive Plan.
For outstanding options it is intended that new issue shares will be utilised for the Executive Share Option Plan.
Post-retirement benets UK pension benets UK executive directors are members of the BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme the ExPS and members of the underlying employee pension plans.
As such, they are subject to the same contribution rates payable by employees of the underlying plans, and the benefits changes introduced in 2006 for post-April 2006 service including the introduction of the Longevity Adjustment Factor, a reduction in the maximum level of pension increases and a change in the definition of Pensionable Pay.
The ExPS tops up the underlying employee plan to provide a target benefit for executive directors payable from normal retirement age of 1 30th of Final Pensionable Pay FPP for each year of ExPS pensionable service subject to a maximum of two-thirds of FPP.
FPP is defined as base salary averaged over the last 12 months prior to leaving service in respect of service accrued to 5 April 2006 and 36 months prior to leaving in respect of service from 6 April 2006.
The ExPS also provides a lump sum death-in-service benefit equal to four times base salary at date of death, and a spouses death-in-service pension equal to two-thirds of the prospective pension at normal retirement age.
Childrens allowances are also payable, usually up to the age of 18.
Spouses pensions and childrens allowances are also payable upon death in retirement and death after leaving the Companys employment with a deferred pension.
Pensions are increased annually by the rise in the Retail Price Index subject to a maximum increase of 5% per year in respect of pre-6 April 2006 service and 2.5% per year in respect of service from 6 April 2006.
As a result of the 2006 age discrimination legislation, executive directors default retirement age is 65 but they retain any previous rights they had to retire and draw their pensions without actuarial reduction for early payment at an earlier age.
Following the changes made to take account of the Pensions Simplification tax changes which came into effect from April 2006, UK executives reaching the Lifetime Allowance LTA are given a number of choices as previously reported.
These are: remain in the pension scheme and pay any additional tax charge: or opt out of the pension scheme and so earn no further pension benefits in respect of future service and instead receive a taxable salary supplement.
This supplement will be 30% of salary and 20% of salary for those senior executives with a two-thirds salary target after at least 20 years and 30 years service, respectively: or restrict scheme benefits to the value of the LTA with the remainder being provided directly from the Company as an unfunded promise.
At retirement, the unfunded Company benefits can be either taken as pension or commuted in full for a taxable lump sum.
The Committee reviews these arrangements each year in the light of developing market practice and believes they remain appropriate as they provide executives with competitive pension benefits and choices for dealing with the LTA which may better suit their needs whilst being broadly cost neutral to the Company, are in line with market practice and do not compensate executives for changes in taxation.
Ian King is a member of the BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan the 2000 Plan, applicable to former employees of Marconi Electronic Systems MES, and a member of the ExPS with a normal retirement age of 62.
The 2000 Plan provides a pension of 1 50th of Final Pensionable Earnings FPE for each year of pensionable service, payable from a normal retirement age of 65 and members pay contributions of 8% of Pensionable Earnings.
FPE under the 2000 Plan is the best three-year average of base salary and bonus in the ten Plan Years prior to leaving, less an offset for State pensions.
The Company decided in 2006 to limit pensionable bonuses in the 2000 Plan in the 2006 07 Plan Year to 20% of base salary and to 10% of base salary for the 2007 08 Plan Year and thereafter.
However, there is a guarantee that the FPE figure for benefits in respect of service prior to 6 April 2007 will not be less than the FPE figure at 5 April 2007 to ensure that employees do not lose the benefit of contributions paid on past bonuses.
Ian King joined the ExPS in 1999 following the BAe MES merger.
Therefore Ian Kings total pension is the sum of his 2000 Plan benefits plus the top up from the ExPS.
com George Rose is a member of the BAE Systems Pension Scheme paying contributions of 9.29% of base salary, and is a member of the ExPS with a normal retirement age of 60.
George Rose was affected by the previously applicable Inland Revenue earnings cap on approved pensions and has an unapproved i. e. non-tax qualified pension arrangement to top up his benefits from the approved schemes.
This was designed so that the total pension from all sources would be broadly in line with the pension he would have received from the Group pension schemes had he not been subject to the earnings cap.
The Pension Simplification tax changes allowed the flexibility to remove the earnings cap for George Rose in respect of service from April 2006, although some of his benefits will remain to be provided by means of an unfunded promise from the Company.
No further contributions will be paid into his funded unapproved top up arrangement.
US pension benets Linda Hudson is a member of the 2006 Plan which provides a cash sum at retirement equal to a percentage of career average pay salary plus bonus subject to a maximum bonus of 150% of salary.
For service up to 1 January 2010, the cash sum accrued at the rate of 15% of career average pay.
Following the changes made in 2009, the cash accrual rate from 1 January 2010 will be 14.1% of career average pay.
Executive directors pay contributions at the same rates as other employees in the plan, being 1.5% of earnings.
In 2009, Linda Hudson also received a 100% match on her contributions to her 401 k plan up to a maximum contribution of 6% of earnings.
From 1 January 2010, the match will be 85% up to a maximum contribution of 6% of salary.
Details of post-retirement benefits for each of the executive directors who served during 2009 are shown in Table D on page 111 and are calculated in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
Other benets Other benefits provided to the executive directors include a car allowance, the private use of a chauffeur-driven car and a cash allowance for medical examination.
Executive directors service contracts It is the Committees policy that executive directors should normally have service contracts that provide for the Company to give the individual 12 months notice of termination.
This policy has been chosen because it provides a reasonable balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals and the need to limit the liabilities of the Company in the event of the termination of a contract.
The executive directors have service contracts with Group companies and details of these are shown below.
Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period Linda Hudson 26 October 2009 amended 8 January 2010 Expiry date 31 December 2010 90 days either party Ian King 27 June 2008 No fixed term 12 months either party George Rose 16 November 1998 amended: 3 December 1999, No fixed term 12 months from the Company, 15 January 2004 and 17 October 2005 6 months from the individual Subject to automatic renewal for one-year periods each year unless either party gives notice of non-renewal.
In the event of the termination of an executive directors contract it is the Committees policy to seek to limit any payment made in lieu of notice to a payment equal to the amount of one years base salary.
The service contracts for two of the executive directors Ian King and George Rose contain specific provisions to the effect that the Company has the right to pay a sum equivalent to 12 months salary in lieu of notice.
Linda Hudson's contract of employment is subject to a fixed term which ends on 31 December 2010 and automatically renews for one year periods thereafter unless one party gives notice of non-renewal.
Separately, there is a 90-day termination provision.
If the employment is a terminated by the Company other than for cause as defined in the contract or in the event it is not extended following her 65th birthday or b she resigns for a Good Reason as defined in her contract, she is entitled to a termination payment equal to i one years base salary, ii a pro-rated bonus for the relevant financial year, and iii the continuation of 18 months medical benefits, plus a further 18 months subsidy of a portion of the premiums or a cash payment in lieu of this benefit.
No executive director has provisions in his or her service contract that relate to a change of control of the Company and neither does the Chairman nor the non-executive directors in their letters of appointment.
Walt Havenstein, who resigned as a director on 21 June 2009, had a service contract dated 1 December 2006 with a notice period of three months from either party, and ceased to be a Group employee on 20 September 2009.
Details of his salary package for 2009 were provided in the 2008 Annual Report and are reported in the tables on pages 109 to 111.
No termination payments were made to Walt Havenstein, and all outstanding long-term incentive awards and share options lapsed.
Policy on external board appointments The long-standing policy of allowing executive directors to hold external non-BAE Systems-related non-executive directorships with the prior approval of the Committee will continue.
The Committee considers that external directorships provide the Companys senior executives with valuable experience that is of benefit to BAE Systems.
It is also considered appropriate for BAE Systems to contribute to the pool of non-executive expertise available for the benefit of the wider business community, thereby reciprocating the benefit that it in turn has received from other organisations which have permitted members of their senior management teams to serve on the BAE Systems Board.
The Committee believes that it is reasonable for the individual executive director to retain any fees received from such appointments given the additional personal responsibility that this entails.
Such fees retained by executive directors in 2009 were as follows: Ian King 40,000 and George Rose 79,500.
CHAIRMANS APPOINTMENT, TERM AND FEES Dick Olver was appointed Chairman on 1 July 2004.
His appointment was for an initial fixed three-year term with effect from 17 May 2004 the date that he was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director and was subsequently extended in 2007 for a second term of three years to 16 May 2010.
Following the approval of the Board under the chairmanship of Sir Peter Mason, Senior Independent Director, it was extended again in 2009 for a third term to 16 May 2013 unless terminated earlier in accordance with the Articles of Association or with either party giving the other not less than six months prior written notice.
The Chairmans appointment is documented in a letter of appointment which is not a contract of employment and he is required to devote no fewer than two days a week to his duties as Chairman.
His appointment as Chairman will automatically terminate if he ceases to be a director of the Company.
His fee, which was set by the Committee at 600,000 per annum for the duration of his second three-year term, will be subject to review in 2010.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 103 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS APPOINTMENT, TERM AND FEES The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but do have letters of appointment detailing the basis of their appointment.
The dates of their original appointment were as follows: Non-executive director Date of appointment Expiry of current term Paul Anderson 08.10.2009 07.10.2012 Phil Carroll 07.09.2005 05.05.2010 Michael Hartnall 10.06.2003 09.06.2012 Andy Inglis 13.06.2007 12.06.2010 Sir Peter Mason 22.01.2003 21.01.2012 Roberto Quarta 07.09.2005 06.09.2011 Nick Rose 08.02.2010 07.02.2013 Carl Symon 11.06.2008 10.06.2011 Ravi Uppal 02.04.2008 01.04.2011 Subject to re-election at the AGM following their appointment and subsequently at intervals of no more than three years in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The non-executive directors are normally appointed for two consecutive three-year terms subject to review after the end of the first three-year period and with any third term of three years being subject to rigorous review and taking into account the need progressively to refresh the Board.
They do not have periods of notice and the Company has no obligation to pay compensation when their appointment terminates.
They are subject to re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment and subsequently at intervals of no more than three years.
Having completed a three-year term of appointment, Sir Nigel Rudd retired from the Board on 31 December 2009 having originally been appointed to the Board on 10 September 2006.
Non-executive directors are proposed by the Nominations Committee and are appointed by the Board on the basis of their experience to provide independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
The letters of appointment for non-executive directors detail the amount of time it is anticipated that the individual will need to devote to his or her duties as a director, being 15 days per year plus ten additional days for chairing a committee or undertaking the role of Senior Independent Director.
The level of their fees is set by the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee to reflect this time commitment and responsibility, and after reviewing practice in other comparable companies.
Having undertaken its review in January 2010, the Committee decided that the non-executive directors fees should remain unchanged at the current time as follows: 2009 and 2010 fee Base fee 66,000 Additional fee for chairing committees: Audit Committee 20,000 Corporate Responsibility Committee 20,000 Remuneration Committee 20,000 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 20,000 Travel allowance per meeting 4,000 The travel allowance of 4,000 per meeting is paid on each occasion that a non-executive directors attendance at a Board meeting necessitates air travel of more than five hours one-way to the meeting location, subject to a maximum of six travel allowances per year.
The table below summarises the fee structure for 2009 and 2010.
Non-executive director 2009 and 2010 fee Chairman Audit Committee 86,000 Chairman Corporate Responsibility Committee 86,000 Chairman Remuneration Committee 86,000 Senior Independent Director 86,000 Other non-executive directors 66,000 Excludes the travel allowance of 4,000 per meeting referred to above.
On behalf of the Board Dick Olver Chairman 17 February 2010 104 www.
com TABULAR INFORMATION ON DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS, SHARE-BASED INCENTIVES, EMOLUMENTS AND PENSIONS TABLE A: DIRECTORS INTERESTS As at 1 January 2009 As at 31 December 2009 Executive Share Executive Share Ordinary Share Matching Performance Ordinary Share Matching Performance shares Option Plan Plan Share Plan shares Option Plan Plan Share Plan 1 P M Anderson 2 P J Carroll 12,000 12,000 M J Hartnall 20,000 20,000 3 L P Hudson 29,473 133,740 99,908 390,549 29,473 133,740 99,908 390,549 A G Inglis 10,000 I G King 497,884 1,270,250 155,821 823,106 678,327 1,132,008 527,437 1,325,953 Sir Peter Mason 25,283 25,283 R L Olver 40,000 40,000 R Quarta G W Rose 619,977 484,679 52,286 780,243 806,114 369,554 227,699 951,739 4 Sir Nigel Rudd 11,400 11,400 C G Symon 10,000 R K Uppal or upon appointment.
1 Appointed as a director on 8 October 2009.
2 The ordinary shares held by Phil Carroll are represented by 3,000 American Depositary Shares.
3 Appointed as a director on 26 October 2009.
4 Retired as a director on 31 December 2009.
The table above gives details of the interests in ordinary shares in BAE Systems plc held by directors and their connected persons for those individuals who were directors of the Company as at 31 December 2009.
There have been no changes in the interests of the current directors listed in the table above between 31 December 2009 and 17 February 2010 with the exception of the interests in the ordinary shares of Ian King and George Rose who have each acquired an additional 105 ordinary shares since 31 December 2009 under the partnership and matching shares elements of the Share Incentive Plan so that their beneficial shareholdings at the date of this report stood at 678,432 and 806,219, respectively.
Nick Rose was appointed to the Board on 8 February 2010.
On his appointment, and at the date of this report, his shareholding in BAE Systems was nil: he subsequently acquired 25,000 ordinary shares in BAE Systems on 19 February 2010.
The Companys register of directors interests which is open to inspection contains full details of directors share interests.
Information subject to audit The Auditors are required to report on the information contained in Tables B, C and D on pages 106 to 111.
1 Subject to a performance condition that has been met.
2 Date exercisable refers to the date on which the portion of the option exercised during the year became exercisable.
The option over shares remaining at the year end is exercisable on the fifth anniversary of grant.
The option over shares remaining at the year end is exercisable in two tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversary of grant.
5 The outstanding award lapsed after the end of the financial year having not met the performance condition.
6 Subject to a performance condition that is yet to be tested.
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN PSP A full description of the PSP is set out on pages 100 and 101.
PSP awards granted since 2008 attract dividends prior to vesting.
TSR PSP nil vesting if the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR at the end of the three-year performance period is outside the top 50% of TSRs achieved by a sectoral comparator group: 25% vesting if TSR is at median 50% : and 100% vesting if TSR is in the top 20%, with vesting on a straight-line basis between these two points.
EPS PSP proportion of the award exercisable is determined by the rate of annual actual EPS growth over the three-year performance period, with nil vesting at annual actual EPS growth of 5% or less, 100% vesting at 11% growth, and vesting on a straight-line basis between these two points.
Awards that satisfy the performance conditions at the end of year three are exercisable in three tranches at the end of years three, four and five.
EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION PLAN EXSOP No options have been granted under this Plan since 2007 and it is intended only to be used in future in exceptional circumstances.
Options granted under this Plan are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of grant.
The maximum duration of an option is ten years.
i 2005-2007 grants 33.33% of each option grant is exercisable if the Company achieves on average real EPS growth pa of 3% but less than 4% over the three-year performance period: 66.67% for real EPS growth pa of 4% but less than 5%: and 100% for real EPS growth of 5% or more.
ii 2004 grant as in i but performance is retested at the end of year five against the full period from grant: and iii 2003 grant as in i but performance is retested at the end of years four and five against the full period from grant.
iv 1999 grant following the BAe MES merger under the predecessor Executive Share Option Scheme: the grant to George Rose was conditional on the satisfaction of a performance condition based on the achievement of merger integration cost savings over a three-year performance period: and the grant to Ian King could only be exercised if the pre-exceptional EPS for any three-year period over the ten-year option life exceeded the sum of inflation for that period and real growth of 9% was achieved.
SHARE MATCHING PLAN SMP MATCHING SHARES A full description of the SMP, under which awards are subject to a three-year performance period, is set out on page 101.
SMP awards attract dividends prior to vesting.
2009 award nil match for actual EPS growth of less than 5% pa increasing uniformly to a 2:1 match at 11% pa growth.
2008 award nil match for actual EPS growth of 5% pa or less, increasing uniformly to a 1:1 match for 8% pa growth.
2007 award nil vesting for real EPS growth pa of less than 3% over the three-year performance period, with one-third of the matched award vesting on average real EPS growth pa of 3% but less than 4%, two-thirds vesting with a growth rate of 4% but less than 5%, and full vesting at growth of 5% or over.
Share price information The mid-market price for the Companys ordinary shares at 31 December 2009 was 359.5p 2008 376.75p.
The range during the year was 306p to 408.25p.
Aggregate amount of gains made by directors The aggregate amount of gains made by directors from the exercise of share options in 2009, as calculated at the date of exercise, was 1,268,104 2008 6,278,313.
The net aggregate value of assets received by directors in 2009 from long-term incentive plans, as calculated at the date of vesting, was 247,044 2008 1,931,858.
Rationale for key performance measures for PSP, ExSOP and SMP EPS importance to major investors as a key indicator of long-term financial performance and value creation.
TSR and secondary financial measure importance to major investors as an indication of both earnings and capital growth relative to major companies in the same sector, and to ensure that awards only vest if there has been a clear improvement in the Companys performance over the relevant period.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 107 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED TABLE B: SHARE OPTIONS AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP AWARDS LINDA HUDSON Exercised Date of Market Granted or released Lapsed Exercise exercise, price on Date from Share 1 January during the during the during the 31 December price Date of release release which Expiry options 2009 year year year 2009 grant or lapse exercisable date TSR 1 PSP 89,160 89,160 30.03.07 30.03.10 30.03.14 TSR 2 PSP 45,881 45,881 26.03.08 26.03.11 26.03.15 EPS 2 PSP 45,882 45,882 26.03.08 26.03.11 26.03.15 TSR 2 PSP 104,813 104,813 24.03.09 24.03.12 24.03.16 EPS 2 PSP 104,813 104,813 24.03.09 24.03.12 24.03.16 180,923 209,626 390,549 3 ExSOP 133,740 133,740 4.57 30.03.07 30.03.10 30.03.17 133,740 133,740 Market Market Granted Vested Lapsed price at date price on 1 January during the during the during the 31 December of award Date of Date of vesting LTIPs 2009 year year year 2009 award vesting 2 SMP 99,908 99,908 3.43 24.03.09 24.03.12 99,908 99,908 Note: Performance conditions for the options and awards set out above are detailed in the notes to Table B on pages 106 and 107.
1 The outstanding award lapsed after the end of the financial year having not met the performance condition.
2 Subject to a performance condition that is yet to be tested.
3 Subject to a performance condition that has been met.
Note: Awards granted to Linda Hudson a US national under the PSP are technically characterised as long-term incentives rather than options as, subject to the attainment of the performance condition, they are delivered automatically on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of grant without the need to exercise an option.
They are shown in the top portion of the table for ease of comparison.
1 Resigned as a director on 21 June 2009 and ceased to be a Group employee on 20 September 2009.
2 As at 21 June 2009, the date that Walt Havenstein resigned from the Board, options and awards outstanding totalled 327,640 under ExSOP, 860,950 under the PSP, and 297,085 under the SMP.
In addition, Walt Havenstein had a cash-settled Stock Appreciation Right SAR over 53,010 ordinary shares granted on 27 November 2000 at a SAR price of 3.73 exercisable from 27 November 2003 until 27 November 2010.
This was exercisable only if growth in pre-exceptional EPS for any three-year period over the ten-year life of the SAR exceeded the sum of inflation for that period and a growth requirement of 9%, which was met.
The SAR lapsed on 20 September 2009.
The 2004 and 2005 PSP awards and the 2005 ExSOP options granted to Walt Havenstein were granted under the Stock Appreciation Rights Schedule to those plans.
The exercise price referred to for the latter is the SAR price.
The Restricted Share Plan RSP was replaced by the SMP in 2007.
The matching award of shares under the former RSP was not historically subject to performance criteria as it was designed to retain key staff and encourage executives to re-invest in Company shares the cash bonuses that they had earned under the annual bonus plan which was itself subject to performance conditions.
Note: Awards granted to Walt Havenstein a US national under the PSP were technically characterised as long-term incentives rather than options as, subject to the attainment of the performance condition, they were delivered automatically on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of grant without the need to exercise an option.
Gains on delivered PSP awards for Walt Havenstein are included in the directors gains on LTIPs figure on page 107 whilst PSP gains for the UK-based directors are included in the share option gains figure.
All emoluments and compensation paid to the directors during the year are shown above.
Where the individual was appointed during the year the amount shown is for the period from appointment.
The benefits received by the UK-based executive directors include, where applicable, the provision of a car allowance, the private use of a chauffeur-driven car and spouse attendance at corporate events.
The benefits received by the Chairman, Dick Olver, include the private use of a chauffeur-driven car and spouse attendance at corporate events.
The benefits received by the US-based executive directors include a cash allowance for a car, medical examination, dental benefits and insured life benefits.
In addition, the benefits received by Linda Hudson also include $8,455 5,400 in respect of private use of a Company plane.
Walt Havenstein also received $442,613 282,695 in respect of normal salary and benefits, including a payment for unused holiday, during the period following his retirement from the Board on 21 June 2009 until he left Group employment on 20 September 2009.
No termination payment was made to Mr Havenstein in respect of his leaving the Board or the Group.
The other pay received by Mike Turner in 2009 comprised the balance 590,625 of the cash element of his special incentive, referred to on page 99 and previously disclosed in the 2008 and 2007 Remuneration reports, which was paid to him in September 2009 following the first anniversary of his retirement.
The special incentive, awarded in October 2007, comprised a contingent cash payment of 1,181,250 and a contingent award of 231,618 shares attracting reinvested dividends releasable in two tranches subject to performance conditions which were subsequently satisfied in full.
On 1 September 2009 the balance of the share element of his special incentive was released to him for nil consideration: the number of shares released comprised the balance 115,809 of the shares under award and 8,241 shares deriving from reinvested dividends.
The market price of the Companys ordinary shares on 1 September 2009 was 315.6p.
The other pay received by the non-executive directors represents the Travel Allowance previously Transatlantic Allowance of 4,000 per meeting as set out on page 104.
Sir Richard Evans retired as a director and Chairman on 30 June 2004.
He remained employed in a part-time customer relationship role and ceased to be an employee on 29 February 2008.
He subsequently became a member of the Companys Home Market Advisory Board for Saudi Arabia.
In 2009 his remuneration was 246,954 2008 265,480 in respect of consultancy fees for his role as a member of the Home Market Advisory Board for Saudi Arabia.
Sir Richard ceased to be a member of the Advisory Board upon the expiry of his agreed contractual term on 28 February 2010.
There were no other payments to former directors during the year other than the Company pension payments to Sir Richard Lapthorne and Sir Peter Gershon referred to in the notes to Table D on page 111.
com TABLE D: POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS Change in Increase in Accrued benefit at Increase in accrued pension Transfer value at Transfer value at value less 31 December accrued after allowing 1 January 31 December Directors directors 1 2 2009 benets for ination 2009 2009 contributions contributions Age NRA pa pa pa 3 W P Havenstein 60 60 175,199 18,728 15,412 1,745,364 1,920,718 2,276 173,078 4 L P Hudson 59 65 347,088 17,638 15,951 229,920 242,180 379 11,881 I G King 53 62 509,944 84,699 75,110 4,672,376 6,780,197 72,000 2,035,821 5 G W Rose 57 60 366,564 35,795 19,256 5,573,907 6,840,222 57,663 1,208,652 Normal Retirement Age 1 Accrued benets may be reduced if they are taken before the normal retirement age of the scheme.
In addition, a longevity adjustment factor applies to uK pension accrued after 5 April 2006.
2 Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
For uK-based directors the assumptions are the same as those used in the calculation of cash equivalents from the schemes.
For uS-based directors the assumptions are the same as those used for accounting disclosures.
The amount shown for Linda Hudson is at 26 October 2009.
The increase in transfer value arising from the change in assumptions is: Walt Havenstein: 53,887: Linda Hudson: 1,858 : Ian King: 855,144: George Rose: 429,879.
3 Walt Havenstein resigned from the Board on 21 June 2009, left the Groups employment on 20 September 2009, and subsequently started to draw his plan benets as an annual pension.
His accrued pension comprises 20,549 from a contributory Qualied Plan and 154,650 from Non-Qualied Plans.
In addition, Walt Havenstein participated in a Section 401 k dened contribution arrangement set up for uS employees in which the Company will match employee contributions up to a limit.
In 2009, the Company paid contributions of $11,025 6,829 into this 401 k arrangement.
Walt Havenstein was paid in uS dollars.
Of the change in the accrued benefit and the transfer value 19,782 and 216,871, respectively, is due to currency movements.
4 Linda Hudson was appointed to the Board on 26 October 2009 and is a member of a uS retirement plan which provides a cash sum at retirement equal to a percentage of career average pay.
The accrued benefit shown above is a cash lump sum amount payable at normal retirement age.
This benefit comprises 44,379 from a contributory Qualied Plan and 302,709 from Non-Qualied Plans.
In addition, Linda Hudson participates in a Section 401 k dened contribution arrangement set up for uS employees in which the Company will match employee contributions up to a limit.
The Company paid no contributions to this 401 k arrangement during the period from 26 October 2009 to 31 December 2009.
Linda Hudson is paid in uS dollars.
Of the change in the accrued benefit and the transfer value 3,512 and 2,450, respectively, is due to currency movements.
5 George Rose has an unapproved retirement arrangement for pensionable service before 5 April 2006 that is partly funded and partly unfunded.
No company contributions have been made to these arrangements during the year.
Sir Peter Gershon and Sir Richard Lapthorne, both former directors, have unfunded pension arrangements.
In 2009, the Company paid Sir Peter Gershon a pension of 109,230 in 2008 a cash lump sum of 334,805 and pension of 18,188 was paid and Sir Richard Lapthorne a pension of 100,058 in 2008 a pension of 96,367 was paid in respect of these arrangements.
