Report of the Remuneration Committee and Directors Remuneration Report This report meets the disclosure requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules and in accordance with usual practice will be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee The remuneration committee consisted throughout the period of Bill Tudor John chairman, with Robert Hiscox and John Barnsley as members.
The committee comprised three independent non-executive directors throughout the year.
Mr Hiscox, is a trustee of an estate containing a material shareholding, but having taken this into account the board has re-confirmed its view that Mr Hiscox is independent and a valued contributor to the remuneration committee.
The remuneration committee met formally four times during the year and all members attended every meeting.
The committee have also communicated informally during the year.
This year New Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC continued to be involved in the set up and implementation of the LTIP.
NBSC have no other connection with the company or its directors as individuals.
The committee s terms of reference are available on the Group s website or on request from the Company Secretary.
Remuneration Policy Grainger s remuneration policy is designed to attract, motivate and retain high calibre individuals to enable the Group to operate strategically for the continued benefit of shareholders, over the long term.
In order to operate this policy, the Remuneration Committee receives information on remuneration packages awarded to directors in comparable organisations and aims to ensure that the rewards paid by Grainger are competitive.
The policy is also designed to align the directors interests with those of shareholders.
This is principally achieved through the use of share-based incentives and by encouraging executive directors to maintain a reasonable shareholding in the Group.
As a guideline, executive directors are expected to hold the equivalent value of at least one year s salary in Grainger shares.
Details of executive directors shareholdings are shown on page 41 Share awards are generally satisfied by the acquisition of shares in the market, so are not dilutive to shareholders.
Share options are satisfied by the issue of new share capital.
Remuneration packages balance both short and long term rewards, as well as performance related pay and non-performance related.
They include salary, bonus and defined contribution pension elements as well as long term share incentive and option schemes.
Usual benefits are also provided.
No executive director is involved in the determination of his own remuneration.
Fees of the non-executive directors, which include increments where a committee chairmanship or senior independent position is held, are determined by the Board as a whole.
The salaries and bonuses of senior management are determined by the executive directors and reported to the remuneration committee.
Senior management also participate in long term incentive scheme arrangements described below.
Usual benefits are also afforded to these individuals.
In this context, senior management are those employees who are members of the Executive Team.
In addition to this, specific bonus schemes were negotiated with certain key senior management during the year, based on their specific business areas, in order to drive performance.
The remuneration committee also review the total level of salaries and bonuses paid to the group as a whole.
This includes reviewing the details of any employee earning over 50,000 or earning a bonus in excess of 5,000.
35 Remuneration Committee and Directors Remuneration Report continued Service Contracts Service contracts were updated during the year to incorporate best practice.
Contract dates and unexpired terms for the directors are as follows: Contract Date Unexpired Term Notice Period Rupert Dickinson 19 July 1996 No fixed term 12 months Andrew Cunningham 26 July 2000 No fixed term 12 months Robin Broadhurst 26 February 2004 5 months 3 months Bill Tudor John 24 February 2005 17 months 3 months John Barnsley 27 February 2003 29 months 3 months Robert Hiscox 6 March 2002 17 months 3 months Henry Pitman 1 May 2007 5 months 3 months Baroness Margaret Ford 3 July 2008 17 months 3 months Calculated as at 30 September 2009 and rounded to the nearest whole month.
Rupert Dickinson retired from the Board on 20 October 2009.
Apart from salary and benefits in relation to the notice period described above, there are no other terms in any of the contracts which would give rise to compensation payable for early termination, or any other liability of the company.
Each non-executive director has specific terms of reference.
Their contracts state an initial one year period, with a continuation subject to review at that time.
The new contracts contain no entitlement to compensation for early termination.
Other Directorships Rupert Dickinson served as a non-executive director of Workspace Group plc throughout the period under review.
Andrew Cunningham served as a non-executive director of The Local Shopping REIT plc until 30 September 2009.
As in the previous year, both executive directors retained the fees paid to them by the respective organisations.
In the year under review, Rupert Dickinson and Andrew Cunningham retained 36,600 and 28,423 respectively.
NONPERFORMANCE RELATED REMUNERATION Basic Salaries and Benefits Basic salaries are reviewed by the remuneration committee annually.
Uplifts are by reference to cost of living, responsibilities and market rates, as for all employees and are performed at the same time of year.
Executive directors and the deputy chairman, Stephen Dickinson, who had part-time executive responsibilities during this period of office, along with other senior members of staff, receive a fully expensed company car, or a car allowance.
All members of staff, including the executive directors, benefit from health and life insurances.
The Chairman s and non-executive directors fees are reviewed on a biennial basis by the whole board.
The non-executives agreed that due to market conditions, they would waive an increase for the period starting 1 October 2009, with the next review date set at 1 October 2010.
Pensions The group contributed 15% of basic salary to the money purchase pension schemes of Rupert Dickinson and Andrew Cunningham.
No other elements of remuneration are pensionable.
Share Schemes open to all Employees The executive directors, and Stephen Dickinson, Deputy Chairman during his period of office, were eligible to participate in two share schemes which are open to all employees with relevant service, subject to the rules of the schemes.
36 Report of the Remuneration Committee and Directors Remuneration Report continued The first is a Save As You Earn scheme SAYE, and the second a Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Both are Inland Revenue approved and therefore subject to the limits prescribed.
Amounts relating to directors participation in the SIP and share options under the SAYE scheme are shown on page 40.
PERFORMANCE RELATED REMUNERATION As should be expected and in accordance with the Combined Code, a significant element of executive directors and senior management s potential remuneration is performance related.
The combination of short and long-term incentives attempt to align the interests of executives and senior management with the interests of shareholders, and to reward significant outperformance of expectations.
Non-executive directors do not receive performance related remuneration.
Annual Discretionary Bonus Each year the remuneration committee considers the award of a bonus to the executive directors, which is at their ultimate discretion.
In the financial year ending 30 September 2009, the Executive Directors, Rupert Dickinson and Andrew Cunningham, participated in an arrangement introduced in 2003 whereby each year a notional provisional bonus amount is calculated by reference to the enhancement of the triple net asset value of Grainger, relative to a theoretical market comparator.
The comparator movement is calculated with regard to the Nationwide and Halifax house price indices and also interest rates using five year swap rates.
The calculated amount is aggregated with the unpaid notional amounts from previous years and each year the remuneration committee consider the appropriate proportion, if any, of this aggregate notional sum to be approved for payment.
The notional balance after any approved payment remains to be taken into account over future years.
Approval of any bonus payment in any year is at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
The intention of the Remuneration Committee is to pay to the relevant executive as bonus in any given year an amount equal to one third of the aggregate unpaid notional amount relating to that executive in that year, subject always to the overriding discretion of the Remuneration Committee to vary this in the light of performance.
In any event bonuses remain capped at 150% of salary and this could only be achieved under exceptional performance conditions.
Andrew Cunningham was paid a bonus of 124,000 being one sixth of the relevant aggregated sum in May 2009 in recognition of his performance and additional responsibilities.
No other bonuses have been paid under these arrangements for the year 2008: no bonus paid.
No additional provisional bonus amount for the year has been added to unpaid notional amounts from previous years 2008: no amounts added As at 30 September 2009 the aggregate unpaid notional amounts to be taken into account going forward were 992,521 in respect of Rupert Dickinson and 619,093 in respect of Andrew Cunningham.
Long Term Incentives Grainger s policy in relation to long term incentive schemes has evolved over time to more closely align the long term interests of executives and senior management with those of shareholders, to reward sustained performance over a number of financial years and to encourage these employees to grow their shareholdings.
The current Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS was approved by shareholders in February 2007.
37 Report of the Remuneration Committee and Directors Remuneration Report continued Current Long Term Incentive Scheme This scheme makes conditional awards of shares to reward performance and retain key staff over rolling three year periods.
The potential award is split into two, with two thirds of the awards being dependent upon the absolute level of increase in NNNAV and one third dependent upon the increase in absolute TSR as follows: Average Annual Growth in NNNAV Percentage of the NNNAV Proportion of an Award which will Vest Less than or equal to Average WACC 0% Equal to Average WACC 3% 100% Between Average WACC Pro rata on a straightline basis between 0% and 100% and Average WACC 3% TSR of the Company over the TSR Percentage of the TSR Proportion of Performance Period an Award which will Vest TSR being less than or equal to 0% 8% compounded p. a.
25.98% growth in total over the TSR Performance Period TSR being equal to or greater than 100% 16% compounded p. a.
56.09% growth in total over the TSR Performance Period Between 8% compounded p. a.
Between 0% and 100% pro-rata on a straight-line basis and 16% compounded p. a.
There is also a matching awards element to the scheme, to encourage executives to develop and maintain a shareholding in the company.
Participants may pledge or buy shares of equivalent value to 30% of their relevant salary and to the extent that performance criteria are met, these shares will be matched one for one at the end of the three year period.
Fundamentally it was considered that absolute measures of performance were suitable because Grainger is unusual in nature and has no natural comparator group.
Grainger is the only listed company of its size to invest primarily in residential property assets.
All other comparably sized property companies are principally commercial or development focussed.
Awards were made under this current scheme on 23 December 2008 and are quantified below.
These performance criteria are believed to be stretching, but realistic and reward executives if Grainger s return to shareholders is significant in absolute terms.
Previous Long Term Incentive Scheme The one prior year award outstanding under the previous long term incentive scheme referred to in last years report lapsed in January 2009.
38 As required by legislation covering the directors remuneration report, the graph below shows TSR based upon share price growth with dividends reinvested for Grainger, compared to the FTSE 250 and the FTSE Real Estate Index.
These comparators have been chosen on the basis that they are the markets within which Grainger operates, albeit that the Real Estate Index comprises mainly commercial property companies.
The auditors have audited the following parts of the remuneration report: 39 On behalf of the board Bill Tudor John Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 40
