UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 38 Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2009 Certain sections of this report are subject to audit and these have The Board reports to shareholders been clearly marked.
The unaudited section of the report deals with the remuneration policy that is to be followed in 2010 and on Directors remuneration as set describes arrangements which applied during 2009. out below.
In preparing this report, the Remuneration Committee of Remuneration Committee During the year, the Committee consisted of Mr S R H Beevor the Board the Committee has who chaired the Committee, Mr G K Maddrell until 15 May 2009, complied with the Companies Act when he stood down from the Board, Mr N P Hall, Mr R S Walker and Mr P M White as from 4 September 2009, all of whom are 2006 and Schedule 8 to the Large independent Non-Executive Directors other than Messrs Maddrell and Medium-sized Companies and White who respectively was and is Chairman of the Board.
Mr M C Allan is invited to attend meetings of the Committee.
and Groups Accounts & Reports The Committee is required annually to approve the remuneration Regulations 2008.
The Report also policy and rewards for the Executive Directors and to monitor the meets the relevant requirements structure and level of remuneration for other senior management.
Mr Allan takes no part in the discussions concerning his own of the Listing Rules of the Financial remuneration, nor does he attend those parts of the meetings of the Committee which discuss that issue.
Services Authority and describes The Committee is able to obtain independent professional advice how the Board has applied the from remuneration and other consultants in order to carry out its Principles of Good Governance in duties.
During the year, such advice was received from Hewitt New Bridge Street, which did not provide any other services relation to directors remuneration.
to the Company during the course of the year.
In addition, A resolution to approve the Report Mr S Spiers, who was the Group HR Director during 2009, provided advice and services to the Committee during the will be proposed at the forthcoming course of the year but did not participate in any discussion Annual General Meeting.
relating to his own remuneration.
During 2009 some of the key issues addressed by the Committee were as follows: reviewing and updating the Companys policy on Executive Directors remuneration to ensure it remained appropriate: reviewing the base salaries of the Executive Directors: setting performance targets in line with the Companys strategy for the annual bonus plan and determining the amounts potentially payable: and reviewing the current long-term incentive arrangements.
The members of the Committee attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and are available to answer shareholders questions about the Directors remuneration.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website.
UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 39 Basic Salary Policy on Remuneration of Executive Directors The basic salary of each Executive Director is reviewed each year.
and Senior Executives Basic salaries are determined taking account of advice received The policy in respect of Directors remuneration for the following from independent sources on the rates of salary for similar roles and subsequent years is to ensure that the remuneration packages in selected groups of comparable companies and the individual it offers are competitive and designed to attract, retain and motivate performance and experience of each Executive.
As stated above, Executive Directors and senior executives of an appropriate calibre.
the Company has agreed the principle that base salaries should Performance-related reward policies are operated which are be set broadly in line with the market median.
designed to provide a significant element of at risk pay, which is only available when good results are achieved.
Having frozen the salaries of the Executive Directors in 2009, the Committee approved the following base salaries with effect The annual bonus scheme is seen as an essential part of total from 1 March 2010. reward and incentivisation for Executive Directors.
Annual bonus targets include elements for performance against financial and Base salary from Base salary from non-financial criteria and personal objectives.
The targets aim 1 March 2009 to 1 March 2010 to Percentage to address the issues facing the business over the coming year.
28 February 2010 28 February 2011 increase M C Allan 385,000 385,000 0% The Committee views long-term incentives as a key way of retaining and aligning the interests of Executive Directors and J J Lister 200,000 220,000 10% other senior executives with shareholders and the Companys J M Tonkiss 210,000 240,000 14.3% corporate goals.
Risk is taken into account when setting the targets and when The salaries of Messrs Tonkiss and Lister had been purposefully determining entitlements under variable pay schemes.
This is set below market levels to reflect their relatively recent done by ensuring that targets, whilst stretching, are realistic: for appointments to their respective roles.
The salary increases for the long-term benefit of the Company: and are achievable without the upcoming year reflect their progress in their roles, although it taking inappropriate business risks.
Remuneration packages are should be noted that the new salaries are still, in the view of the designed to promote long-term sustainable performance and to Committee, below market levels.
promote alignment between the interests of senior executives Benefits in kind include a company car or car allowance and and the Companys shareholders.
The Committee confirmed its policy to pay base salaries at or Only basic salary is pensionable.
around the median level for companies of a similar size taking account of individual experience and performance, and to provide Pension the opportunity for Executives to achieve total remuneration at The Company contributes to a self-investing pension plan of the upper quartile level when justified by very strong performance Mr Allan.
In 2009, the Company contributed an amount equivalent against clearly defined measures.
to 7.5% of Mr Allans salary to such plan.
In determining the remunerations of Executive Directors and other Messrs Lister and Tonkiss are members of The UNITE Group senior executives, the Committee also takes account the level of Personal Pension Scheme, which is a money purchase scheme.
remuneration and pay awards generally to employees of the Group.
The Company contributes 12.5% of salary into the scheme.
During 2009, a benchmarking review of the current market positioning of the Groups executive remuneration was undertaken on behalf of the Committee using a comparator of other Real Estate companies and a pan sector of companies of similar size to the Company.
That review indicated that the base salary and total remuneration of Mr M C Allan was broadly at the market median, whilst the remuneration of the other Executive Directors was positioned below market levels.
However, in using comparative pay survey data, the Committee treats the data with caution, recognising the risk of an upward pay ratchet.
The main components of the Executive Directors remuneration packages are: Governance 2945 UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 40 Directors Remuneration Report continued Performance Related Bonus After application of the individual performance multiplier, the above has resulted in the actual performance related bonus payments The Group operates an annual performance related bonus awarded to Messrs M C Allan, J M Tonkiss and J J Lister ranging scheme which is designed to reward outstanding contributions between 49.2% and 60.5 % of their respective basic salaries.
and encourage the achievement of targeted levels of performance In 2008, bonus payments to the Executive Directors ranged in over the short term.
Under the scheme Executive Directors basic amounts equivalent to between 34% and 43% of base salary.
bonus entitlements for 2009 have been calculated by reference to performance targets set in relation to profitability: increases in net In accordance with the Companys Guidance for Executive asset value: the net amount of cash generated from capital activities Directors Shareholdings see below, 50% of the bonus payable and the year-end free cash balance: customer satisfaction and to each of Messrs M C Allan and J M Tonkiss will be satisfied by employee satisfaction.
For the 2010 bonus scheme, performance an allocation of shares in the Company under The UNITE Group targets have been set in relation to broadly the same criteria.
plc Share Bonus Plan the Share Bonus Plan, and will be held in the Companys Employee Share Ownership Trust the ESOT Subject to minimum targets being achieved in relation to those for three years, whilst 100% of the bonus payable to Mr J J Lister performance criteria, basic bonus entitlements have been will be paid in cash.
calculated on a sliding scale of amounts equivalent to between 50% and 120% of base salary, in accordance with which The Remuneration Committee has decided that the Executive on target performance would have resulted in a basic bonus Directors being the only employees holding allocations of shares entitlement of an amount equivalent to 75% of base salary.
under the Share Bonus Plan pursuant to awards made in 2008 and 2009, should be given the opportunity to elect to convert The performance related bonus is not pensionable and such awards into forfeitable share awards prior to the expiry of the Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the scheme.
Participants who elect to convert their awards To determine the actual bonus payment of an Executive Director, will be pay tax on the value of such awards in the 2009 10 tax year, a multiplier, ranging between 0.5 and 1.2 is applied against the although the forfeitable shares will be held subject to the normal basic bonus entitlement of the relevant Executive Director.
That terms of the Share Bonus Plan including the same good and bad multiplier is determined following the Performance Development leaver provisions as applied to the original share awards, until the Programme review of each Executive Director which is carried third anniversary of the date of the original award.
out at the end of the year, and reflects the strength of that Long-term Incentives Directors individual performance over the course of the year.
The Group seeks to encourage and reward long-term performance As a result of the above, 2009 bonus payments for Executive by providing incentives linked to the long-term performance of the Directors could have ranged in amounts up to 144% of base Companys shares.
These incentives were, prior to the adoption of salary.
However, bonus payments at the higher end of that range The UNITE Group plc Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, provided would only have been made subject to the achievement of in the form of share options and details of the subsisting options extremely stretching performance targets by the Company awarded to the Directors are set out in the auditable part of and exceptional individual performance by the relevant Director.
The performance related bonuses awarded in respect of the Under the LTIP, Executive Directors and senior managers may year ended 31 December 2009 reflect basic bonus entitlements receive a conditional award of shares in the Company each year, calculated in accordance with the sliding scale referred to above, which vest dependent on the extent to which performance of 56.55% of basic salary.
That percentage was arrived as a result conditions selected by the Remuneration Committee are satisfied of the Group having achieved bonus entitlements in relation to net over a three year measurement period.
The maximum limit for asset value, year-end free cash balance, cash raised from capital individual awards is 100% of base salary per annum.
Bonus entitlements were not achieved in relation to profitability and customer satisfaction.
UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 41 For awards in 2010 as was the case for awards made in previous Service Contracts and Notice Periods years, performance conditions will be based on growth in net In accordance with general market practice, each of the Executive asset value and the total shareholder return performance of the Directors has a rolling service contract requiring 12 months notice Company, each applying to 50% of an award.
For that element of termination on either side.
Such contracts contain no specific of an award based on growth in net asset value, a target net asset provision for compensation for loss of office, other than an obligation value for the end of the three year measurement period will be set to pay for any notice period waived by the Company.
by the Remuneration Committee and lodged with the Companys The dates of the current Executive Directors service contracts are auditors.
However, for reasons of commercial sensitivity, the target is not publicly disclosed.
At the end of the measurement period, as follows: if the actual net asset value is less than 80% of the target value, none of the shares the subject of that element of the award will vest.
M C Allan 31 October 1999 If the actual net asset value is 116% or more of the target value, J M Tonkiss 22 June 2001 then all the shares the subject of that element of the award will vest.
28 March 2002 J J Lister If the actual net asset value is equal to or greater than 80% of the target value, but less than 116%, the number of shares that will Each of the Non-Executive Directors has a specific letter of vest will be calculated on a straight line basis.
Under awards made engagement, the dates of which are set out below: prior to 2009, 45% of the total number of shares the subject of that element of the award would vest if the actual net asset value was 80% of the target value, with 100% of such shares vesting if the P M White 10 January 2009 actual value was 116% or more of the target value.
However, for N P Hall 6 March 2003 awards made in 2009 and subsequently, only 30% of an award 20 February 2004 S R H Beevor will vest if 80% of the target value is achieved.
R Walker 3 November 2005 In relation to that element of an award referable to total shareholder return, the performance of the Company will be measured over Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three a three-year measurement period, against the performance of years, subject to normal provisions as to retirement by rotation.
For the awards made in 2010, Subsequent terms of three years may be awarded.
Current the comparator group will be those companies comprising the appointments will expire at the Annual General Meeting in 2011 FTSE 350 Real Estate Super Sector Index at the beginning of in the case of Mr R S Walker: at the Annual General Meeting in the measurement period and which are still quoted at the end 2012 in the case of Messrs N P Hall and P M White: and at the of that period.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the Annual General Meeting in 2013 in the case of Mr S R H Beevor.
constituents of that comparator group provide an appropriate The appointment and re-appointment and the remuneration of comparison external benchmark for the Companys performance.
Non-Executive Directors are matters reserved for the full Board.
For the achievement of median-ranked performance, 33% of that The basic fee payable to each of the Non-Executive Directors part of the award vests.
If the Company is ranked in the top 25% during 2009 was 35,000 per annum, with the Chairmen of the of the comparator group, then all the shares the subject of that Audit and Remuneration Committees being paid an additional element of the award will vest, whilst no such shares will vest if it 7,000 and 6,500 respectively.
The Senior Independent Director is below the median.
If the Company is ranked between median also received an additional payment of 4,500 per annum.
and the upper quartile, the number of shares that will vest will be The additional fees payable to the chairmen of the Audit and between 33% and 100% of the total number of shares the subject Remuneration Committees and to the Senior Independent Director of that element of the award, calculated on a straight-line basis.
reflect the increased duties attributable to fulfilling those roles.
The same vesting scale applies to the total shareholder return With effect from 1 January 2010 it was agreed to increase the elements of awards made prior to 2010. fee payable to the Chairman of the Board to 112,500 per annum Irrespective of the net asset value and total shareholder return and to increase the basic fee payable to each Non-Executive performance, no shares will vest under either element of an award Director to 39,000.
It was also agreed to increase the fee payable unless the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the underlying for chairing the Audit Committee to 8,000 per annum.
The fees financial performance of the Company over the performance payable for chairing the Remuneration Committee and for being period is satisfactory.
No element of the LTIP awards made in 2006 Senior Independent Director were not increased.
vested and it is considered unlikely that any element of the LTIP awards made in 2007 will vest.
Governance 2945 UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 42 Total Shareholder Return Executive Director Shareholding Guidelines The following graph charts the total shareholder return of The Groups policy in relation to shareholdings in the Company by the Company and the FTSE 350 Real Estate Super Sector Executive Directors is for the Chief Executive to acquire a holding Index over the five year period from 31 December 2004 to excluding shares held conditionally pursuant to LTIP awards, 31 December 2009. equivalent in value to twice basic salary.
For other Executive Directors, the policy is for them to accumulate a holding again Total Shareholder Return excluding shares held conditionally pursuant to LTIP awards, equivalent in value to one times basic salary.
The valuation of the 200 respective holdings is made by reference to the closing mid-market 180 price of the Companys shares on the day following the preliminary announcement of the Companys year-end results.
If on that date 160 the valuation of the relevant Directors holding is below the guideline 140 level, then 50% or such lesser percentage as is required to take the relevant Directors holding up to the guideline level, of the 120 bonus payable to that Director in respect of the previous financial 100 year is satisfied by an allocation of shares in the Company held in 80 the ESOT.
Subject to the Directors continued employment within the Group, such shares are transferred to the Director on or around 60 the third anniversary of the original allocation.
40 20 0 UNITE FTSE 350 Real Estate Whilst there is no comparator index or group of companies which truly reflects the activities of the Group, the FTSE 350 Real Estate Super Sector Index the constituent members of which are all property holding and or development companies or real estate investment trusts within the UK, was chosen as it reflects trends within the UK property market generally and tends to be the index against which analysts judge the performance of the Company.
Satisfied by an allocation of shares in the Company held in the ESOT.
Benefits receivable consist primarily of company car or car allowance and private health care insurance.
1 The fees paid in respect of Mr S R H Beevor were paid to Grosvenor Investments Limited, which company made available the services of Mr Beevor.
2 The fees paid to each of Messrs G K Maddrell and N A Porter in 2009 relate to the period 1 January 2009 to 15 May 2009, on which latter date both Mr Maddrell and Mr Porter stood down from the Board.
Pensions During the year Mr J M Tonkiss and Mr J J Lister participated in The UNITE Group Personal Pension Scheme, which is a money purchase scheme, in relation to whom the Company contributed respectively the sums of 26,250 and 25,000 in the year.
The Company also made contributions of 26,950 to a self investing pension scheme of Mr M C Allan.
Gains made by Unapproved Scheme was based on the total shareholder return Mr Allan equate to 46,796.72. of the Company against companies included in the FTSE Small Companies Index excluding investment trusts over the three-year The closing mid-market price on the day of exercise of options period from the date of grant.
Vesting of the other half was based by Mr N A Porter was 277p per share.
Gains made by Mr Porter on the Companys net asset growth exceeding the average net equate to 487,063.85. asset growth of companies included in the FTSE Small Companies As at 31 December 2009, the middle market price for ordinary Index excluding investment trusts over the three-year period from shares in the Company was 299.5p per share.
During the course the date of grant.
Options granted under the Unapproved Scheme of the year, the market price of the Companys shares ranged from after 1 January 2004 were subject to revised performance criteria 38.5p to 300p per ordinary share.
based solely on total shareholder return against companies included in the FTSE Small Companies Index excluding Of the options referred to in the table above, 20,477 of the options investments trusts.
awarded to Mr N A Porter were awarded pursuant to The UNITE Group plc Approved Company Share Option Scheme the Approved Scheme.
Those options lapsed when Mr Porter resigned as a Director.
All other options were granted pursuant to The UNITE Group plc Unapproved Share Option Scheme the Unapproved Scheme.
All options were granted for no consideration.
Options granted under the Approved Scheme were not made subject to performance conditions, which was considered appropriate in view of the relatively small number of options that may be granted to individuals under such schemes i. e. options over shares with a market value, as at the date of grant, of no more than 30,000.
Those details should also be taken as out on page 30. forming part of the auditable part of this Report.
No variations By order of the Board have been made to the terms or conditions of any awards.
S R H Beevor The fair value in respect of Directors share options and LTIP Chairman of the Remuneration Committee awards recognised in the Income Statement is as follows: 3 March 2010 2009 2008 M C Allan 82,566 118,217 J M Tonkiss 46,968 61,654 J J Lister 27,356 41,205 156,890 221,076
