Remuneration report The Boards report to shareholders on remuneration and b determine the specific remuneration levels of details of the compensation and contractual arrangements the chairman, the executive directors and other for directors are set out below.
This report has been prepared senior employees: in compliance with Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006 c ensure that appropriate performance targets are set and the Large and Medium - Sized Companies and Group and that any payments made to executive directors Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, which impose and senior employees reflect achievement against certain statutory requirements for the disclosure of directors such targets: remuneration.
The Remuneration report the Report also d consider individual awards to executive directors and meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the senior employees under all incentive schemes: UK Listing Authority and describes how the Company has complied with the Combined Code throughout the year to e consider any award which might result in an employee 30 September 2009 as it relates to directors remuneration.
receiving a total remuneration package of 250,000 A resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the or more: forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
f consider the recruitment of any employee on a basic The Regulations require the auditors to report to shareholders salary of 125,000 or more or with a basic salary plus on the auditable part of the Report and to state whether, guaranteed bonus of 125,000 or more: in their opinion, that part of the Report has been properly g determine the size of the annual bonus pool: prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Regulations.
The tables detailing directors h approve the award of any annual bonus in excess emoluments, interests in deferred shares, share options and of 100,000: shares awarded under the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan i consider any redundancy or severance payment which on pages 43 to 45 have been audited.
The remainder of the exceeds the terms of the Companys standard policies, Report, which is unaudited, sets out the remuneration policy subject to a fide minimis limit of 25,000: that applied during 2009 and describes arrangements which are intended to apply for 2010. j ensure that the Company maintains contact with its principal shareholders on remuneration matters, and to Remuneration committee demonstrate that decisions on executive remuneration are taken independently and are complementary to the The current members of the remuneration committee financial and commercial well-being of the Company: the committee are Sir Malcolm Rifkind chairman, Anita Frew, Simon Troughton and Giles Weaver, all of k approve all substantial changes to the Groups pension whom are independent non-executive directors.
All arrangements: of the members served throughout the year under l report to shareholders in accordance with relevant legal review except Simon Troughton who was appointed requirements and associated codes of practice.
on 29 July 2009, replacing Roger Cornick who resigned membership of the Committee on the same day.
Their The terms of reference of the committee, which are reviewed biographical details are shown on pages 34 to 36. annually, are available on request and are published on the Companys website.
The committee, which operates on the basis of detailed written terms of reference, has been established by the The committee is authorised to take external advice in board to: order to fulfil its duties and appointed an external firm of consultants,  LLP, to advise on the a determine and recommend to the Board the levels of salaries and composition of benefits packages Companys policy on remuneration of executive of the executive directors and other senior employees.
directors and senior employees:  LLP also provide the Group with remuneration and other advisory services.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration policy Executive remuneration The Groups remuneration policy is designed to reflect the Executive remuneration comprises a number of elements: importance of recruiting, retaining and motivating senior i Basic salary executives of the calibre necessary to maintain and improve The salaries of all employees, including executive the Groups position in the asset management sector.
The directors, are reviewed annually and are determined by policy seeks to reward performance in a manner which reference to external market research.
The Groups policy aligns the interests of clients, shareholders, executives and is to pay salaries which are market competitive in the other employees.
The remuneration policy will support the asset management sector as this will enable the Companys aim, which is to maximise long-term shareholder retention and recruitment of the key talent required to value.
To meet this aim, the Company's strategy, contained achieve the Groups strategy.
The Group participated in within the chairman's statement on pages 4 to 6, the McLagan Partners 2008 compensation survey and the continues to be followed and is reflected closely in the Investment Management Reward Survey 2009 carried out remuneration policy.
Both provided salary The remuneration policy, which applies to executive directors comparisons for a range of employees across the and senior employees, will remain unchanged for 2010 and Aberdeen Group, including the executive directors.
The aim, within the overall policy design of addition,  LLP provided data and retention and motivation, is to pay basic salaries and award comment on the salaries and benefits packages for the benefit packages which are reasonable and competitive executive directors and other senior employees.
The within the asset management sector.
In addition, the policy committee also considered information included in other is designed, and will remain designed, to deliver additional publicly available research and survey results.
Having rewards through appropriate incentive schemes, both annual taken into consideration all relevant factors, the and long term.
These are directly linked to performance at committee has taken the decision to maintain executive both a corporate and an individual level.
directors' salaries at the same level as last year.
The committee recognises that any remuneration policy ii Annual bonus must be sufficiently flexible to take account of changes in The policy is to recognise corporate and individual the business environment.
In accordance with this need achievements each year through an appropriate annual for flexibility, the committee takes into account the overall bonus scheme.
The aggregate amount of bonus available competitiveness of the total remuneration packages of all in any year is dependent on the Groups overall senior executives.
The committee has reviewed remuneration performance and profitability.
Consideration will also be in light of the current conditions and remains satisfied that given to the levels of bonuses paid in the marketplace.
the current remuneration policy and framework support the Individual awards, payable to all members of staff and achievement of the Company's long terms goals and will assist which are non-pensionable, are determined by a rigorous in the maximisation of long term shareholder value.
When assessment of achievement against defined objectives, justified by performance, the at risk performance elements and are reviewed and approved by the committee.
The will form the most significant element of total remuneration bonus awarded in any year will be paid partly in cash for executive directors and senior employees.
The committee with a further element to be settled by the award of the has considered the levels of remuneration paid throughout the Companys shares, which will vest in tranches over the Group, having regard to the advice of  following three year period.
A significant proportion of LLP and having also consulted with Roger Cornick and Martin the executive directors remuneration is expected to be Gilbert when considering the remuneration packages of the paid by annual bonus, such awards to be based on the executive directors and senior employees.
As a consequence achievement of defined objectives.
For the current year, of the current economic climate and the Group's overall all employees and executive directors eligible for an performance and profitability, the committee has agreed that annual bonus will receive 20% of their awards in cash overall bonus awards should be significantly reduced, with and 80% in deferred shares.
The objectives may vary that being awarded to executive directors being reduced by each year to ensure that they are linked to the principal approximately 25%, while more generally, bonuses have been objectives of the Group, but for 2009 the principal reduced on average by 21% from those paid in 2008. objectives selected by the committee for the executive directors, as with the previous year, focused on the Outlined below are the details of the individual reward integration of the businesses acquired during the year, components of the remuneration policy.
In providing details, management of costs and achievement of operating the report identifies those elements which are performance efficiencies and ensuring key client and staff retention.
In linked and the participation of the executive directors in them.
addition, during the year the committee requested that 42 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Martin Gilbert ensure the successful delivery of the The participant will not obtain absolute ownership of any Mitsubishi relationship: that Andrew Laing continue with of the shares until the end of the measurement period oversight of the US operations and retain close control of and then only to the extent that the performance targets the Property division: and that Bill Rattray continue to have been satisfied.
Participants will be entitled to seek efficiencies in the capital structure of the Company.
receive any dividends paid on the shares during the measurement period, even though the shares held will Martin Gilbert has been awarded a bonus of 1,453,125 not have vested unconditionally.
However, any for meeting his defined objectives for the year which overpayment of dividends arising on shares which do not included those detailed above.
309,375 of this award will subsequently vest will be recovered by deduction from be paid in cash and 1,143,750 will be used to acquire a annual bonus awards.
number of the Companys shares which will vest in equal tranches in December 2010, 2011 and 2012.
Similarly, LTIP Incentive Option awards will be made over a specified number of shares and, following the third Andrew Laing has been awarded a bonus of 220,000 for anniversary of the date of grant, the participant will be meeting his defined objectives for the year which told the extent to which the LTIP Incentive Option has included those detailed above.
60,000 of this award will vested.
The total vested number of shares will then be be paid in cash and 160,000 will be used to acquire a split into three equal tranches, the first tranche being number of the Companys shares which will vest in equal exercisable from the vesting date, the second tranche tranches in December 2010, 2011 and 2012. one year after vesting and the third tranche two years Bill Rattray has been awarded a bonus of 206,250 for after vesting.
meeting his defined objectives for the year which This deferral of the acquisition of vested shares will included those detailed above.
56,250 of this award will provide an additional incentive for the award holder and be paid in cash and 150,000 will be used to acquire a continue to link his interests with that of all other number of the Companys shares which will vest in equal shareholders.
LTIP Incentive Options must be exercised tranches in December 2010, 2011 and 2012. before the tenth anniversary of the grant date.
In line with the Groups remuneration policy of retaining Participants will not be entitled to receive dividends on flexibility, and in common with practice in the asset LTIP Incentive Option shares until the LTIP Incentive management sector, it has been decided to continue the Option has been exercised.
policy of not imposing any maxima based on a vesting of shares over which an award has been made relationship to basic salary.
will be dependent upon the extent to which the iii Long Term Incentive Plan performance target has been satisfied.
The committee The Group operates a share based Long Term Incentive has reviewed the appropriateness of the existing criterion Plan LTIP which was approved and adopted by and has decided that there should be no changes for Shareholders on 24 March 2005.
The LTIP is administered awards to be made in 2009 and 2010.
The performance by an independent professional trustee based in the target which will determine the extent to which any LTIP Channel Islands the Trustee which, when exercising its award will vest requires the growth in earnings per share discretion, will have regard to the recommendations of over the relevant measurement period to exceed the the remuneration committee.
After taking into account average movement in the stock markets in which the the recommendations of the committee, the Trustee will assets managed by the Group are invested.
make awards under the LTIP to selected executive This criterion has been chosen as being reflective of directors and other senior executives.
success in the asset management sector as it compares The LTIP encourages focus on the longer term the Groups performance to a dynamic and meaningful performance of the Group against an appropriate group comparator.
The committee will thereafter consider of comparator companies based on the increase in whether these targets remain appropriate and earnings per share over a three year period.
Awards can challenging and any amendments to these targets in be made in either of two forms: an LTIP Conditional respect of intended awards in later years will be disclosed Ownership Award or an LTIP Incentive Option.
LTIP in the Remuneration report for 2010.
Conditional Ownership Awards will be made of a a if earnings per share have increased over the specified number of shares and take the form of the measurement period by a percentage that is at least acquisition of shares by a participant on terms which 5% per annum greater than the average movement in mean that the ownership of the shares remains the stock markets over the same period then 30% of conditional during the relevant measurement period.
the LTIP award will vest: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 43 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED b if earnings per share have increased over the In addition to the performance condition summarised measurement period by a percentage that is at least above, the Plan rules state that no award will vest unless, 10% per annum greater than the average movement in in the opinion of the committee, the underlying financial the stock markets over the same period then 100% of performance of the Company has been satisfactory over the LTIP award will vest: the relevant measurement period.
The length of the measurement period for any award will be three years.
c growth in earnings per share that falls between these limits will result in a pro rated vesting of the LTIP award The life of the LTIP will be ten years and no awards may occurring between 30% and 100% depending upon therefore be made after 24 March 2015.
LTIP awards over the actual growth in earnings per share: ordinary shares are designed to incentivise senior executives in a manner which is consistent with the d if growth in earnings per share over the measurement creation of value for shareholders.
period is less than the lower limit set out in paragraph a above no part of the award made under the LTIP will On 16 December 2008, a total of 4,033,400 shares vest, the award will lapse and the participant will cease issued in 2005, under the LTIP Conditional Ownership to have any entitlement to any of the shares over Award vested fully into the names of the individual which the award was originally made.
directors and employees at a price of 96.75p per share.
The weighted average growth in the relevant market The movement in the stock markets will be measured by indices over the measurement period from 1 October indices appropriate to the assets managed by the Group 2005 to 30 September 2008 was 35.6%.
As described and shall be determined by the committee.
The basket of above, in order to achieve full vesting, the Company was indices currently identified as being representative of the required to grow its underlying earnings per share by assets managed by the Group include the FTSE All-Share, 65.6% over the same period.
The actual growth in the Russell 1000, FTSE Europe ex UK, FTSE Asia Pacific ex Company's underlying EPS over the same period was Japan, FTSE Japan, MSCI Emerging Markets, the FTSE-A 268.4%.
In light of this growth, the committee confirmed British Government All Stocks, the Lehman US Aggregate that, in their opinion, the underlying financial Bond and IPD Pan European Property Index.
performance of the Company has been satisfactory and For the purposes of calculating earnings per share for any therefore full vesting of the awards was permitted.
period, adjustments will be made to the earnings per As at the date of this Report, LTIP Conditional Ownership share figure disclosed in the audited financial statements Awards have been made in respect of 2,031,841 ordinary to exclude the effects of i amortisation and impairment shares which have not yet vested, equating to of intangible assets: ii impairment of goodwill: iii any approximately 0.2% of the current issued share capital.
charges arising from share options and LTIP awards: iv Included within this total are awards over 1,108,305 exceptional items, unless the committee consider this to ordinary shares on which the performance criterion has be inappropriate: and v any other adjustments deemed not been met and will lapse in accordance with the rules.
reasonable and appropriate by the committee.
Details of the awards which have been made to directors To the extent that an LTIP Conditional Ownership Award of the Company under the LTIP are shown on page 50. has not vested, shares will be re-acquired from relevant As at the date of this Report, LTIP Incentive Options have participants by the Trustee for a nominal consideration of been made in respect of 18,100,000 ordinary shares, 1.
LTIP Incentive Options that do not meet the which have not yet vested.
This equates to approximately performance criteria will lapse on the third anniversary of 1.8% of the current issued share capital.
The committee remains satisfied that the performance condition is considered to be an appropriate measure of the Company's success within the asset management sector and is clearly linked to the focus on improving efficiency and profitability.
44 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The committee intends to recommend further LTIP Conditional Ownership Awards over 177,831 shares to the executive directors, which equates to approximately 0.02% of the current issued share capital.
The proposed awards to the executive directors are as follows: LTIP Conditional Ownership Number of shares Martin Gilbert 67,022 Andrew Laing 57,192 Bill Rattray 53,617 It remains the committees intention not to recommend vi Life assurance awards to any one individual in excess of 100% of All permanent employees including executive directors annual salary in any one year except in exceptional are included in the Group life assurance scheme which circumstances, for example to aid recruitment or provides death in service benefits, currently amounting retention of staff.
However, as reported above, an to seven times their basic annual salary.
element of annual bonus is also awarded in the form vii Executive share option scheme of shares with deferred vesting conditions.
The Group has an executive share option scheme which iv Private medical cover is approved by the Inland Revenue and was approved by Private health care is offered to all executive directors shareholders prior to its introduction.
An unapproved and employees who also have the option to cover their schedule was added to this scheme in 1999 to permit partners and unmarried dependent children.
options to be granted within institutional guidelines but in excess of the reduced limits on approved options v Pension imposed by the Government.
In March 2004 the scheme Executives, including executive directors, are entitled to reached the end of the ten year period during which the membership of the Groups defined contribution pension grant of options was permitted.
Options were granted at arrangements.
The employers contribution to this the discretion of the committee, for no consideration, scheme on behalf of all permanent employees, including and were based on assessments of the individuals executive directors, is 20% of basic salary.
expected contribution to future Company performance.
In light of changes to pensions legislation introduced in All options outstanding are now capable of being the UK from 6 April 2006, certain of the Groups UK exercised, all having met their performance criteria: that employees have elected for employer contributions to earnings per share, before amortisation and impairment the scheme to cease.
In these cases, the committee has of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill and approved additional cash payments to be made as an exceptional items increased over the period of three addition to basic salary, such that the overall cost to the years from the date of grant, by 5% per annum in excess Group is no greater than the pension contribution which of the average growth in the stock markets in which the would otherwise have been made.
Any similar requests Groups AuM were invested.
At the date of this Report, which may be made by employees in future will be awards of options over 4,251,200 ordinary shares remain treated in the same manner.
No such request will arise in in issue see note 24.
Details of share options held by respect of the Groups legacy defined benefit schemes, all the executive directors are shown on page 50. of which are closed to future accrual.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 45 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Total shareholder return Service contracts The Regulations require the inclusion of a graph which The executive directors have current service contracts, details illustrates the total shareholder return for a holding in the of which are summarised below.
Executive directors are Companys shares against a broad equity market index.
permitted to accept a limited number of directorships outwith The FTSE All-Share Index has been used on the basis that it the Group, recognising that this can assist in the development includes all UK listed stocks, including the Companys ordinary of a directors knowledge and capabilities.
The graphs below also include as a comparator the appointments are approved in advance by the Board.
Where FTSE All-Share General Financial Index.
The Board considers the appointment is accepted in furtherance of the Groups this to be an appropriate index against which to measure business any fees received are remitted to the Company.
If performance because it includes all other UK listed financial the appointment is not connected to the Groups business, stocks and therefore represents the closest comparator for the director is entitled to retain any fees received.
Both of these indices are calculated on a earned fees of 117,000 for Martin Gilberts services as a nontotal return basis, ie assuming reinvestment of dividends.
executive director of several companies.
Martin Gilbert earned and retained fees of 186,300 for acting as chairman of The Regulations require this information to be provided for FirstGroup plc.
The Board has a policy which requires executive the five year period to 30 September 2009.
The Board has directors to acquire and retain a beneficial shareholding in decided to include an additional graph showing equivalent the Company equivalent to 100% of salary, to be acquired information for a three year period, consistent with the period over a period of no more than five years.
The holdings of the over which the vesting of long-term incentives is measured.
executive directors comfortably exceed this requirement.
Provision of compensation C Name Date of contract Notice period Unexpired term for loss of office A B M J Gilbert 30 August 1996 twelve six months Rolling twelve six months One year's gross remuneration A B A A Laing 30 August 1996 twelve six months Rolling twelve six months One year's gross remuneration A B W J Rattray 30 August 1996 twelve six months Rolling twelve six months One year's gross remuneration A Amended by Deed of variation dated 30 November 2001.
B Twelve months notice given by the Company or six months notice given by the director.
C If the Company decides to terminate the directors appointment without giving the required period of notice then the director is entitled to be paid one years remuneration, which will include the value of all benefits including any bonus to which the director would otherwise have been entitled.
The directors contracts also provide for termination on three months notice if, in the opinion of the Board and having given the director adequate opportunity to improve, the director has failed to perform at a satisfactory standard.
In such a case, the directors contracts do not provide for any liquidated damages to be paid.
Five year total shareholder return Three year total shareholder return dividends reinvested to 30 September 2009 dividends reinvested to 30 September 2009 % % 40 350 30 300 20 250 10 200 0 150 -10 -20 100 -30 50 -40 0 -50 -50 -60 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Sep 08 Sep 09 Sep 06 Sep 07 Sep 08 Sep 09 Aberdeen Asset Management FTSE All-Share General Financial total return FTSE All-Share total return 46 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 iii the third, sixth or ninth anniversaries of his her Non-executive directors appointment if the nominations committee does not The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by approve the extension of his her appointment: or the Board.
Non-executive directors are engaged under letters of appointment and they do not have contracts of service.
iv a director being found guilty of misconduct: or The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the v a director not being re-elected by the shareholders Companys registered office during normal business hours and following retirement by rotation at an Annual General are available on the Companys website.
normally terminate on: The non-executive directors do not participate in the annual i a director choosing to resign voluntarily: or bonus scheme or the Long Term Incentive Plan.
The chairman, ii a director being prohibited from serving by law, who also chairs the nominations committee, receives a fee of bankruptcy or illness: or 150,000 per annum.
Fees are paid to the other non-executive directors at the following annual rates: For services as a director 39,000 For services as senior independent director 5,000 For chairmanship of audit committee 15,000 For membership of audit committee 5,500 For chairmanship of remuneration committee 11,000 For membership of remuneration committee 5,500 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 47 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors emoluments audited information 2009 Salary Bonus Other Total Pension & fees payments benefits before pensions costs Total '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 ExECUTIvE M J Gilbert 400 1,453 72 1,925 1,925 A A Laing 250 220 2 472 50 522 W J Rattray 250 206 1 457 50 507 900 1,879 75 2,854 100 2,954 NON-ExECUTIvE R C Cornick 115 115 115 D H Waters 59 59 59 Sir M Rifkind 50 50 50 C G H Weaver 50 50 50 A M Frew 50 50 50 C L A Irby 50 50 50 S R v Troughton 7 7 7 G W Fusenig K Miyanaga 381 381 381 1,281 1,879 75 3,235 100 3,335 Proposed LTIP awards to executive directors are set out on page 45.
Martin Gilbert elected for employer contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension arrangement on his behalf to cease and as a consequence, he has received an additional cash payment of 70,000 for the year to 30 September 2009 2008: 70,000.
This amount is included within Other benefits in the tables above.
Full details are contained in note v Pension on page 45.
These interests represent ordinary shares which will vest on the dates stated.
The value of the awards at the award date are included in the table of directors' emoluments for the relevant year.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 49 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors interests in share options audited information Exercised Exercise Earliest Latest Status of Date of grant 2008 during year 2009 price exercise exercise performance M J Gilbert 8.12.99 240,000 240,000 185.0p Dec 2004 Dec 2009 Achieved 23.01.04 413,000 413,000 59.0p Jan 2007 Jan 2014 Achieved 653,000 653,000 A A Laing 8.12.99 200,000 200,000 185.0p Dec 2004 Dec 2009 Achieved 11.6.
The Remuneration report was approved by the Board of directors on 9 December 2009 and signed on its behalf by: Sir Malcolm Rifkind Non-executive director 50 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
