Directors remuneration report Andy Pomfret Chairman, remuneration committee This report has been prepared by the remuneration committee the committee of Beazley plc and approved by the board of Beazley plc.
The report complies with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
Beazley plc became the parent company of the Beazley group on 9 June 2009.
Prior to this the parent company of the group was Beazley Group plc.
The information provided in the directors remuneration report represents those amounts recorded under Beazley Group plc from 1 January 2009 to 8 June 2009, and for Beazley plc from 9 June 2009 to 31 December 2009.
Section headings marked indicate the information in that section that has been audited.
Remuneration committee The committee consists of four non-executive directors and during the year the members included Dudley Fishburn as chairman resigned 31 December 2009, Andy Pomfret appointed chairman 1 January 2010, Dan Jones, Gordon Hamilton and Padraic OConnor appointed 9 June 2009.
The board views each of these directors as independent.
The committee met six times during the year.
The terms of reference of the committee are available on the companys website.
During the course of the year the committee considered, in addition to normally reviewed items, the proposed LTIP amendments, a review of the FSA draft code on remuneration, a review of incentive arrangements and the remuneration policy for the group.
The committee also approved adjustments to share incentive grants arising from the rights issue and the amendments to the share plans proposed at the AGM in April and at the general meeting in November.
The committee has oversight of remuneration policy.
The main aim of the policy is to ensure that management and staff are remunerated fairly and in such a manner as to facilitate the recruitment, retention and motivation of suitably qualified personnel.
The intention is to set packages at competitive levels and there is a significant element of performance-related pay, with the performance conditions ensuring that executive directors interests are aligned to the business objectives of the company as well as delivering enhanced shareholder returns.
The structures of our packages supports the meritocracy, an important part of Beazleys culture.
When formulating the on-going remuneration policy, regard was taken of the various new guidelines that have been published over the last year including the FSAs Code of Practice requirements although Beazley is not directly subject to them, the draft Walker review as well as new guidelines by institutional shareholders.
The committee believes the company is adopting an approach which is consistent with and takes account of the risk profile of the company.
The committee considers the individual remuneration packages of the deputy chairman, chief executive, executive directors and executive committee members.
It also has oversight of the salary and bonus awards of individuals outside the executive committee who are either direct reports of executive committee members or who have basic salaries over 200,000 as well as the overall bonus pool and total incentives paid by the company.
The committee receives advice from a variety of sources.
Hewitt New Bridge Street are the committees remuneration advisors and advise on ongoing issues.
The committee also calls on specialist advice from a variety of additional sources including Bluefin Advisory Services Limited for benefits and pensions advice, Watson Wyatt publications for salary data and Equiniti for employee share incentives matters.
None of the advisors have any other connection with the company.
In addition, input was received by the committee during the year from the chief executive, head of talent management and the company secretary.
However, no individual plays a part in the determination of their own remuneration.
Remuneration policy statement The key elements of the companys remuneration policies are: To remunerate management and staff fairly and in such a manner as to facilitate the recruitment, retention and motivation of suitably qualified personnel: To set base salaries to reflect the individuals roles and responsibilities.
These are reviewed annually: 58 www.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements That performance-related remuneration is an essential motivation to management and staff and should be structured to ensure that executives interests are aligned with shareholders: That individual rewards should reflect the group objectives but be dependent on the profitability of the group as well as take account of the operational risks: That reward potentials should be market competitive although internal promotions may be set below market packages with the view to increasing them to the market rate over time: and That executives pay should include an element of downside risk by having shareholdings and deferred shares.
The general philosophy underlying the reward strategy for executive directors is the same as that applied to all other employees.
Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the company and data on comparable positions in other similar organisations are taken into consideration when determining executive directors remuneration.
The talent management function has an input into the design of the remuneration arrangements.
Risk management, through the group actuary, is involved in setting business plans for the underwriting units.
These business plans are used in determining bonus targets for underwriters and underwriting risk is taken into account when setting performance targets.
In line with our peer group within the Lloyds market, there are no upper limits on the amounts payable to individuals under shortterm incentives.
The committee has considered whether it is appropriate to set an upper limit and has agreed that such a limit would adversely affect the companys competitive position and would not be in the interests of shareholders.
The incentive payments, which comprise short-term incentive payments and share incentive plans, are awarded on a discretionary basis, and are determined by the committee in respect of performance of both the individual and the company.
As the return on equity excluding the impact of foreign exchange on non-monetary items of the group has improved this year, the committee reflected this in the incentive awards made to directors.
Individual aspects of remuneration The main elements of the remuneration package payable to each executive director comprise basic salary, short-term incentive payments, pension contributions, long-term share-based incentives and other benefits.
A summary of the key elements of short and long term remuneration across the company is as follows: Element Objective Conditions Base salary To recognise responsibilities None.
Reviewed annually Benefits To provide basic benefit cover None.
Reviewed annually Pension To provide funding for retirement Defined contribution or salary supplement based on salary Enterprise bonus To link cash reward to company return A minimum group return on equity is achieved.
Apart from on equity the LTIP this is the only bonus pool that executive directors participate in Deferred shares To defer a proportion of enterprise bonus in shares Vesting dependent on continued employment for three years Profit related pay plan To align underwriters reward with the profitability Profit to be achieved on the relevant underwriting of their account account as measured at the 33 month point and later.
Executive directors do not participate in this plan Support bonus plan To align staff bonus with individual performance Participation is limited to staff members not on the and achievement of objectives executive or in receipt of profit related pay bonus.
Executive directors do not participate in this plan Retention shares To retain key staff Full vesting dependent on continued employment over six years LTIP To align the senior management team to the From 2010 vesting based on NAV performance and out-performance of the group by setting stretching continued employment performance targets, which in turn should lead to enhanced shareholder returns Staff underwriting To align underwriters to the results of Deferred bonuses at risk from underwriting results their syndicate voluntary arrangement Beazley Annual Report 2009 59 Directors remuneration report continued Salary The committee reviews salaries annually taking into account levels in comparable positions in other similar financial service companies.
It also considers the performance of the group and individual as well as the average salary increase for employees across the whole group.
The annual salary reviews take place in December of each year, with new salaries effective from 1 January.
Following salary freezes in 2008 and 2009, the committee has decided that there should be salary increases for 2010 for some executive directors to ensure that salaries remain competitive in relation to the roles performed.
In this respect the salaries of Andrew Horton, Jonathan Gray, Neil Maidment and Clive Washbourn were increased to reflect respective market positioning, development in their roles and increased responsibilities.
From May 2009 executive directors received fees in respect of their role as directors in Beazley plc.
Martin Bride joined on 27 April 2009 and was appointed to the board on 5 May 2009.
Benefits Benefits include private medical insurance for the director and his immediate family, permanent health insurance, death in service benefit at four times annual salary, travel insurance, health-club membership, season ticket, car parking and the provision of either a company car or a monthly car allowance.
Pensions The company provides pension entitlements to directors that are defined benefit in nature.
Future service accruals ceased on 31 March 2006 for the Beazley Furlonge Limited Final Salary Pension Scheme.
Only base salary is pensionable.
Details of the entitlements of those who served as directors during the year are as follows: Increase in Transfer value Transfer value Transfer value Increase in Accrued accrued benefits Increase in of A less of accrued of accrued transfer value benefit at excluding accrued benefits directors benefits at benefits at less directors 31 Dec 2009 inflation A including inflation contributions 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2008 contributions N H Furlonge 153,394 14,151 14,151 312,915 3,391,856 2,617,080 774,776 J G Gray 27,982 0 0 0 608,126 486,657 121,468 N P Maidment 32,273 0 0 0 472,030 360,235 111,795 CA Washbourn 15,107 0 0 0 236,963 182,972 53,991 The transfer basis used in the above calculations is yet to be ratified by the trustees.
The trustees are expected to agree the new transfer value regime basis in February 2010.
In general the transfer values have increased during the year because inflationary expectations increased.
The increase in accrued benefits in respect of N H Furlonge relate to the crystallisation of minimum pension underpin.
The pension benefits for directors and staff are now provided by way of a defined contribution scheme arranged through Fidelity, which is non-contributory.
The company contributes 15% of salary for directors.
Andrew Beazley and Nick Furlonge do not participate in this plan but, instead, receive a salary supplement in lieu of pension.
No other pension provisions are made.
The normal retirement age for pension calculation purposes is 60 years.
A spouses pension is the equivalent of two-thirds of the members pension before any commutation payable on the members death after retirement.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Enterprise bonus pool The pool is calculated as a percentage of profit subject to a minimum group return on equity target.
The proportion of profit allocated to the pool increases as higher returns on equity are achieved.
The targets set reflect the expectations of returns on equity: Pre tax Post tax Enterprise Year underlying profit underlying ROE pool 2009 134m 21% 14.4m 2008 50m 10.7% 3.9m 2007 131m 28.8% 18.3m This approach better aligns the interests of directors and staff with shareholders and ensures that bonuses are affordable.
The pool is calculated based on the post tax return for the financial year having adjusted for the proposed enterprise pool payments.
The calculation uses the underlying profit which excludes the charges or credits that arise from the IFRS foreign exchange adjustments on non-monetary items.
The enterprise bonus pool may be awarded in cash and deferred shares and covers discretionary bonuses for executive directors this is the only cash bonus plan they participate in, discretionary performance related bonus for underwriters in addition to the profit related pay plan and is used to enhance the support bonus plan when group performance warrants.
The employers national insurance contribution is charged to the enterprise pool.
The proportion of this pool allocated among executive directors is at the discretion of the committee, taking into account the individuals contribution and the performance of their division if appropriate.
In determining the award levels for 2009, as the groups post tax return on equity excluding the impact of foreign exchange on non-monetary items had increased compared with 2008, the enterprise bonus pool was larger than in 2008.
In the past the committee had discretion to pay part of the enterprise pool in deferred shares that vest after three years subject to continued employment.
The committee has formalised the arrangement from 2009 and depending on the level of bonus a specified percentage will be paid in deferred shares, which vest after three years subject to continued employment.
Deferral will range from 0% for low bonuses to 35% of bonuses at stretch performance.
Given the bonuses earned for 2009, 25% of the executive directors awards will be in shares with exception of Andrew Beazley.
The committee believes that this level of deferral, along with the LTIP awards, results in a substantial portion of the package being deferred for at least three years.
Underwriter bonus plan profit related pay plan Underwriters participate in a profit related pay plan based upon the profitability of their underwriting account.
No executive directors participate in the profit related pay plan.
The objective of profit related pay is to align the interests of the group and the individual through aligning underwriters reward to the long-term profitability of their portfolio.
Profit related pay is awarded irrespective of the results of the group and is capped at a maximum of 150% of salary.
Underwriters that have significant influence over a portfolio are offered this arrangement.
There is no automatic eligibility.
This bonus is awarded as cash and is based upon a fixed proportion of profit achieved on the relevant underwriting account as measured at the 33 month point and later.
Any movements in prior years are reflected in future year payments as the accounts develop after the 33 month point.
For long-tail accounts the class is still relatively immature at the 33 month stage and therefore payments will be modest.
They will receive further payouts in years 4, 5 and 6 and even later as the account matures.
Therefore each year they could be receiving payouts from multiple years of account.
If the account deteriorates as it develops any payouts are clawed back through reductions in future profit related pay bonuses.
The fixed proportion is calculated based upon profit targets which are set through the business planning process and reviewed by a committee formed of executive committee members and functional specialists including the group actuary and the head of talent management.
Underwriting risk is taken into account when setting profit targets.
In addition to profit related pay underwriters are also eligible to receive a discretionary bonus, based upon performance, from the enterprise bonus pool.
A proportion of this bonus may be paid in deferred shares, which vest after three years subject to continued employment.
Support bonus plan Employees who are not members of the executive and who do not participate in the underwriters profit related pay plan participate in a discretionary bonus pool.
This pool provides the employees with a discretionary award of an annual performance bonus that reflects overall individual performance including meeting annual objectives.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 61 Directors remuneration report continued A proportion of this award may also be dependent on the groups return on equity and therefore allocated from the enterprise bonus pool.
Share plans Retention shares The retention plan is now only used in exceptional circumstances to ensure key individuals have an adequate retention package and it forms part of an individuals bonus in respect of performance and or service over one financial year.
In future, individuals participating in the LTIP will not be able to receive retention plan awards including new executive directors prior to receiving their first LTIP award.
The retention plan is operated on a discretionary basis with awards vesting at 25% per annum over years three to six.
Share incentive plans The companys long-term, share-based incentives include a long-term incentive plan LTIP, a save-as-you-earn scheme SAYE and a Section 423 US savings-related share option plan, which are detailed below.
The company also has two further share-based incentives: a tax-approved and an unapproved option plan, however no options have been granted under these plans since 2005.
The share plans permit 10% of the companys issued share capital to be issued pursuant to options LTIP awards in a 10-year period.
Since November 2002, 2.5% of this allowance 2008: 2.6% has been allocated for option and LTIP awards.
The long-term incentive plan LTIP Participation in the LTIP is restricted to employees and full-time executive directors of the company.
Participants are selected on a discretionary basis and receive awards of free shares in the form of a nil-cost option, thus, no exercise price is payable.
The options will normally be exercisable, subject to meeting the performance conditions set out below and provided that the participant continues in the employment of the company at that date, between the third and tenth anniversaries of grant.
Dividends do not accrue on ordinary shares prior to vesting.
A general meeting was held on 6 November 2009 at which the amendments to the plan were approved.
The key features of the plan are: Annual awards are made to senior management: The maximum annual limit under the LTIP was increased to 200% of salary.
For 2010, the CEO will receive an award of 200% of salary and the other executive directors 150% of salary: All participants in the LTIP will be expected to build a shareholding in Beazley equal to their annual award level e. g. 200% of salary for the CEO.
They will have three years to build up this shareholding from the date of grant of the first awards under the amended plan: From 2010, 50% of the award will be measured over three years and 50% of the award will be measured over five years.
Awards will vest at the end of the relevant performance period: From 2010 awards, performance will be measured solely by net asset value per share NAVps performance in excess of the risk-free rate RFR see targets below.
The company decided to use a sole NAVps target as this is a key measure of the companys financial performance and strong, sustained NAVps performance should in turn lead to enhanced shareholder returns: and The committee currently intends to impose the same conditions as are described above for awards made after 2010.
Performance conditions for awards from 2010 onwards: NAVps performance % of award vesting NAVps RFR 10% p. a.
Sliding scale between 25% and 100% 2009 and earlier LTIP awards: For awards made in 2009 and earlier the key features of the plan are: Annual awards are made to senior executives: The maximum annual limit is 100% of salary: Performance is measured over three years: For 2006 to 2009 awards performance is based 50% on NAVps performance in excess of the risk-free rate and 50% on TSR growth compared with that of members of a comparator group: and There were different performance conditions for shares worth up to 50% of salary basic shares and shares worth more than 50% of salary additional shares.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Basic shares shares worth up to 50% of salary NAVps performance % of NAV award vesting Relative TSR growth % of TSR award vesting NAVps RFR 5% p. a.
0% Below median 0% NAVps RFR 5% p. a.
100% Median 25% Upper quartile rank 100% Between median and upper quartile rank Sliding scale between 25% and 100% Additional shares shares worth more than 50% of salary NAVps performance % of NAV award vesting Relative TSR growth % of TSR award vesting NAVps RFR 5% p. a.
Sliding scale between Between 75% and 90% Sliding scale between 0% and 100% 0% and 100% The companies in the comparator group for the TSR element are: 2006 2007 2008 2009 Alea Amlin Atrium Underwriting Brit Insurance Holdings Catlin Group Chaucer Holdings Hardy Underwriting Highway Insurance Holdings Hiscox Kiln Lancashire Holdings Novae Wellington Underwriting Details of entitlements under this plan, which are all subject to the above performance conditions, for directors who served during the period, are set out in the next table.
In 2009 awards over shares worth 200,000 were made to each of the executive directors which included awards of additional shares i. e. over 50% of salary which were made as exceptional awards.
The LTIP awards that were granted in March 2006 met the performance criteria in part and 50% of the awards vested in March 2009.
The results are independently calculated by Hewitt New Bridge Street and verified by the committee.
Total shareholder return: The graph shows Beazleys performance, measured by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE 350 Non-Life Insurance Index and the FTSE All-Share Index, also measured by TSR.
Beazley is a constituent of both these indices.
The graph illustrates the movement of Beazleys TSR, assuming dividends are reinvested on the ex dividend date, against that of the indices for the five year period to 31 December 2009.
Total shareholder return Source: Thomson Financial 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09 This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2009, of 100 invested in Beazley plc on 31 December 2004 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Non-Life Insurance.
Beazley plc FTSE 350 Non-life insurance index FTSE All share index Beazley Annual Report 2009 63 Directors remuneration report continued The share option plan The company operates a HMRC approved plan and an unapproved plan.
Participation in the plan is restricted to employees and full-time executive directors of Beazley group and participants are selected on a discretionary basis.
All options granted under this plan have vested.
It is the committees intention to only grant options under this plan in exceptional circumstances and no options have been granted since 2005.
SAYE scheme A HMRC approved SAYE scheme was launched in May 2003 for the benefit of UK-based employees.
The scheme offers a three-year savings contract period with options being offered at a 20% discount to the share price on grant.
Monthly contributions are made through payroll deduction on behalf of participating employees.
Options may be exercised early in the event of an employees death or retirement, certain other cessations of employment and certain Beazley group change in control events.
Savings-related share option plan for US employees The Beazley plc savings-related share option plan for US employees permits all eligible US-based employees to purchase shares of Beazley plc at a discount of up to 15% to the shares fair market value.
The plan is designed to comply with the terms of Section 423 of the US Internal Revenue Code and is similar to the SAYE scheme operated for UK-based Beazley employees.
Participants elect to participate by entering into a savings contract under which the participant agrees to have a portion of his or her compensation withheld in a savings plan for the purpose of exercising options granted under the plan.
The maximum amount of compensation that may be withheld each month under all savings contracts for any participant may not exceed $500.
After a two-year period, participants may exercise their options to purchase Beazley shares at the exercise price.
The shares purchased are non-transferable for at least 12 months following exercise.
Unexercised options lapse twenty-seven months after the date on which the options were granted.
Beazley staff underwriting Traditionally, Lloyds underwriters contributed their personal capital to syndicates in which they worked.
With the move to corporate provision of capital, individual membership of Lloyds has declined significantly.
The committee feels that having personal capital at risk in the syndicate is an important part of the remuneration policy and provides a healthy counterbalance to incentivisation through bonuses and long-term incentive awards.
The company has operated the Beazley Staff Underwriting Plan for this purpose since 2004 and executive directors and other selected staff are invited to participate through bonus deferral with an element of their cash incentives at risk as capital commitments.
These capital commitments can be lost in full if underwriting performance is poor.
The group funds the initial capital for the participants in the scheme.
The initial capital outlay is then reimbursed by individual bonus deferral.
The aim is for individuals to fund their capital within three years.
To date over 100 employees of the group have committed to put at risk 4.2m of bonuses to the underwriting results of syndicate 623.
Of the total at risk, 3.9m has already been deferred from the bonuses awarded.
2 This is the return on a voluntary investment which is at risk.
3 The directors defer bonus entitlements to support their underwriting through Beazley Staff Underwriting Limited.
The scheme was fully capitalised by the directors for the 2009 participation and therefore no element of bonus was deferred.
4 The notional dividend is a cash bonus equal to dividends the directors would have received during the vesting period of the deferred and retention shares.
The payment of these notional dividends to directors during the 12 months to 31 December 2008 was not disclosed in the remuneration report for that period.
The figures in the column showing the total remuneration for the 12 months to 31 December 2008 have therefore been adjusted from those contained in the remuneration report for that period to include the notional dividends paid to directors during that period.
This is so that the aggregate figures in this table for the year ended 31 December 2008 and the year ended 31 December 2009 are shown on a consistent basis.
5 The payments were in respect of participation in the staff underwriting scheme and notional dividends in respect of his deferred and retention shares which vested in 2009.
The payment for the staff underwriting scheme represents his final payment under the scheme and includes 236,050 of previously announced deferred bonuses and 113,280 as a commutation for profits due for the 2007 and 2008 years of account and interest due on his deferred bonuses.
6 This payment includes medical expenses which were paid to him during the year ended 31 December 2009.
The medical expenses paid to Andrew Beazley during the year ended 31 December 2008 were not disclosed in the remuneration report for that period.
The figures in the column showing the total remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2008 have therefore been adjusted from those contained in that remuneration report for that period to include the medical expenses paid to Andrew Beazley during that period.
7 The figures in this column have been adjusted from the same figures contained in the remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2008 in the ways described in notes 4 and 6 above so that they are prepared consistently with the aggregate figures in the above table for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Martin Brides recruitment arrangements On 27 April 2009 the company agreed to grant Martin Bride conditional free share awards over a total of 350,000 shares.
The awards were made under Listing Rule 9.4.
2R 2 to facilitate Mr Brides recruitment and were made in lieu of long-term share incentives forgone upon joining.
Awards over 150,000 shares and 200,000 shares were granted on terms substantially similar to the terms of the Beazley retention plan and the Beazley deferred share plan respectively.
The 150,000 shares will vest in four equal tranches on each of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth anniversaries of the date of grant and the 200,000 shares will normally vest in full on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 65 Directors remuneration report continued Directors share scheme interests Details of share scheme interests of those directors who served during the period are as follows: Closing share Rights At 31 price on date Earliest date Scheme At 31 Dec 2008 issue Awarded Exercised Lapsed Dec 2009 Ex.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Closing share Rights At 31 price on date Earliest date Scheme At 31 Dec 2008 issue Awarded Exercised Lapsed Dec 2009 Ex.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 67 Directors remuneration report continued Service contracts The company has service contracts with executive directors.
It is company policy that such contracts contain notice periods, from the company or employee, of not more than twelve months.
Details of the contracts currently in place for executive directors are as follows: Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period Provision for compensation A F Beazley 1 July 2009 n a 12 months Nil M Bride 9 June 2009 n a 12 months Nil N H Furlonge 9 June 2009 n a 12 months Nil J G Gray 9 June 2009 n a 12 months Nil D A Horton 9 June 2009 n a 12 months Nil N P Maidment 9 June 2009 n a 12 months Nil C A Washbourn 9 June 2009 n a 12 months Nil The unexpired term is not applicable as each of the executive directors contract is on a rolling basis.
In May 2009 the directors were issued with new service contracts following the redomiciliation to Ireland.
The service contracts remain with Beazley Management Limited.
The directors also have appointment letters as directors of Beazley plc from May 2009.
Subject to the notice requirements described above, there is no provision in the service agreements for compensation to be payable on early termination of the contract.
The company will normally phase any payments of compensation which will also be subject to negotiation and mitigation.
Non-executive directors The fees of non-executive directors, other than the chairman, are determined by the board.
The fees for the chairman are determined by the board, following a recommendation from the remuneration committee.
When setting fee levels consideration is given to levels in comparable companies for comparable services in addition to the time commitment and responsibilities of the individual director.
No non-executive director participates in the companys incentive arrangements or pension plan.
Non-executive directors are appointed for fixed terms, normally for three years, and may be reappointed for future terms.
Nonexecutive directors are typically appointed through a selection process that assesses if the candidate brings the desired competence and skills to the group.
The board has identified several key competencies for non-executive directors to complement the existing skill-set of the executive directors.
These competencies are as follows: Insurance sector expertise: Asset management skills: Public company and corporate governance experience: Risk management skills: and Finance skills.
Every two years a review of the fees and other income payable takes place and was last carried out by the board in December 2008.
Details of the non-executive directors terms of appointment and their fees for 2010 are set out below: Commencement date of current Current appointment Other annual fees letter Expires fees J G W Agnew 105,000 20 Mar 2009 31 Dec 2011 A D Pomfret 50,000 20 Mar 2009 31 Dec 2010 14,000 D L Jones 50,000 20 Mar 2009 31 Dec 2011 A G K Hamilton 50,000 20 Mar 2009 31 Dec 2011 10,000 G P Blunden 50,000 1 Jan 2010 31 Dec 2012 V J Sheridan 60,000 9 Jun 2009 31 Dec 2011 P OConnor 60,000 13 Mar 2009 31 Dec 2011 Other fees relates to the additional fee payable to A D Pomfret in respect of his chairmanship of the remuneration committee and as senior independent director and to A G K Hamilton in respect of his chairmanship of the audit committee.
G P Blundens shareholding at the date of appointment on 1 January 2010 was 107,156.
Executive directors other interests N H Furlonge holds a non-executive appointment with the Lloyds franchise board.
He was appointed to this role on 4 February 2008.
He receives a fee of 55,000 per annum in respect of this appointment.
Annual general meeting A resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting to be held on 24 March 2010 to approve this directors remuneration report.
I am keen to encourage an ongoing dialogue with shareholders.
Accordingly, please feel free to contact me, if you would like to discuss any matter arising from this report or on remuneration issues generally, either by writing to me at the companys head office or by email through Sian Coope at sian.
com By order of the board Andy Pomfret Chairman of the remuneration committee 9 February 2010 Beazley Annual Report 2009 69
