THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 31 Supply of Information To enable the Directors of the Board to fulfil their roles, the Manager ensures that all Directors have timely access to all relevant management, financial and regulatory information.
On being appointed to the Board, Directors are fully briefed as to their responsibilities and are continually updated throughout their term in office on industry and regulatory matters.
The Manager and the Board have formulated a programme of induction training for newly appointed Directors.
They have also put arrangements in place to address ongoing training requirements of Directors which include briefings from key members of the Managers staff and which ensure that Directors can keep up to date with new legislation and changing risks.
The Board meets on a regular basis at least four times each year.
Additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Regular contact is maintained by the Manager with the Board between formal meetings.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes a review of the investment portfolio with a report from the Manager on the current investment position and outlook, strategic direction, performance against stock market indices and the Companys peer group, asset allocation, gearing policy, cash management, revenue forecasts for the financial year, marketing and shareholder relations, corporate governance, regulatory changes and industry and other issues.
Appointment, Re-election, Tenure and the Nomination Committee All Directors are members of the Nomination Committee which is chaired by Scott Dobbie.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its duties and responsibilities which include regularly evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and whether to recommend the re-election of those Directors seeking re-election at each AGM to shareholders.
The Committee is also responsible for identifying and nominating for approval of the Board, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise.
No Director has a contract of employment with the Company.
Directors terms and conditions of appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company.
They will also be available at the AGM.
The Articles of Association require that a Director shall be subject to election at the first AGM after appointment and re-election at least every three years thereafter.
Directors may, by notice in writing, remove any Director from the Board without notice or compensation.
Board, Committee and Directors Performance Appraisal The Directors recognise the importance of the AIC Codes recommendations in respect of evaluating the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees and individual Directors.
The Board conducted a full evaluation of its activities and performance in March 2008.
The critical issues arising from this review concerned the performance of the Companys previous manager and the frequency and nature of meetings and other contacts between Board and manager.
A new Manager, Invesco Perpetual, was appointed in September 2008, when meeting and other arrangements were changed to reflect the results of the earlier Board evaluation.
These new arrangements have been in place now for only six months and it is not intended to repeat the full review until Autumn 2009, with a full years experience in working with the new Manager.
The Committees of the Board, judged fully satisfactory at the last review, have continued virtually unchanged and will also be re-assessed later in 2009.
Directors Remuneration The Board as a whole reviews Directors remuneration periodically.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 28 and 29.
Accountability and Audit The Directors responsibilities with regard to the financial statements are set out on page 36 and the Independent Auditors Report is set out on pages 37 and 38.
