Directors remuneration report BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors remuneration report Constitution and operation Part 3 Non-executive directors Each member of the remuneration committee is subject to annual re-election as a director of the company.
The board considers all remuneration committee members to be independent see page 72.
They have no personal financial interest, other than as The board sets the level of remuneration for all non-executive directors shareholders, in the committees decisions.
within a limit approved from time to time by shareholders.
Key elements The committee met eight times in the period under review.
of BPs policy on non-executive director remuneration include: The chairman of the board attends meetings of the committee and Remuneration should be sufficient to attract and retain world-class Mr Svanberg attended meetings prior to becoming chairman on non-executive talent.
Remuneration of non-executive directors is proposed by the chairman The committee is accountable to shareholders through its annual and agreed by the board.
report on executive directors remuneration.
It will consider the outcome Remuneration practice should be consistent with recognized best of the vote at the AGM on the directors remuneration report and take practice standards for non-executive directors remuneration.
into account the views of shareholders in its future decisions.
The Remuneration should be in the form of cash fees, payable monthly.
committee values its dialogue with major shareholders on remuneration Non-executive directors should not receive share options from the matters.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to establish a holding in BP Advice shares of the equivalent value of one years base fee.
Mr Aronson, an independent consultant, is the committees secretary and independent adviser.
Advice was also received from Mr Jackson, the Process company secretary, and from the company secretarys office, which is BP reviews the quantum and structure of chairman and non-executive independent of executive management and reports to the chairman of remuneration on an annual basis.
The chairmans remuneration is the board.
reviewed by the remuneration committee, which makes a The committee also appoints external advisers to provide recommendation to the board: the chairman does not vote on his own specialist advice and services on particular remuneration matters.
Non-executive director remuneration is reviewed by the The independence of the advice is subject to annual review.
chairman, who makes a recommendation to the board: non-executive In 2009, the committee continued to engage Towers Watson directors do not vote on their own remuneration.
as its principal external adviser.
Towers Watson also provided other remuneration and benefits advice to parts of the group.
2009 review of chairman and non-executive director remuneration Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP provided legal advice on In 2009, the chairman reviewed non-executive director remuneration specific matters to the committee, as well as providing some legal advice taking into account the review completed in 2008.
The chairman made a to the group.
recommendation to the board which was agreed to maintain the 2008 Ernst & Young reviewed the calculations on the financial-based structure until a further review in 2010. targets that form the basis of the performance-related pay for executive Carl-Henric Svanberg was appointed to the board in September directors, that is, the annual bonus and share element awards described 2009.
At the time of his appointment, the remuneration committee on page 83, to ensure they met an independent, objective standard.
They looked at a comparison of remuneration for FTSE and international also provided audit, audit-related and taxation services for the group.
chairmen in determining his fee.
The committee determined that in common with the previous chairman, he should receive the use of a chauffeured car, a maintained office for company business and security advice.
In addition, the committee recognized that the appointment was to be Mr Svanbergs main commitment and as he would be performing a proportion of his duties from Sweden, limited but appropriate secretarial support in Sweden would be provided.
Mr Svanberg is also eligible for a single relocation allowance of up to 100,000 to cover expenses incurred in relocating to London from Sweden.
Mr Svanberg received the basic non-executive director fee and transatlantic attendance allowance for the period between his appointment and his assumption of the role of chairman on 1 January 2010.
On his appointment as chairman in 2010, the chairmans fee increased to 750,000.
91 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors remuneration report Fee structure The amount of the superannuation gratuity is calculated according to The table below shows the fee structure for non-executive directors on the following: 1 January 2010: Service on the board is taken up to 1 July 2002.
Payment is calculated as 10% of the total remuneration received in thousand either the year to 1 July 2002 or calendar year 2001 whichever is the Fee level greater multiplied by the number of years a non-executive director a Chairman 750 served on the board until 1 July 2002. b Senior independent director 120 There is a limit on the payment equivalent to a maximum of 10 years Board member 75 service.
c Audit committee and SEEAC chairmanship fees 30 Peter Sutherland, who retired on 31 December 2009, is entitled to a c Remuneration committee chairmanship fee 20 superannuation gratuity of 280,000 in line with the policy arrangements d Committee membership fee 5 agreed in 2002 and outlined above.
Mr Sutherland has asked that the full Transatlantic attendance allowance 5 balance of the gratuity be donated to an educational foundation.
a The chairman remains ineligible for committee chairmanship and membership fees or transatlantic Non-executive directors of Amoco Corporation attendance allowance.
b The senior independent director is eligible for committee chairmanship fees and transatlantic Non-executive directors who were formerly non-executive directors of attendance allowance plus any committee membership fees.
Amoco Corporation have residual entitlements under the Amoco Nonc Committee chairmen do not receive an additional membership fee for the committee they chair.
d Employee Directors Restricted Stock Plan.
Directors were allocated For members of the SEEAC, audit and remuneration committees.
restricted stock in remuneration for their service on the board of Amoco a Corporation prior to its merger with BP in 1998.
On merger, interests in Remuneration of non-executive directors in 2009 Amoco shares in the plan were converted into interests in BP ADSs.
The thousand restricted stock will vest on the retirement of the non-executive director 2008 2009 at the age of 70 or earlier at the discretion of the board.
Since the P D Sutherland 600 600 merger, no further entitlements have accrued to any director under the A Burgmans 90 93 plan.
The residual interests, as interests in a long-term incentive scheme, Sir William Castell 108 115 are set out in the table below: C B Carroll 93 90 b G David 100 118 Interest in BP ADSs Date on E B Davis, Jr 105 105 at 1 Jan 2009 and which director a b D J Flint 90 85 31 Dec 2009 reaches age 70 Dr D S Julius 110 105 E B Davis, Jr 4,490 5 Aug 2014 Sir Ian Prosser 170 165 c a No awards were granted and no awards lapsed during the year.
The awards were granted over C-H Svanberg n a 30 Amoco stock prior to the merger but their notional weighted average market value at the date of Directors leaving the board in 2009 grant applying the subsequent merger ratio of 0.66167 of a BP ADS for every Amoco share was $27.87 per BP ADS.
Sir Tom McKillop 95 33 b For the purposes of the regulations, the date on which the director retires from the board at or after the age of 70 is the end of the qualifying period.
If the director retires prior to this date, the board a This information has been subject to audit.
b Also received 4,166 for serving as a member of BPs technology advisory committee.
Past directors Mr Miles who was a non-executive director of BP until April 2006 While fees were held at 2008 levels, in 2009 actual fees paid to nonwas appointed as a director and non-executive chairman of BP Pension executive directors were affected by changes in committee membership Trustees Limited in October 2006.
During 2009, he received 150,000 and the number of transatlantic meetings to which an attendance for this role.
Dr Walter Massey who retired as a non-executive director of BP No share or share option awards were made to any non-executive in April 2008 was appointed to the BP America External Advisory Council director in respect of service to the board during 2009. in April 2008 for a period of two years.
During 2009, he received Non-executive directors have letters of appointment which US$93,750 for this role.
recognize that, subject to the Articles of Association, their service is at the discretion of shareholders.
All directors stand for re-election at each AGM.
This directors remuneration report was approved by the board and Superannuation gratuities signed on its behalf by David J Jackson, company secretary, on Until 2002, BP maintained a long-standing practice whereby non- 26 February 2010. executive directors who retired from the board after at least six years service were eligible for consideration for a superannuation gratuity.
The board was, and continues to be, authorized to make such payments under the companys Articles of Association.
In 2002, the board revised its policy so that non-executive directors appointed to the board after 1 July 2002 would not be eligible for a superannuation gratuity, and that directors in service at that date would remain eligible but service past 1 July 2002 would not be taken into account by the board in considering the amount of the superannuation gratuity.
