BP Annual Review 2009 Summary directors remuneration report targets were exceeded, some substantially, During the year the committee conducted with particularly strong performance on cost a full review of BPs remuneration policy, reduction, exploration success, production and particularly the EDIP, which is being start-ups and re ning performance.
put before shareholders for renewal this This overall excellent performance was year.
We consulted with a number of also re ected in the market, where BP our shareholders, reviewed the actual shareholders recorded the highest total experience with applying EDIP rules over shareholder return TSR of all the oil the past five years and considered recent majors for the year.
Overall The other element of variable pay we concluded that the basic structure of is awarded in shares based on BPs the EDIP remains appropriate, but that performance over three years, compared some rebalancing of elements is warranted.
with the other oil majors.
Following the The key change we propose is to require a process approved by shareholders in the portion of the annual bonus to be deferred, Executive Directors Incentive Plan EDIP, paid in shares and matched after three the committee first reviews the three-year years subject to an assessment of safety TSR of BP compared with its peers and and environmental sustainability over the then considers a set of underlying business three-year period.
This change would place metrics, again in comparison with peers.
more focus on the long term, highlight the When there is a difference between the two importance of safety and build a larger equity An excellent comparisons, the committee decides which stake for executives that we believe aligns level of vesting best represents BPs relative their interests well with shareholders.
This year the TSR balance this additional bonus element, we year result was tightly clustered and sensitive to propose to reduce the maximum award of calculation methodology.
For example, based performance shares in the renewed EDIP on a three-month averaging of endpoints, so as to maintain the current quantum of Dr D S Julius Chairman BP came fourth whereas on a one-month total remuneration.
These changes are Remuneration Committee averaging it came second.
On underlying summarized in the table below.
26 February 2010 metrics, BP ranked first on four of the six It has been an excellent year for BP reviewed production growth, earnings per and its shareholders.
In determining annual Highlights share growth, change in return on average and long-term awards, the committee has Targets exceeded, some substantially.
capital employed and free cash ow and recognized the very real achievements Rewards re ect achievements.
second or third on the others Re ning of the executive team.
For the future, we Remuneration policy review completed.
and Marketing earnings per barrel and net believe our revised EDIP provides a sound income growth.
Following the process set framework with which to competitively out in the EDIP, the committee judged BP reward our top executives for continued In a volatile year for the world economy, to be tied for third place and thus shared success in this long-term business.
the BP executive team produced excellent the vesting outcome for third and fourth results.
While salaries were frozen for all place to result in a vesting of 17.5% of the directors in 2009, the variable performancemaximum award.
related pay re ected the impressive achievements of the year and the turnaround of performance over the past three years.
Summary of future remuneration components The details of executive director remuneration are set out in the table on the opposite page.
Salary Normally reviewed mid-year no increases in 2009.
Current salaries: The remuneration committee sets the Dr Hayward 1,045,000, Mr Conn 690,000, Mr Dudley $1,000,000, measures and targets for the annual bonus Dr Grote $1,380,000, Mr Inglis 690,000. element of variable pay at the beginning of Bonus On-target bonus of 150% of salary and maximum of 225% the year, based on the strategy and annual of salary based on performance relative to targets set at start of year relating to financial and operational metrics.
plan accepted by the board.
The strategy is Deferred bonus One-third of actual bonus awarded as shares with three-year deferral, built around safety, people and performance.
and match with ability to voluntarily defer an additional one-third.
The measures included key safety measures All deferred shares matched one-for-one, both subject to an assessment 15% of bonus, staff numbers and survey of safety and environmental performance over the three-year period.
results to re ect the people priorities 15% Performance shares Following EDIP renewal, award of shares of up to 5.5 times salary and a set of financial and operational targets for group chief executive, 4.75 times for the chief executive of to measure performance 70%.
Nearly all Exploration and Production, and 4 times for other executive directors.
Vesting after three years based on performance relative to other oil majors.
Three-year retention period after vesting before release of shares.
Pension Final salary scheme appropriate to home country of executive.
Annual bonuses are shown in the year they were earned.
a This information has been subject to audit.
b Figures show the total salary received during the calendar year.
The last salary increase was in July 2008. c Includes shares representing reinvested dividends received on the shares that vested at the end of the performance period.
d Based on market price on vesting date 5.08 per share $45.13 per ADS.
e Based on market price on vesting date 5.76 per share $55.17 per ADS.
f Maximum potential shares that could vest at the end of the three-year period depending on performance.
g Dr Grote and Mr Dudley hold shares in the form of ADSs.
The above number re ects calculated equivalent in ordinary shares.
h Re ects remuneration received by Mr Dudley since appointment as executive director on 6 April 2009. i This amount includes costs of London accommodation and any tax liability thereon.
j In addition to this amount, under a tax equalization arrangement, BP discharged a US tax liability arising from the participation by Mr Inglis in the UK pension scheme amounting to $90,314.
a Remuneration of non-executive directors in 2009 Historical TSR performance thousand 2008 2009 250 FTSE 100 P D Sutherland 600 600 BP A Burgmans 90 93 200 Sir William Castell 108 115 C B Carroll 93 90 b G David 100 118 150 E B Davis, Jr 105 105 D J Flint 90 85 100 Dr D S Julius 110 105 Sir Ian Prosser 170 165 c C-H Svanberg n a 30 50 Directors leaving the board in 2009 Sir Tom McKillop 95 33 04 05 06 07 08 09 a This information has been subject to audit.
b Also received 4,166 for serving as a member of BPs technology advisory committee.
This graph shows the growth in value of a hypothetical 100 holding in BP p. l. c. ordinary shares over five years, relative to the FTSE 100 Index While fees were held at 2008 levels, in 2009 actual fees paid to of which the company is a constituent.
The values of the hypothetical non-executive directors were affected by changes in committee 100 holdings at the end of the five-year period were 141.75 and membership and the number of transatlantic meetings for which 134.58 respectively.
an attendance allowance was paid.
In 2009 the chairman reviewed non-executive director remuneration taking into account the review completed in 2008.
The chairman made a recommendation to the board which was agreed to maintain the 2008 structure until a further review in 2010.
