BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors remuneration report 2007-2009 share element Part 2 Executive directors remuneration This momentum of improvement is also apparent over the three-year performance period covered by the 2007-2009 share element under the 2009 remuneration EDIP.
Performance for the share element is assessed relative to the other oil majors ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron.
The committee Salary follows the assessment process approved by shareholders in Executive directors have had no salary increases since July 2008, with determining the vesting of shares that had been awarded at the start of the exception of Mr Dudley who was appointed to the board in April 2007.
It first compares the total shareholder return TSR of each of the 2009.
Dr Haywards salary remains 1,045,000, Mr Conns 690,000, majors and then reviews underlying performance metrics across the Mr Dudleys $1,000,000, Dr Grotes $1,380,000, and Mr Ingliss same group.
Given the small peer group, similarity of their businesses, 690,000. and general imperfections in measurement, there will be occasions when results of some or all of the companies are tightly clustered.
In such Annual bonus circumstances, a small difference in TSR performance or calculation The annual bonus awards for 2009 reflect the excellent performance methodology could produce a large, and inappropriate, difference in achieved across the business and are set out in the table on page 83. vesting level.
To counter this the committee has the obligation to review Performance measures and targets were set at the beginning of both relative TSR and underlying performance to ensure a balanced the year based on the groups annual plan.
Group results formed the judgement is made.
Such was the case with regard to the 2007-2009 basis for Dr Haywards, Mr Dudleys and Dr Grotes annual bonus and metrics.
were weighted 70% on financial and operating results including profit, The TSR result was tightly clustered for 2007-2009 with BP cash flow, cash costs, production, reserves replacement, Refining and coming fourth based on our established methodology but very close to Marketing profitability, refining availability, and installed wind capacity, third place.
As required by the plan, the committee reviewed a number of 15% on safety both metrics and progress on plans, and 15% on people financial and operating metrics to assess relative underlying including organizational changes and employee attitudes.
These included the average change over the three years of Mr Ingliss annual bonuses were based 50% on the group results as EPS, ROACE, free cash flow, net income, production growth and Refining above, and 50% on their respective business unit results also a mix of and Marketing profitability.
The review of underlying performance showed financial, operating, safety and people measures.
The target level of BP in a strong relative position.
BP came first on change in EPS growth, bonus for executive directors was 120% of salary with committee ROACE, free cash flow and production, on adjusted net income BP judgement to award up to 150% for exceeding targets and above that ranked second and on Refining and Marketing profitability it came third.
level to recognize exceptional performance.
Based on the full review and combining both the TSR and underlying Targets were exceeded on virtually all key measures during 2009, analysis, the committee judged BP to be tied for third place and thus a number by a substantial margin and resulting in bonuses averaging shared the vesting outcome for third and fourth place 35% and 0% 170% of salary.
respectively as set out in the plan rules.
The resulting 17.5% vesting for All key safety and operating metrics including days away from eligible participants is also shown in the table on page 83. work case frequency DAFWCF, recordable injury frequency RIF, oil spills, loss of primary containment, and process safety high potential Remuneration policy review incidents showed good results and significant improvements in all cases from 2008.
Implementation of the operating management system OMS During 2009 the committee carried out a comprehensive review of its progressed ahead of plan and is now successfully installed at remuneration policy for executive directors.
The review covered all 70 operating entities including all major downstream sites.
People components of remuneration, both fixed and variable, short term and metrics were also exceeded.
Major organizational restructuring was long term.
It focused especially on the EDIP which provides the completed including reducing the number of group leaders and senior framework for long-term, variable pay.
The current EDIP was approved by level leaders in excess of plan.
The employee survey results showed shareholders in 2005 and will expire in April 2010, when a renewal will be significant improvement in key aspects such as safety and compliance put to shareholder vote.
As part of its review the committee met with and performance culture, as well as overall employee satisfaction.
key shareholders to assess the current pay structure and test areas for Exceptional results were achieved on financial and operating change.
Replacement cost profit was some $5 billion above plan after The basic principles that guide remuneration policy for executive adjusting for the oil price and other environmental factors.
Cash costs directors in BP formed the starting point for the review.
These include: were reduced substantially.
Production increased by more than 4% while A substantial portion of executive remuneration should be linked to unit production costs reduced by 12%.
The reserves replacement ratio success in implementing the companys business strategy to was 129%, continuing an industry-leading peformance.
Refining and maximize long-term shareholder value.
Marketing cash costs were reduced by 15%, and refining availability Executives should develop and be required to hold a significant increased to 94%.
Refining and Marketing profitability exceeded plan shareholding as this represents the best way to align their interests after adjusting for a dramatically weaker industry environment.
Exploration and Production achieved major project start-ups in the Gulf of The structure of pay should reflect the long-term nature of BPs Mexico, Indonesia and Trinidad & Tobago.
Exploration successes included business and the significance of safety and environmental risks.
the Tiber discovery in the Gulf of Mexico and new access for future Performance conditions for variable pay should be set independently growth was secured in Iraq, Indonesia and Jordan as well as new by the committee at the outset of each year and assessed by the acreage in the Gulf of Mexico.
committee both quantitatively and qualitatively at the end of each The excellent results achieved during 2009 reflect the strong performance period.
leadership of the executive team and their continuing focus on safety, Performance assessment should take into account material changes people and performance.
in the market environment predominantly oil prices and BPs competitive position primarily vis--vis other oil majors.
84 Directors remuneration report BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors remuneration report Salaries should be reviewed annually, in the context of the total Mr Conn, Dr Grote and Mr Inglis will have 70% of their bonus based quantum of pay, and taking into account both external market and on the above group results and 30% on the results of their respective internal company conditions.
business segments as measured by key performance metrics and The remuneration committee will actively seek to understand milestones set out in the annual plan.
For Exploration and Production, shareholder preferences and be as transparent as possible in these include production costs and reserves replacement as well as explaining its remuneration policy and practices.
For Finance, they focus on specific The committees review concluded that the basic structure of fixed and business and cost targets.
For Refining and Marketing, they include variable pay remains appropriate.
The EDIP gives the committee a range refining availability, earnings and cash costs, as well as safety and of tools, within an overall framework approved by shareholders, with work simplification.
which to construct remuneration packages that are tailored to the The committee will also review carefully the underlying companys business objectives each year and are calibrated to achieve performance of the group in light of company business plans and will the desired linkage between performance and pay.
look at competitors results, analysts reports and the views of the While the basic structure of the EDIP remains appropriate, the chairmen of other BP board committees when assessing results.
committee concluded that three of its features should be revised.
First, The committee can decide to reduce bonuses where this is with respect to the annual bonus, a new element should be added to warranted and, in exceptional circumstances, bonuses can be reduced require one-third of the bonus to be deferred for three years and paid in to zero.
At the end of this three-year period, subject to an assessment of safety and environmental sustainability, the deferred Deferred bonus bonus would be matched with additional shares on a one-for-one basis.
One-third of the annual bonus will be deferred into shares for three years Executives would also have the opportunity to defer an additional oneand matched by the company on a one-for-one basis.
Both deferred and third of their annual bonus on this basis.
matched shares will vest contingent on an assessment of safety and Second, with respect to the long-term performance share environmental sustainability over the three-year deferral period.
If the element, the maximum number of shares should be reduced to offset committee assesses that there has been a material deterioration in the more generous annual bonus and deferred element in the revised safety and environmental metrics, or there have been major incidents EDIP and thereby keep the total quantum of remuneration roughly revealing underlying weaknesses in safety and environmental constant.
management, then it may conclude that shares should vest in part, or not Third, the current EDIP includes a provision for discretionary cash at all.
In reaching its conclusion, the committee will obtain advice from payments which has never been used.
This provision will be omitted from the safety, ethics and environment assurance committee SEEAC.
Executive directors may voluntarily defer a further one-third of their annual bonus into shares, which will be capable of vesting, and Detail of elements of remuneration will qualify for matching, on the same basis as set out above.
The majority of total remuneration is long term and varies with Where shares vest, the executive director will receive additional performance, with the largest elements share based, further aligning shares representing the value of the reinvested dividends.
This structure of deferred bonuses, paid in shares, places increased focus on long-term alignment and reinforces the critical Salary importance of maintaining high safety and environmental standards.
The committee normally reviews salaries annually, taking into account other large Europe-based global companies as well as relevant US Performance shares companies.
These groups are each defined and analysed by the The share element of the EDIP has been a feature of the plan, with some committees independent remuneration advisers.
modifications, since its inception in 2000.
To reflect the introduction of the deferred matching element, the maximum number of shares that can Annual bonus be awarded will be reduced from 7.5 times salary to 5.5 times salary for The committee sets bonus targets and levels of eligibility each year for all the group chief executive and from 5.5 times salary to 4.75 times salary executive directors.
For the 2010 bonus, the committee has adjusted for the chief executive of Exploration and Production, and to four times bonus levels and structure of payment, as part of the wider rebalancing salary for the other executive directors.
Performance shares will only vest to the extent that a The on-target bonus level for 2010 is 150% of salary with the performance condition is met, as described below.
In addition, the maximum of 225% of salary.
This was changed from the target for 2009 committee will have an overriding discretion, in exceptional referred to earlier.
circumstances relating to either the company or a particular Group results will be determined based on six metrics comprising participant to reduce the number of shares that vest or to provide that safety, people and four performance-related measures including: no shares vest.
The compulsory retention period will also be decided by the Cash costs.
committee and will not normally be less than three years.
Together with Production and reserves replacement.
the performance period, this gives executive directors a six-year incentive Refining and Marketing income per barrel.
structure, which is designed to ensure their interests are aligned with Dr Haywards and Mr Dudleys bonus will be based on group results.
Where shares vest, the executive director will receive additional shares representing the value of the reinvested dividends.
The committees policy, reflected in the EDIP, continues to be that each executive director builds a significant personal shareholding, with a target of shares equivalent in value to five times salary, within a reasonable time from appointment as an executive director.
85 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors remuneration report Performance conditions Pensions Performance conditions for the 2010-12 share element will continue the Executive directors are eligible to participate in the appropriate pension structure used in the 2009-2011 plan.
schemes applying in their home countries.
Details are set out in the table Vesting of shares will be based, as to one-third, on BPs TSR on page 87. compared with other oil majors over a three-year period and as to two-thirds, on a balanced scorecard of underlying performance.
BPs UK directors TSR performance will be compared with the other oil majors UK directors are members of the regular BP Pension Scheme.
The core ExxonMobil, Shell, Total, ConocoPhillips and Chevron.
This comparison benefits under this scheme are non-contributory.
They include a pension group can be altered if circumstances change, for example, if there is accrual of 1 60th of basic salary for each year of service, up to a significant consolidation or change in the industry.
While this comparison maximum of two-thirds of final basic salary and a dependants benefit of group is narrow, it is used by both management and shareholders in two-thirds of the members pension.
The scheme pension is not assessing BPs comparative TSR performance.
integrated with state pension benefits.
The inclusion of relative TSR is an appropriate way of measuring The rules of the BP Pension Scheme were amended in 2006 such performance for the purposes of a long-term incentive for executive that the normal retirement age is 65.
Prior to 1 December 2006, scheme directors as it reflects the creation of shareholder value while minimizing members could retire on or after age 60 without reduction.
Special early the impact of sector specific events such as the oil price.
TSR is retirement terms apply to pre-1 December 2006 service for members calculated as share price performance over the relevant period, assuming with long service as at 1 December 2006. dividends are reinvested.
All share prices are averaged over the threePension benefits in excess of the individual lifetime allowance set month period before the beginning and end of the performance period.
by legislation are paid via an unapproved, unfunded pension arrangement They are measured in US dollars.
provided directly by the company.
The balanced scorecard will be assessed by the committee on Although Mr Inglis is, like other UK directors, a member of the BP three measures reflecting key priorities in BPs strategy, production Pension Scheme, he is currently based in Houston, US.
His participation growth, Refining and Marketing profitability and group underlying net in the BP Pension Scheme gives rise to a US tax liability.
Both production growth and Refining and Marketing profitability committee approved the discharge of this US tax liability under a tax are key strategic objectives for the group and key drivers of value for equalization arrangement amounting to $90,314.
Group underlying net income acts as a holistic measure of success reflecting revenues, costs and complexity as well as safe and US directors reliable operations.
The three underlying measures will be averaged to Dr Grote and Mr Dudley participate in the US BP Retirement form the balanced scorecard component.
Accumulation Plan US plan which features a cash balance formula.
All the above measures will be compared with the other oil Pension benefits are provided through a combination of tax-qualified and majors to determine the overall vesting result.
The methodology used non-qualified benefit restoration plans, consistent with US tax regulations will rank each of the five other majors on each of the measures.
performance will then be compared on an interpolated basis relative to The Supplemental Executive Retirement Benefit supplemental the performance of the other five.
Performance shares will vest at 100%, plan is a non-qualified top-up arrangement that became effective on 70% and 35% for performance equivalent to first, second and third rank 1 January 2002 for US employees above a specified salary level.
The respectively and none for fourth or fifth place.
For performance between benefit formula is 1.3% of final average earnings, which comprise base second and third or first and second, the result will be interpolated based salary and bonus in accordance with standard US practice and as on BPs performance relative to the company ranked directly above and specified under the qualified arrangement, multiplied by years of service.
There is an offset for benefits payable under all other BP qualified and The committee considers that this combination of measures non-qualified pension arrangements.
This benefit is unfunded and provides a good balance of external as well as internal metrics reflecting therefore paid from corporate assets.
both shareholder value and operating priorities.
As in previous years, the Dr Grote and Mr Dudley are eligible to participate under committee may exercise its discretion, in a reasonable and informed the supplemental plan.
Their pension accrual for 2009, shown in the manner, to adjust vesting levels upwards or downwards if it concludes table below, includes the total amount that could become payable the quantitative approach does not reflect the true underlying health and under all plans.
performance of BPs business relative to its peers.
It will explain any adjustments in the next directors remuneration report following the Other benefits vesting, in line with its commitment to transparency.
Executive directors are eligible to participate in regular employee In exceptional recruitment circumstances, the committee may benefit plans and in all-employee share saving schemes applying in award performance shares that are subject to a requirement of continued their home countries.
Benefits in kind are not pensionable.
BP provides service over a specified period, rather than a corporate performance accommodation in London for both Mr Inglis and Mr Dudley.
86 Directors remuneration report BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors remuneration report a Pensions thousand Additional pension Accrued pension earned during the Transfer value of Transfer value of Amount of B-A less c c Service at entitlement year ended accrued benefit accrued benefit contributions made by b 31 Dec 2009 at 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2009 at 31 Dec 2008 A at 31 Dec 2009 B the director in 2009 Dr A B Hayward UK 28 years 584 23 8,045 10,840 2,743 I C Conn UK 24 years 276 12 3,161 4,508 1,347 d R W Dudley US 30 years $406 $106 $2,994 $4,353 $1,358 Dr B E Grote US 30 years $1,011 $143 $11,220 $12,047 $827 A G Inglis UK 29 years 337 12 4,399 6,000 1,601 a This information has been subject to audit.
b Additional pension earned during the year includes an inflation increase of 0.9% for UK directors and 0% for US directors.
c Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the actuarial profession.
d Figures represent period after joining the board on 6 April 2009.
b BPs performance is measured against the oil sector.
For awards under the 2006-2008 through 2008-2010 plans, the performance condition is TSR measured against ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron.
For awards under the 2009-2011 plan, performance conditions are measured 50% on TSR against ExxonMobil, Shell, Total, ConocoPhillips and Chevron and 50% on a balanced scorecard of underlying performance.
Each performance period ends on 31 December of the third year.
c Represents awards of shares made at the end of the relevant performance period based on performance achieved under rules of the plan and includes reinvested dividends on the shares awarded.
d Restricted award under share element of EDIP.
As reported in the 2007 directors remuneration report in February 2008, the committee awarded both Mr Inglis and Mr Conn restricted shares, as set out above.
These one-off awards will vest on the third and fifth anniversary of the award, dependent on the remuneration committee being satisfied as to their personal performance at the date of vesting.
Any unvested tranche will lapse in the event of cessation of employment with the company.
e Dr Grote and Mr Dudley receive awards in the form of ADSs.
The above numbers reflect calculated equivalents in ordinary shares.
During 2009, the highest market prices were 6.09 and $59.93 respectively and the lowest market prices were 4.05 and $34.14 respectively.
BPA BP Amoco share option plan, which applied to US executive directors prior to the adoption of the EDIP.
EDIP Executive Directors Incentive Plan adopted by shareholders in April 2005 as described on page 84.
EXEC Executive Share Option Scheme.
These options were granted to the relevant individuals prior to their appointments as directors and are not subject to performance conditions.
SAYE Save As You Earn employee share scheme.
BP SOP BP Share Option Plan.
These options were granted to Mr Dudley prior to his appointment as a director and are not subject to performance conditions.
a This information has been subject to audit.
b Numbers shown are ADSs under option.
One ADS is equivalent to six ordinary shares.
c On appointment to the board.
e Options exercised on 12 February 2010 at a market price of $54.36 per ADS.
89 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors remuneration report During the year, the fees received by executive directors for external Service contracts appointments were as follows: Director Contract Salary as at date 31 Dec 2009 Executive director Additional position Dr A B Hayward 29 Jan 2003 1,045,000 Appointee held at appointee Total I C Conn 22 Jul 2004 690,000 company company fees Mr R Dudley 6 Apr 2009 $1,000,000 a Dr A B Hayward Tata Steel Senior 29,000 Dr B E Grote 7 Aug 2000 $1,380,000 Independent A G Inglis 1 Feb 2007 690,000 Director I C Conn Rolls-Royce Senior 65,000 Service contracts have a notice period of one year and may be Independent terminated by the company at any time with immediate effect on Director payment in lieu of notice equivalent to one years salary or the amount of Dr B E Grote Unilever Audit committee Unilever PLC salary that would have been paid if the contract had been terminated on member 36,000 the expiry of the remainder of the notice period.
The service contracts are Unilever NV expressed to expire at a normal retirement age of 60 subject to age Z52,250 discrimination.
A G Inglis BAE Chair of 90,000 Dr Grotes contract is with BP Exploration Alaska Inc.
He is Systems Corporate seconded to BP p. l. c. under a secondment agreement of 7 August 2000, Responsibility which expires at the date of the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Committee Mr Dudleys contract is with BP Corporation North America Inc.
He is seconded to BP p. l. c. under a secondment agreement of 15 April 2009 a Member of Tata Steel Europe board until 1 April 2009 and Tata Steel Ltd board until which expires on 15 April 2012.
Both secondments can be terminated by 18 September 2009. one months notice by either party and terminate automatically on the termination of their service contracts.
Remuneration committee There are no other provisions for compensation payable on early All the members of the committee are independent non-executive termination of the above contracts.
In the event of the early termination directors.
Throughout the year, Dr Julius chairman, and Sir Ian Prosser of any of the contracts by the company, other than for cause or under a were members.
Mr Davis and Sir Tom McKillop served on the committee specific termination payment provision, the relevant directors then until April 2009 and were succeeded by Mr Burgmans and Mr David in current salary and benefits would be taken into account in calculating any May 2009.
The group chief executive was consulted on matters relating liability of the company.
to the other executive directors who report to him and on matters All service contracts include a provision to allow for severance relating to the performance of the company: neither he nor the chairman payments to be phased, when appropriate.
The committee will also were present when matters affecting their own remuneration were consider mitigation to reduce compensation to a departing director, when discussed.
The remuneration committees tasks, as set out in the board governance Executive directors external appointments principles, are: The board encourages executive directors to broaden their knowledge To determine, on behalf of the board, the terms of engagement and and experience by taking up appointments outside the company.
Each remuneration of the group chief executive and the executive directors executive director is permitted to accept one non-executive appointment, and to report on these to the shareholders.
from which they may retain any fee.
External appointments are subject To determine, on behalf of the board, matters of policy over which the to agreement by the chairman and reported to the board.
Any external company has authority regarding the establishment or operation of appointment must not conflict with a directors duties and commitments the companys pension scheme of which the executive directors are to BP.
To nominate, on behalf of the board, any trustees or directors of corporate trustees of the scheme.
To review the policies being applied by the group chief executive in remunerating senior executives other than executive directors to ensure alignment and proportionality.
To recommend to the board the quantum and structure of remuneration for the chairman.
