REMUNERATION REPORT CONTENTS Introduction 78 Remuneration Committee 79 Summary terms of reference 79 Key activities of the Remuneration Committee in 2009 80 Remuneration policy 80 Salary 81 Performance-related bonus 81 Long-term incentives 82 Share Option Scheme 85 All-employee share schemes 85 Options and awards outstanding 86 Shareholding guidelines 86 As Chairman of the Executive Directors pension benefits 86 Remuneration Committee, Executive Directors service contracts 87 Executive Directors external appointments 88 I am committed to ensuring Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment 88 Non-Executive Directors remuneration policy 88 that the Committee is effective Chairmans terms of appointment and remuneration 89 and that the proper incentives Appendices 90 Tables 1 to 7 90 are in place in the context of the Status of Remuneration report 97 overall remuneration policy.
Anthony Ruys Remuneration Committee Chairman INTRODUCTION CURRENT MEMBERS Anthony Ruys Chairman British American Tobaccos remuneration policy continues to focus Karen fide Segundo on the delivery of the Groups strategy.
In particular, in developing Robert Lerwill and maintaining a sustainable business by achieving growth, Dr Ana Maria Llopis improving productivity, operating responsibly and building a Christine Morin-Postel winning organisation.
The Remuneration Committee ensures that Dr Gerry Murphy the relevant business objectives underpin all the performance-related bonus measures at both a corporate and individual level.
Sir Nicholas Scheele The Remuneration Committee adopted some time ago a simple and transparent approach for the remuneration packages of the senior executive team with the aim of providing full clarity for both shareholders and eligible participants about the required levels of performance.
There is a real focus on business sustainability and the management of key risks which continues to be incorporated into the component parts of the remuneration policy which is detailed below.
The Remuneration Committee has decided to carry out a review in 2010 in connection with the International Executive Incentive Scheme IEIS and the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP to ensure that the total remuneration opportunity for the Executive Directors and senior management team is market competitive.
This may lead to an approach to shareholders later in the year in the event that any changes are proposed.
78 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 Remuneration Committee Summary terms of reference Attendance at meetings in 2009 Meetings The Remuneration Committee is responsible for: Meetings eligible Name attended to attend determining an executive remuneration policy covering salary, performance-based variable rewards and pensions: Anthony Ruys 3 3 Karen fide Segundo 3 3 determining, within the terms of the agreed policy, the specific Robert Lerwill 3 3 remuneration packages for the Chairman, the Executive Ana Maria Llopis 3 3 Directors and the members of the Management Board both Christine Morin-Postel 1 3 on appointment and on review, having due regard to pay Gerry Murphy 2 2 and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group: Sir Nicholas Scheele 2 3 the setting and the review of targets applicable for the At the date of this report, the Committee comprises the independent Companys short and long-term performance-based variable Non-Executive Directors of the Company set out in the table above.
reward schemes and determining achievement against targets: Gerry Murphy became a member of the Remuneration Committee exercising its discretion in relation to performance-based upon his appointment as a Non-Executive Director on 13 March 2009. rewards where appropriate and as provided by the applicable There were no other changes in the membership of the Remuneration scheme rules : and Committee during 2009. monitoring and advising the Board on any major changes The Secretary to the Committee is Nicola Snook, the Company to the policy on employee benefit structures for the British Secretary.
No Executive Director or Management Board member plays any The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and updated part in determining his or her remuneration.
During the year ended in March 2009.
The full terms of reference are available from the 31 December 2009, both the Chief Executive and the Chairman Company Secretary and on www.
were consulted and invited to attend meetings of the Committee, except when their own remuneration was under consideration.
In determining remuneration for the year, the Committee consulted The Remuneration Committee is authorised by the Board to seek the Chief Executive, and the Director, Human Resources and the any information it requires from, and require the attendance at any Group Head of Reward.
Richard Burrows, prior to taking up his role as of its meetings of, any Director or member of management, and Chairman, also attended a meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
all employees are expected to cooperate with any request made by the Committee.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to The agenda for the meetings of the Remuneration Committee is obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other independent agreed by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, taking into professional advice if it considers this necessary.
In particular, the account the views of other members of the Committee, as appropriate.
Committee is responsible for the appointment of any remuneration consultants who may advise the Committee.
Deloitte LLP provided remuneration services and advice to the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
Deloitte is an international professional services firm which has also supported management in the development and delivery of remuneration proposals as well as the provision of tax, corporate finance and consulting services to British American Tobacco Group companies around the world.
Herbert Smith LLP has also been retained by the Company to provide legal advice in respect of the Companys share schemes, as well as providing other legal services to British American Tobacco as a whole.
Ernst & Young LLP provides tax advice to international assignees and in respect of the Companys share schemes.
Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 79 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Remuneration Committee reviewed its effectiveness in 2009 Remuneration policy as part of the Board evaluation process.
Changes to the scope of Fixed and variable remuneration membership for the Remuneration Committee were considered The Remuneration Committee has set a guideline that approximately but the current format was deemed appropriate for the time being.
50 per cent of the remuneration package should be performanceIn addition, the Committees review concluded that it is operating related.
The remuneration package comprises both core fixed elements effectively internally and also externally with Deloitte LLP, its base salary, pension and other benefits and performance-based remuneration consultants.
variable elements cash and share incentive annual bonus plans, and the LTIP.
Key activities of the Remuneration Committee in 2009 The composition in the case of the current Executive Directors for 2009 The Remuneration Committee met three times during 2009. is illustrated in the bar chart below: The Committee followed its regular work programme designed around its two scheduled meetings in February and October each Executive Directors percentage of fixed and variable remuneration year at which it: Salary Pension and benets Bonus cash deferred shares LTIP benchmarked, reviewed and set the salaries for the Executive Directors and the Management Board members: J B Stevens N Durante assessed the achievement of the targets for the 2008 IEIS P N Adams award and set the targets for the award made in 2009: 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Notes: assessed the measurement of the performance conditions for 1 The above illustration of the current Executive Directors percentage of fixed and the vesting of the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP 2006 award: variable remuneration for 2009 is based on a number of assumptions: 1 base salary represents annual salary: 2 pension represents the transfer value of net increase determined the LTIP award for March 2009 and its associated in pension to the UK Pension Fund as disclosed in Table 7 Nicandro Durantes transfer value is based on constant exchange rates : 3 benefits are core benefits performance conditions: such as car allowance, private medical and personal accident insurance: 4 bonus is the amount received for performance in 2009 delivered in cash and deferred assessed the achievement of the targets for the 2008 Share shares: and 5 LTIP represents the target annualised expected value of the longReward Scheme award and set the targets for the award term incentive award granted in 2009 expressed as a percentage of base salary.
made in 2009: 2 Fixed remuneration comprises: salary, pension and benefits.
Variable remuneration comprises: bonus cash and deferred shares and LTIP.
monitored the application of the Companys shareholding guidelines for the Executive Directors and the Management Pay Comparator Group Board members: and The setting of the reward opportunity for Executive Directors remains underpinned by responsible independent benchmarking.
The approach reviewed the Remuneration report for the year ended 2008 is focused on a peer group which includes selected FTSE 100 companies prior to its approval by the Board.
and, from 2009, Philip Morris International the Pay Comparator Group, In addition, the Remuneration Committee dealt with the following: which is supplemented by market data of FTSE 350 companies, with the relative scale and complexity, as well as the practice of the FTSE 30 terms of appointment for Richard Burrows as Chairman companies.
The Pay Comparator Group is made up of companies of the Company: which meet the criteria of a consumer goods focus, an international terms of appointment and termination for the Management spread of operations and a competitor for top management talent.
Board appointments and departures during the year: a general update of the Companys shareholding guidelines and clarification of the position on shares held by spouses and the use of shares as security for loans: and the use of restricted shares in connection with the vesting of the May 2007 LTIP award.
80 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 The constituent companies in the Pay Comparator Group as at The Chief Operating Officer and the Finance Director are relatively 31 December 2009 are set out below: new to their roles, both having been appointed in early 2008.
The Remuneration Committee identified that these two positions are Associated British Foods Pearson behind the market at both the level of base salary and on-target total Astra Zeneca Philip Morris International compensation.
In order to ensure that the remuneration packages of BP Reckitt Benckiser these two roles are better aligned to the market, the Remuneration BT Group Reed Elsevier Committee agreed to increase their levels of base salary by an average British Sky Broadcasting Royal Dutch Shell of about 7 per cent.
Cadbury SABMiller The Remuneration Committee, while being clear that annual salary Diageo Tesco increases are not inevitable, considers that, in all cases, these revised GlaxoSmithKline Unilever salaries are appropriate as the Company has performed well over the Imperial Tobacco Group Vodafone review period.
Marks & Spencer WPP Group In addition to basic salary, the Executive Directors receive certain Salary benefits in kind, principally: a car or car allowance: the use of a Purpose reward individual performance driver: and private medical and personal accident insurance.
reflect skills and experience Performance-related bonus Delivery monthly International Executive Incentive Scheme IEIS cash Purpose incentivise the attainment of corporate targets on an Policy annual review in February with salary changes effective annual basis from April or ad hoc review on a significant change of Delivery annual award responsibilities 50 per cent cash benchmarked for appropriate salary levels using 50 per cent shares deferred shares a company size and complexity model coupled with dividend equivalent payment 1 the Pay Comparator Group: and, for Executive Directors, Policy six common measures for performance: underlying 2 published salary data for FTSE 350 companies operating profit, market share, Global Drive Brand base salary is pensionable volume, net revenue, cash flow and costs The summary table above sets out the key policy principles for the the annual on-target bonus opportunity for the Chief salaries for the Executive Directors and the Management Board members.
Executive is 100 per cent of the base salary with a maximum Similar principles are applied to the salaries of senior managers and other award of 200 per cent of salary, and for the Chief Operating levels in the organisation, taking into account local market practices.
Officer and Finance Director the on-target bonus opportunity is 90 per cent with a maximum award of 180 per cent Base salary from Base salary from 1 April 2010 1 April 2009 for the Management Board the on-target bonus opportunity is 67.5 per cent of the base salary with Paul Adams Chief Executive 1,290,000 1,225,000 a maximum award of 135 per cent of salary Nicandro Durante Chief Operating Officer 670,000 630,000 awards are non-pensionable Ben Stevens Finance Director 640,000 590,000 The IEIS rewards short-term business performance within the context The Management Board members will receive salary increases of longer-term sustainability and any resulting award is delivered as averaging around 4 per cent which are in line with the salary increases 50 per cent cash and 50 per cent deferred shares through the Deferred awarded to centre-based UK employees with effect from 1 April 2010.
Appropriately, stretching targets are set by Actual rises have been based on each individuals contribution and the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of each year and are performance and the external market competitiveness.
The salary measured in terms of both business and financial performance.
The increase of the Chief Executive seeks to maintain the market competitive resulting award for senior managers is delivered in variable proportions position and recognises the high level of Company performance currently according to grade, being usually 55 per cent cash and 45 per cent being delivered.
Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 81 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED For the Executive Directors and Management Board members, the conditions apply in that period.
In certain circumstances, such as annual bonus opportunity for 2010 unchanged from 2009 will be as resigning before the end of the three year period, participants may shown in the summary table above.
The annual bonus opportunity for forfeit the shares.
The Remuneration Committee encourages a culture senior managers also remains unchanged with the annual on-target of ownership of these awarded shares and participants receive a cash bonus opportunity being 45 per cent of base salary with a normal sum equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position of all unvested maximum award of 90 per cent of salary rising to 135 per cent of ordinary shares held in the Deferred Scheme at the dividend record date.
base salary in cases of exceptional performance.
Long-term incentives In 2009, the targets reflected the six common measures referred to Purpose incentivise growth in earnings per share and total above with each having an equal weighting of 16.67 per cent.
Relevant shareholder return TSR over a three year period performance points are: threshold which must be exceeded to attract Delivery discretionary annual award any payment of a bonus for that measure : target: and maximum awards of shares amount the level at which the bonus for that measure is capped are variable due to performance over three year period set at the start of the year by reference to the projected performance dividend equivalent payment for each target in the context of the Groups annual budget.
No elements Policy maximum annual award of 300 per cent of salary of the bonuses are guaranteed and, as in previous years, the specific three year performance period targets are commercially sensitive and not made public.
TSR performance 50 per cent of the total award combines While the current proposed bonus targets do not include any both the share price and dividend performance during the measures which directly reflect the Groups performance on corporate three year performance period as against two comparator social responsibility CSR and governance issues, the Board continues groups 25 per cent for each measure : 1 constituents of the to recognise the importance of this area.
Governance is embedded in FTSE 100 Index: and 2 a peer group of FMCG companies the organisation as evidenced by the Companys strong governance earnings per share measure 50 per cent of the total award structure.
In addition, the delivery of the strategic vision encompasses relates to earnings per share growth on an adjusted diluted the business measure of Responsibility for which the Dow Jones basis relative to inflation Sustainability Indices an external benchmark have been used as one of the measures to assess the Companys successful performance The long-term element of remuneration continues to be delivered to date see CSR section of the Corporate governance statement.
All the Executive Directors, Management Board members and senior employees participate in the Long-Term The Committee receives reports from management to allow it to Incentive Plan adopted in 2007 the 2007 LTIP.
This plan replaced the assess the extent to which performance measures have been achieved.
LTIP adopted in 1998 1998 LTIP under which no further awards have Subject to the Committee exercising its judgment in the assessment been made and which has now expired.
The 2007 LTIP provides for of the quality of the Companys overall performance, the payout for awards of free ordinary shares, provided demanding and appropriately each measure is determined by reference to performance relative to stretching performance conditions are met over a three year period.
that measures performance points, on a pro rata basis.
The first award under the 2007 LTIP was made in May 2007.
In respect of the year ended 31 December 2009, the total Award levels payouts under the IEIS were: Chief Executive 135.4 per cent The current award levels for Executive Directors and Management 2008: 169.4 per cent : Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer Board members in place since 2008 are set out in the table below 121.9 per cent 2008: 153.5 per cent : and Management Board and will continue to apply to awards made in 2010.
Senior managers 91.4 per cent 2008: 116.7 per cent, in each case paid 50 per cent receive awards over 75 per cent or 25 per cent of salary dependent on in cash and 50 per cent in deferred shares.
The maximum annual award under the rules of the 2007 LTIP related pay values are shown in Table 4 annual cash bonus and is 300 per cent of base salary.
The Committee continues to review the deferred share bonus.
For senior managers, the total payouts reflect application of this limit in the context of its policy overall.
performance at a global, regional, area or end market level, as applicable Multiple of to their roles.
For senior managers whose bonus was linked to global base salary LTIP awards % performance, the total payout under the IEIS in respect of the year Chief Executive 300 ended 31 December 2009 was 60.9 per cent 2008: 81.2 per cent, Finance Director 250 paid 55 per cent in cash and 45 per cent in deferred shares.
Chief Operating Officer 250 Awards made under the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme the Deferred Management Board 200 Scheme are in the form of free ordinary shares in the Company which are normally held in trust for three years and no further performance 82 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 Since the award made in 2008, the performance schedule has been These comparator groups, which are regularly reviewed to ensure that structured such that the same percentage of salary will vest for they will remain both relevant and representative, are chosen to reflect threshold performance for Executive Directors and the Management the Companys financial and business trading environments.
The Board as for awards made prior to 2008.
This was achieved by applicable FMCG peer groups for the outstanding LTIP awards are reducing the entry level vesting for median ranked performance for shown below.
Award: Award: Award: each portion of the TSR performance condition from 7.5 per cent to 27 March 15 May 15 May 6 per cent of the award: and reducing the entry level vesting for EPS FMCG Peer Group 2009 2008 2007 growth from 10 per cent to 8 per cent of the award.
This maintains the Altadis positioning of the total remuneration package for target performance, 1 Altria Group and increases the opportunity for higher levels of performance.
This Anheuser-Busch approach will also apply to the LTIP award to be made in 2010.
Anheuser-Busch InBev Cadbury Since 2005, participants have been entitled to receive a dividend Cadbury Schweppes equivalent payment to the value of the dividends that they would Campbell Soup have received as shareholders on their vesting awards.
The LTIP Carlsberg dividend equivalent payment continues to be important in aligning Coca-Cola further the interests of senior management with those of shareholders.
Colgate-Palmolive The values of the LTIP dividend equivalent payments for the Executive Danone formerly Group Danone Directors are shown as individual emoluments in Tables 3 and 4.
Diageo To the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied The Gillette Company following assessment by the Remuneration Committee, awards are Heineken normally exercisable between three and 10 years after they have been HJ Heinz made.
An award of shares lapses to the extent that the performance Imperial Tobacco Group conditions are not satisfied in accordance with the measures set out InBev SA above at the end of the three year performance period.
Further, any Japan Tobacco such proportion of the award that lapses as a result does not attract Johnson & Johnson the payment of the LTIP dividend equivalent payment.
Kellogg Kimberly-Clark Performance LVMH The percentage of award vesting is based on a combination of TSR and Nestle earnings per share EPS performance conditions measured over a three PepsiCo year period.
The Remuneration Committee considers that both of these Pernod Ricard measures are appropriate benchmarks of a companys performance.
1 Philip Morris International This combination provides an important balance of measures relevant Procter & Gamble to the Groups business and market conditions as well as providing Reckitt Bencksier a common goal for the Executive Directors, the Management Board SABMiller members and shareholders.
These performance conditions are set Sara Lee out in the above table and are considered in more detail below.
Scottish & Newcastle TSR performance condition Unilever A total of 50 per cent of the total award is based on the Companys Wrigley TSR performance against two comparator groups 25 per cent for each Note: measure : 1 the constituents of the London Stock Exchanges FTSE 1 Altria Group was tracked until the demerger of Philip Morris International on 100 Index at the beginning of the performance period: and 2 a peer 17 March 2008, and a market cap weighted basket of Philip Morris International and Altria Group is tracked from March 2008.
For the 2008 award, Philip Morris group of international FMCG companies.
In the event of upper quartile International is tracked from the point of the demerger.
performance by the Company relative to the comparator groups above, 25 per cent of the total award vests in full.
From 2008, 6 per cent of the TSR continues to be measured according to the return index calculated total award vests for median performance 7.5 per cent for the 2006 and by Datastream and reviewed by the Companys independent advisers.
There is pro rata vesting between these two points.
The It is measured on the basis that all companies dividends are reinvested TSR portions of an LTIP award do not vest for below median performance.
in the shares of those companies.
The return is the percentage increase Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 83 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED in each companys index over the three year performance period.
Both the previous approach and the new method of calculation The opening and closing indices for this calculation are respectively introduced in 2009 are considered to be fair and reasonable measures the average of the index numbers for the last quarter preceding of performance.
the performance period and for the last quarter of the final year of Vesting of LTIP award made in 2007 that performance period this methodology is employed to reflect An LTIP award was made to Executive Directors and Management movements of the indices over that time as accurately as possible.
Board members on 15 May 2007 with the performance period being A local currency basis is used for the purposes of TSR measurement.
completed at 31 December 2009 the 2007 Award.
The Remuneration This approach is considered to have the benefits of simplicity and Committee has assessed the performance of the Company against directness of comparison with the performance of the comparator the two performance conditions.
On the TSR measure, the Company companies, and is in line with the historic approach taken by the ranked eighth out of the FTSE 100 group of companies, giving a Remuneration Committee for the purposes of TSR measurement.
vesting of 25 per cent for performance at the upper quartile.
A vesting of 25 per cent was also achieved for ranking second out of the peer EPS performance condition group of international FMCG companies, this also being upper quartile.
Half of the award is based on earnings per share growth relative to EPS growth was 12.1 per cent per annum in excess of inflation.
This element of the award will vest in full if EPS growth over overall assessment of both LTIP measures, therefore resulted in a the three year performance period is an average of at least 8 per cent vesting of 100 per cent of the award.
per annum in excess of inflation.
Ten per cent of this element of the award 8 per cent for awards made since 2008 will vest if the EPS As performance is based on the three year period to the end of growth over the performance period is 3 per cent in excess of inflation.
December 2009 and it is therefore known what percentage of the An award will vest on a pro rata basis between these two points.
None award will vest, the Board has considered taking steps to enable the of the EPS portion of an award vests if EPS growth is less than 3 per cent participants to elect to be taxed on these awards in the 2009 10 tax per annum in excess of inflation.
The majority of the LTIP population is not affected as their awards will vest in March 2010.
As a result, the Company has agreed to offer These EPS targets are consistent with and support the Companys the Executive Directors and certain Management Board members who strategy to deliver high single-digit EPS growth on average over the are impacted the opportunity to enter into restricted share agreements medium to long term and are considered to be very demanding.
Consequently, where a participant elects to receive the Remuneration Committee keeps the targets under review to ensure beneficial interest in the shares underlying the respective 2007 Awards that they continue to be appropriately stretching.
to the extent that the performance conditions have been met, the For awards made up to and including 2008, growth in EPS for shares will continue to be held on behalf of the participants by the these purposes is calculated on an adjusted diluted EPS basis using a trustee of the British American Tobacco Group Employee Trust.
Until formula which incorporates: 1 the adjusted diluted EPS for the year the third anniversary of the date of grant 15 May 2010 the shares prior to the start of the first performance period and then for the first, will continue to be subject to forfeiture clawback, in particular in second and third years of that performance period: and 2 retail price circumstances of leaving the Company, and any shares that would index RPI for the last month of the year immediately preceding the not have vested under the rules of the 2007 LTIP will be forfeited performance period and then the RPI for the respective first, second for no consideration.
and third years of that performance period.
Shares in which the beneficial interest only is transferred cannot be sold In 2009, the Remuneration Committee, following discussion with key until the third anniversary of the making of the award and, in particular, shareholders, moved to a more standard approach for calculating EPS none of the shares being transferred may be sold to cover the taxation growth.
Commencing with the LTIP award made on 27 March 2009, and other statutory withholding obligations arising on the transfer of the EPS performance is measured as an increase in adjusted diluted EPS beneficial interest in the shares.
Each participant will pay their respective between the base year and the final year of the performance period, liabilities to the Company from their own funds.
These arrangements expressed as an annual growth rate over the period.
are cost neutral to the Company and will not have an impact on the Companys corporation tax deduction treatment for LTIP exercises.
Under this approach, only the base year and final year adjusted diluted EPS results are considered.
However, on the basis that rolling annual In accordance with the rules of the 2007 LTIP, the Remuneration awards are made, all years of performance ultimately will be taken into Committee also resolved that the participants would be paid an account in calculating EPS growth over time.
This change was made in amount equivalent to the dividends that they would have received order to simplify the approach and to bring it into line with prevailing over the period from the date the awards were made to the date they market practice.
Where EPS grows at a relatively constant rate, the entered into their restricted share agreements.
In the event that such two methodologies will produce broadly similar results, although the dividend payments would not have been paid on the normal vesting outcome will differ for different growth profiles.
date, participants have agreed to repay such amounts to the Company.
84 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 Performance graph that date, unless the Remuneration Committee determines this not to Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and be appropriate in the circumstances.
In addition, the 2007 LTIP allows Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 requires that the as an alternative to early release that participants may, if permitted, Company must provide a graph comparing the TSR performance of exchange their LTIP awards for new awards of shares in the acquiring a hypothetical holding of shares in the Company with a broad equity company on a comparable basis.
market index over a five year period.
In this context, the Directors have Share Option Scheme again chosen to illustrate the performance of TSR against the FTSE 100 No options have been granted under the Share Option Scheme Index over a five year period, commencing on 1 January 2005.
In the since March 2004 and no options have been granted to the current opinion of the Directors, the FTSE 100 Index is the most appropriate Executive Directors since September 1999.
The Share Option Scheme index against which TSR should be measured because it is a widely expired in April 2008.
As at 31 December 2009, no Executive Directors used and understood index of broadly similar sized UK companies held outstanding options under the Share Option Scheme.
The performance graph is shown below.
During the life of the Share Option Scheme, options granted were Historical total shareholder return performance not issued at a discount to the market price at the time of grant, with the value of options for that grant being limited to 50 per cent of a Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five years participants base salary.
All outstanding options have matured and FTSE 100 comparison based on 30 trading day average values.
are exercisable up to March 2014.
British American Tobacco 400 FTSE 100 All-employee share schemes 300 The Executive Directors, Management Board members and senior 200 managers are also eligible to participate in the following all-employee 100 share schemes which are designed to incentivise employees of the 0 Group by giving them opportunities to build a shareholding in Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 the Company: the British American Tobacco Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme and the Employee Share Ownership Plan.
Total shareholder return annual % Sharesave Scheme FTSE 100 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2009 The FTSE 100 comparison is based on three months average values.
The Sharesave Scheme is approved by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC.
Eligible employees, including the Executive Directors and Upper quartile 30 British American Tobacco 15.5% Lower quartile Management Board members, have been granted employee savings- 00 related share options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company.
In November 2009, the Company made a further grant of options -30 Median 1.3 % under the Sharesave Scheme which allows for options granted to be -60 exercisable in conjunction with either a three year or five year savings contract up to a monthly limit of 250.
Options are normally granted FMCG group 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2009 at a discount of 20 per cent to the market price at the time of the The FMCG group comparison is based on three months average values.
invitation, as permitted under the rules of the Sharesave Scheme.
Upper quartile At 31 December 2009, all the Executive Directors held options under 20 British American Tobacco 15.5% Lower quartile the Sharesave Scheme.
Median 3.2% 00 Employee Share Ownership Plan The Employee Share Ownership Plan is an HMRC approved share -20 incentive plan, which incorporates a Partnership and Free Shares element.
The Partnership Share Scheme is open to all eligible employees, including LTIPs change of control Executive Directors and Management Board members.
Employees can The rules of the 1998 LTIP and the 2007 LTIP both provide that in the allocate part of their pre-tax salary to purchase shares in the Company.
event of a change of control of the Company as a result of a takeover, The maximum amount that can be allocated in this way is 1,500 in reconstruction or winding up of the Company not being an internal any year.
Shares purchased are held in a UK-based trust, normally reorganisation, LTIP awards will become exercisable for a limited capable of transfer to participants tax-free after a five year holding period based on the period of time which has elapsed since the date period.
At 31 December 2009, of the Executive Directors, Paul Adams of the award and the achievement of the performance conditions at and Nicandro Durante, participated in the Partnership Share Scheme.
Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 85 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Company also operates the Free Shares element of the plan, While shares are held by BATGET, the trustee does not exercise known as the Share Reward Scheme.
Under this Scheme, eligible any voting rights.
However, as soon as shares held in BATGET are employees including Executive Directors receive an appropriation transferred out to share scheme participants, the participants may of shares in April of each year in which the Scheme operates in respect exercise the voting rights attaching to those shares.
of performance in the previous financial year.
An award of 2,030 will Details of the Companys material share-based payment arrangements, be made to Executive Directors and Management Board members reflecting both equity share-based and cash-settled share-based on 1 April 2010 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009. arrangements, are set out in note 27 to the accounts.
The performance conditions are aligned to those set for the IEIS in respect of the same performance period.
The plan shares are held in Shareholding guidelines a UK-based trust for a minimum period of three years and during that Executive Directors and Management Board members are encouraged time the trust will exercise its voting rights as directed by the plans to hold shares in the Company.
The maximum individual award under the Share Reward guidelines require a holding equal to the value of a percentage of salary Scheme is 3,000. as set out below and excludes shares earned but not yet vested under Company share plans.
Options and awards outstanding Multiple of base salary To satisfy the future exercise of awards or options under the Groups Shareholding guidelines % employee share schemes, ordinary shares are acquired in the market Chief Executive 200 by the Groups employee share ownership trusts or the Company Chief Operating Officer 150 issues new shares.
Finance Director 150 During the year, new ordinary shares were issued by the Company Management Board 100 in relation to the Sharesave Scheme and to certain participants in the Share Option Scheme resident outside the UK.
The Executive Directors, Paul Adams Chief Executive, Nicandro Durante Chief Operating Officer and Ben Stevens Finance Director, Under the Sharesave Scheme, a total of 1,232,474 options over ordinary all meet the shareholding guidelines.
There are transitional provisions shares in the Company were outstanding at 31 December 2009.
The for those Executive Directors and Management Board members who options outstanding under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable until do not meet the requirements of the shareholding guidelines upon June 2015 at option prices ranging from 663p to 1555p.
In such cases, individuals may, generally, only sell a The British American Tobacco Group Employee Trust BATGET maximum of up to 50 per cent of any shares vesting after tax under BATGET is used to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of Company share plans until the threshold under the shareholding ordinary shares made under the Deferred Scheme, and the 1998 guidelines has been met.
LTIP and the 2007 LTIP as well as the exercise of options under the The interests of the Directors of the Company in the ordinary shares Share Option Scheme.
The number of shares held in BATGET to of the Company are shown in Table 5. satisfy outstanding awards is consistently monitored by a committee of senior management that reports to a committee of the Board.
Executive Directors pension benefits BATGET is funded by interest-free loan facilities from the Company Purpose provision of competitive post-retirement benefits totalling 400 million, enabling the trust to facilitate the purchase Delivery British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund: defined benefit of ordinary shares to satisfy the future vesting or exercise of options plan up to April 2005 and awards.
The loan to BATGET amounted to 273 million at monthly pension payment 31 December 2009 2008: 193 million.
The loan is either repaid Policy pension accrues at 1 40th of annual basic salary from the proceeds of the exercise of options or, in the case of ordinary normal pensionable age of 60 shares acquired by BATGET to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards, maximum pension payable will not exceed 2 3 of base the Company will subsequently waive the loan provided over the life salary averaged over the preceding 12 months of the awards.
If the options lapse, ordinary shares may be sold by UK Pension Fund retains a scheme-specific cap following BATGET to cover the loan repayment.
the introduction of new UK pension regime in 2006 BATGET currently waives dividends on the ordinary shares held by it.
As excess benefits continue to be accrued within an unfunded at 31 December 2009, BATGET held 14,679,045 ordinary shares with unapproved retirement benefits scheme a market value of 296.0 million 1 January 2009: 14,137,074 ordinary shares: 254.5 million.
BATGET waived payment of the final dividend Executive Directors with the exception of Nicandro Durante are, like for 2008 of 8.5 million in May 2009 and the interim dividend for other UK employees, eligible for membership of the British American 2009 of 4.3 million in September 2009.
Tobacco UK Pension Fund Pension Fund.
86 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 The Pension Fund, for members who joined before 1 April 2005, is a reviewed by the Company annually with reference to the salary of that non-contributory defined benefit scheme.
The early retirement rules of a General Manager of Souza Cruz SA which will increase annually in the Pension Fund permit a member to draw the accrued retirement in line with local practice.
In addition, Nicandro Durante accrues pension within five years of normal retirement age without actuarial a pension of 0.65 per cent for each year of service based on his reduction, subject to the employing companys agreement.
Alternatively, 12 month average UK basic salary excluding bonus with effect from an Executive Director may choose to leave and take a pension at any time 1 March 2006, that being the date of his appointment as a member of on or after his or her 50th birthday without the employing companys the Management Board.
This benefit is provided through the UURBS.
agreement, subject to a reduction as determined by the Pension Fund Executive Directors service contracts trustee in conjunction with the Pension Fund actuary.
Accrual rates Each Executive Director has a one year rolling contract, executed at differ according to individual circumstances but do not exceed onethe time of his original appointment.
The contract may be re-executed fortieth of pensionable salary for each year of pensionable service.
during the term of employment to take account of variations in terms Pensionable pay covers basic salary only and therefore bonus awards and conditions as well as changes in best practice.
Each contract and the value of benefits in kind are not pensionable.
incorporates a provision for a termination or compensation payment in lieu of notice.
The Pension Fund includes provision for spouses benefits on death in service or after retirement.
In the event of death in service, a spouses The Remuneration Committee, however, maintains the discretion pension equal to half of the members prospective pension at normal to vary the policy of one year rolling contracts in the event that an retirement age would be payable.
A spouses pension payable in the Executive Director is recruited externally or from overseas, when it event of death after retirement is equal to half of the members full may then be appropriate to offer a contract with an initial period of pension, irrespective of any decision to exchange part of the benefit longer than one year, reducing to a one year rolling contract after for a lump sum.
the expiry of the initial period.
Paul Adams and Ben Stevens each joined the Pension Fund after 1989.
An Executive Directors compensation payment, in lieu of notice, As a result, prior to 6 April 2006, these individuals were subject to would comprise: 1 12 months salary at his then current base pay: the HM Revenue & Customs cap on pensionable earnings notionally and 2 a cash payment in respect of other benefits under the contract 123,600 for the tax year 2009 10.
In addition, each has an unfunded such as medical insurance, or the Company may at its option continue pension promise from the Company in respect of earnings above the those benefits for a 12 month period.
The Committee maintains cap on an equivalent basis to the benefits provided by the Pension Fund.
discretion as to how to deal with any grants or awards made prior to This is provided through membership of an unfunded unapproved termination under the LTIPs, the IEIS and the Share Option Scheme retirement benefit scheme UURBS.
Pension entitlements are dealt with in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable pension scheme and These unfunded commitments are included in note 12 to the accounts.
do not form part of the contractual compensation payment.
However, following the changes in pensions legislation in 2006, it The compensation payment is payable where the requisite 12 months was agreed that benefits up to 75,000 per annum targeting the notice is not given to the Executive Director or when he terminates by Lifetime Allowance would be provided through the Pension Fund giving 12 months notice and the Company does not wish him to serve subject to the consent of the member with the remainder of benefits his notice.
If a period of notice is served, the compensation payment is being provided through the UURBS.
As a result, the Company paid an reduced pro rata.
In the unlikely event that the contract is terminated additional amount to the Pension Fund in 2006 to fund the additional for cause such as gross misconduct, the Company may terminate the benefits up to a maximum of 75,000 per annum.
The overall pension contract with immediate effect and no compensation would be payable.
entitlement for each of the Executive Directors remained unchanged.
Members of the Pension Fund are entitled to receive increases in their Nicandro Durante has a service contract with the Company in the pensions in line with price inflation as measured by the Retail Price form outlined above.
In addition, as a result of the application of local Index up to 6 per cent per annum.
labour laws in Brazil, Nicandro Durante retains certain termination or compensation rights in respect of his former employment with Souza Nicandro Durante is a member of the Fundacao Albino Souza Cruz Cruz SA.
In the event of any compensation being payable to Nicandro in Brazil.
This is a non-contributory defined benefit scheme and Durante pursuant to his service contract with the Company, these includes a spouses death in service benefit equal to 37.5 per cent of Souza Cruz rights will be taken into account first in arriving at a final the members prospective pension at normal retirement age.
Accrual compensation amount in order that he does not benefit twice from rates do not exceed 1.85 per cent of basic salary excluding bonus these dual arrangements.
averaged over the 12 months to normal retirement age, for each year of pensionable service.
Nicandro Durantes pensionable salary will be Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 87 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Executive Directors external appointments shareholders in accordance with the terms of the provisions of the Executive Directors and members of the Management Board are Companys Articles of Association relating to the rotation of Directors.
able to accept one substantive external Board appointment provided During 2009, the Board reviewed the terms of appointment for Nonthat permission is respectively sought from the Board or Chairman.
In order to bring full alignment with the Companys The fees from such appointments are retained for a Directors Articles of Association, and to ensure that all Non-Executive Directors own account, thereby recognising the increasing level of personal including those whose current terms are grandfathered under the commitment and expertise required for non-executive roles.
None Companies Act 2006 are appointed on the same terms, it was agreed of the Executive Directors or Management Board members currently by the Board that a new policy will be implemented during 2010.
All holds such an appointment.
Non-Executive Directors will be placed on terms of appointment of one Nicandro Durante, an Executive Director of the Company, is a year only.
These would be considered for renewal around the time of the non-executive director of Reynolds American Inc RAI an associated Companys Annual General Meeting each year, with the first appointments undertaking of the Company having been designated by Brown & being presented to the Board for its approval at the Board meeting Williamson Holdings, Inc. a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of the scheduled for 27 April 2010, to take effect immediately after the 2010 Company, as its nominee to sit on the board of RAI.
In accordance Annual General Meeting.
This will become an annual exercise.
with present arrangements, the Group received a fee of US$215,020 The date of appointment, the most recent reappointment and length from RAI in respect of Nicandro Durantes service in that role during of service for each Non-Executive Director is shown in the table below.
Non-Executive Directors remuneration policy Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment The current fees structure for the Non-Executive Directors is shown below: The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company but instead have letters of appointment.
For Non-Executive Directors appointed before 1 October 2007, the terms of appointment Basic fee 90,000 of each such Director provide that he or she is appointed for a specified Supplements term, being an initial period to the next Annual General Meeting after Senior Independent Director 25,000 appointment and, subject to reappointment at that meeting, for a Audit Committee Chairman 25,000 further period ending at the Annual General Meeting held three years CSR Committee Chairman 20,000 thereafter.
Subsequent reappointment is subject to endorsement by Remuneration Committee Chairman 20,000 the Board and the approval of shareholders.
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are considered annually and Following the implementation of the relevant provisions of the are determined in light of market best practice and with reference to Companies Act 2006, an appointment of a Non-Executive Director the time commitment and responsibilities associated with the roles.
made by the Company from 1 October 2007 is made on the basis The basic annual fee reflects the Boards view of the inclusive nature of a two year term: such appointment being subject to approval by of the duties of the Non-Executive Directors which is reflected in its Length of service Date of last as at 2010 Annual Date of reappointment General Meeting Non-Executive Director appointment at AGM Years Karen fide Segundo 1 October 2007 30 April 2008 2.7 Robert Lerwill 1 January 2005 30 April 2009 5.4 Ana Maria Llopis 24 February 2003 30 April 2008 7.2 Christine Morin-Postel 1 October 2007 30 April 2008 2.7 Gerry Murphy 13 March 2009 30 April 2009 1.1 Anthony Ruys 1 March 2006 30 April 2008 4.2 Sir Nicholas Scheele 28 February 2005 30 April 2009 5.2 On termination, at any time, a Non-Executive Director is entitled to any accrued but unpaid Directors fees but not to any other compensation.
88 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 policy that Non-Executive Directors do not receive additional fees for The terms of Jan du Plessis appointment provided for: 1 an annual attendance at Board Committee meetings.
It is expected that all Nonfee of 620,000 from 1 April 2009 : 2 the use of a driver: and Executive Directors will sit on the Remuneration and the Nominations 3 private medical insurance and personal accident insurance benefits.
Committees and will either be a member of the Audit Committee or He did not participate in the British American Tobacco share schemes, the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
bonus schemes or incentive plans and was not a member of any Group pension plan.
Non-Executive Directors fees including those of the Chairman are determined within the overall aggregate annual limit of 2,500,000 Richard Burrows was appointed as a Director and Chairman Designate authorised by shareholders with reference to the Companys Articles of the Company with effect from 1 September 2009 and as Chairman of Association.
The Board as a whole considers the policy and structure of the Company from 1 November 2009.
The terms of his appointment for the Non-Executive Directors fees on the recommendation of the provide that he holds the appointment for an initial term of two years Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Non-Executive Directors do unless terminated earlier by: 1 the Company giving three months not participate in discussions on their specific levels of remuneration.
notice or a discretionary compensation payment in lieu of notice: or 2 by him giving one months written notice: with the Company Non-Executive Directors receive no other pay or benefits with the having discretion to make a compensation payment in lieu of such exception of reimbursement of expenses incurred in respect of their notice.
The compensation payment is limited to any fees which are duties as Directors of the Company.
It is the policy of the Board that payable for such part of the relevant notice period as the Board does the spouses of the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors not require him as Chairman to perform his duties.
may accompany the Directors for business purposes on designated trips and functions during the year.
As a Director of the Company, the Chairman is subject to the reappointment of Directors provisions contained in the Companys Anthony Ruys is a non-executive director of ITC Limited ITC an Articles of Association.
A resolution for Richard Burrows reappointment associated undertaking of the Company.
During the year ended as a Director will be put to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 31 December 2009, Anthony Ruys received INR196,712 2,475 28 April 2010. in fees from ITC.
This amount is the subject of an annual supplement from the Group so that he receives a total annual fee for this The terms of Richard Burrows appointment provide for: 1 an annual appointment of 75,000. fee of 525,000: 2 the use of a driver: 3 private medical insurance and personal accident insurance benefits: 4 the reimbursement by the Chairmans terms of appointment and remuneration Company of the cost of return airline tickets to London from Ireland The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the terms in connection with his duties as Chairman: and 5 the provision by of engagement and fees payable to the Chairman.
This process takes the Company of temporary accommodation in London for a maximum into account the breadth of that role coupled with its associated levels period of six months from the date of his appointment to the Board.
In of commitment and expertise.
common with the Non-Executive Directors, Richard Burrows does not Jan du Plessis resigned as a Director and as Chairman of the Company participate in the British American Tobacco share schemes, bonus schemes on 31 October 2009.
His terms of appointment provided that he held or incentive plans and is not a member of any Group pension plan.
the office of Chairman with effect from 1 July 2007 for a period of The Remuneration Committee has concluded that, as his fees had been three years unless terminated earlier by: 1 the Company giving three benchmarked immediately prior to his appointment, the next review months notice or a discretionary compensation payment in lieu of of Richard Burrows fees would not take place until February 2011. notice: or 2 by the Chairman giving one months written notice with the Company having discretion to make a compensation payment in Copies of service contracts and terms of appointment lieu of such notice.
Any such compensation payment would have been Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts and the details limited to any fees which were payable for such part of the relevant of the terms of appointment of each Non-Executive Director and the notice period as the Board did not require the Chairman to perform Chairman are available for inspection during normal business hours at his duties.
Jan du Plessis did not receive any compensation payment the Companys registered office and will also be available for inspection upon his departure from the Company.
at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2010.
Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 89 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Appendices to the Remuneration report Table 1: Aggregate emoluments audited The emoluments of the Directors of British American Tobacco p. l. c. were as follows: 2009 2008 Salaries and fees 3,807,417 3,261,829 Benefits: cash and non-cash 779,927 696,101 Performance-related pay cash bonus 1,572,915 1,816,952 deferred share bonus 1,572,915 1,816,952 DSBS and LTIP dividend equivalents 459,222 429,705 Share Reward Scheme 8,100 4,919 Former Directors 747,543 1,944,240 Total 8,948,039 9,970,698 Table 2: Individual fees of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors audited Fees Benefits Total 2009 Total 2008 Jan du Plessis until 31 October 2009 511,667 73,252 584,919 686,141 1 Richard Burrows from 1 September 2009 175,000 3,317 178,317 Karen fide Segundo 110,000 8,082 118,082 104,984 Robert Lerwill 115,000 1,331 116,331 117,435 Ana Maria Llopis 90,000 90,000 75,000 Christine Morin-Postel 90,000 90,000 75,000 Gerry Murphy from 13 March 2009 72,000 958 72,958 Anthony Ruys 110,000 110,000 108,096 Sir Nicholas Scheele 115,000 811 115,811 112,110 Former Non-Executive Directors Kenneth Clarke until 30 April 2008 101,450 Thys Visser until 30 April 2009 30,000 30,000 86,018 Total 1,418,667 87,751 1,506,418 1,466,234 Notes: 1 Richard Burrows was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 September 2009.
He succeeded Jan du Plessis as Chairman on 1 November 2009.
2 The Chairmans benefits comprise the use of a company driver and travel and other expenses incurred in connection with accompanied attendance at business functions.
3 Benefits for the Non-Executive Directors comprise those expenses incurred in connection with accompanied attendance at business functions.
4 In addition, Anthony Ruys received INR196,712 2,475 from ITC Limited, the Groups Indian associated undertaking, in respect of his services as a Non-Executive Director of that company from 20 January 2009.
This was supplemented by a further 68,621 paid by the Group for services up to and including 31 December 2009.
90 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 Table 3: Summary individual emoluments of Executive Directors audited PerformanceSalary Benefits related pay Total 2009 Total 2008 Paul Adams 1,213,750 146,761 1,956,237 3,316,748 3,578,588 Nicandro Durante 622,500 450,758 848,940 1,922,198 1,728,299 Ben Stevens 582,500 94,657 807,975 1,485,132 1,354,787 Total 2,418,750 692,176 3,613,152 6,724,078 6,661,674 PerformanceSalary Benefits related pay Total 2009 Total 2008 Former Executive Directors Antonio Monteiro fide Castro until 31 December 2007 709,421 709,421 309,041 Paul Rayner until 30 April 2008 8,122 8,122 1,533,749 Total 717,543 717,543 1,842,790 Notes: 1 Included in the total shown for Antonio Monteiro fide Castro for 2008 are amounts which include outstanding holiday entitlement 56,210 and an LTIP dividend payment 116,956 on the vesting of his outstanding LTIP awards which were due to him at the date of his retirement.
2 The benefits shown for Antonio Monteiro fide Castro comprise principally: 1 a tax payment of 607,041 in respect of outstanding liabilities that arose between 1996 and 2004 this period covers both his service as a member of the Management Board and, from March 2002, as a Director of the Company which have been agreed with HMRC subsequent to his retirement at the end of 2007: and 2 tax advice in connection with his relocation back to Brazil.
3 The Executive Directors remuneration shown above does not include, in respect of the LTIP awards made in May 2007 and which will vest on 15 May 2010: 1 the illustrative values of those awards as at 22 February 2010 reference should be made to the illustrative values shown for each Executive Director in Table 6 : and 2 the values of the LTIP dividend equivalent payments to be made in respect of those awards which are: Paul Adams 397,386: Nicandro Durante 85,833: and Ben Stevens 95,370.
Table 4: Analysis of remuneration of Executive Directors audited Paul Adams 2009 2008 Salary 1,213,750 Salary 1,157,500 Benefits: cash 16,780 Benefits: cash 15,840 Benefits: non-cash 129,981 Benefits: non-cash 105,104 Annual cash bonus 829,325 Annual cash bonus 999,460 Value of deferred share bonus 829,325 Value of deferred share bonus 999,460 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 61,318 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 56,877 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 233,569 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 242,560 Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during year 2,700 Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during year 1,787 Total see Table 3 3,316,748 Total see Table 3 3,578,588 Notes: 1 Cash benefits comprise: 1 a car allowance 15,840 : and 2 the buy-out of a UK employee entitlement in May 2009.
2 Non-cash benefits comprise: 1 life and health insurance 64,765 : 2 the use of a company driver: and 3 other expenses incurred in connection with accompanied attendance at business functions and or corporate hospitality events.
3 Cash dividend equivalent payments: 1 DSBS these are cash sums equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position on all unvested ordinary shares comprised in the share awards held by participants in the DSBS at each dividend record date: and 2 LTIP this is a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that an LTIP participant would have received as a shareholder on the actual number of shares vesting under an LTIP award.
Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 91 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Table 4: Analysis of remuneration of Executive Directors audited continued Nicandro Durante 2009 2008 Salary 622,500 Salary 473,496 Benefits: cash 43,157 Benefits: cash 9,725 Benefits: non-cash 407,601 Benefits: non-cash 279,144 Annual cash bonus 383,985 Annual cash bonus 460,500 Value of deferred share bonus 383,985 Value of deferred share bonus 460,500 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 13,690 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 11,364 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 64,580 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 32,225 Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during year 2,700 Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during year 1,345 Total see Table 3 1,922,198 Total see Table 3 1,728,299 Notes: 1 Nicandro Durantes salary for the year ended 2008 was 600,000.
Salary overpayments totalling 126,504 made in 2006 and 2007 at the time of Nicandro Durantes relocation from Brazil were repaid in 2008 and were reflected in his salary disclosed for that year.
2 Cash benefits comprise: 1 a car allowance 13,560 : 2 an accommodation allowance 25,424 and related allowances in respect of his relocation from Brazil 3,234 : and the buy-out of a UK employee entitlement in May 2009.
3 Non-cash benefits comprise: 1 life and health insurance 17,428 : 2 tax advice 28,824 : 3 the use of a company driver: 4 travel and related costs in respect of his relocation from Brazil 146,298 : 5 welfare tax payments, introduced in July 2009, payable by Souza Cruz in respect of Nicandro Durantes subsisting employment rights in Brazil 153,829 : and 6 other expenses incurred in connection with accompanied attendance at business functions and or corporate hospitality events.
4 Cash dividend equivalent payments: 1 DSBS these are cash sums equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position on all unvested ordinary shares comprised in the share awards held by participants in the DSBS at each dividend record date: and 2 LTIP this is a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that an LTIP participant would have received as a shareholder on the actual number of shares vesting under an LTIP award.
Ben Stevens 2009 2008 Salary 582,500 Salary 446,667 Benefits: cash 14,500 Benefits: cash 9,105 Benefits: non-cash 80,157 Benefits: non-cash 96,565 Annual cash bonus 359,605 Annual cash bonus 356,992 Value of deferred share bonus 359,605 Value of deferred share bonus 356,992 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 17,896 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 15,337 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 68,169 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 71,342 Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during year 2,700 Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during year 1,787 Total see Table 3 1,485,132 Total see Table 3 1,354,787 Notes: 1 The 2008 figures have been apportioned to reflect the amounts received from his appointment on 3 March 2008.
2 Cash benefits comprise: 1 a car allowance 13,560 : and 2 the buy-out of a UK employee entitlement in May 2009.
3 Non-cash benefits comprise: 1 life and health insurance 5,856 : 2 the use of a company driver: and 3 other expenses incurred in connection with accompanied attendance at business functions and or corporate hospitality events.
92 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 Table 5: Directors interests in British American Tobacco p. l. c. ordinary shares of 25p At 1 Jan 2009 Changes or date of At from At appointment 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2009 22 Feb 2010 1 Richard Burrows 10,000 10,000 Paul Adams 144,147 164,617 12 164,629 Ben Stevens 35,196 49,983 49,983 Nicandro Durante 101,274 106,778 12 106,790 Karen fide Segundo 4,050 4,050 4,050 Robert Lerwill 3,000 3,000 3,000 Ana Maria Llopis 2,200 2,200 2,200 Christine Morin-Postel 4,700 4,700 4,700 1 Gerry Murphy 3,000 3,000 Anthony Ruys 3,000 3,000 3,000 Sir Nicholas Scheele 5,000 5,000 5,000 Notes: 1 Richard Burrows was appointed as a Director on 1 September 2009 and Gerry Murphy was appointed as a Director on 13 March 2009.
2 The changes in Directors interests since 31 December 2009 relate to the purchase of shares pursuant to the Companys Partnership Share Scheme.
3 Based on the performance for 2009, the Executive Directors will each be awarded a number of ordinary shares to the value of 2,030 pursuant to an appropriation of shares under the Share Reward Scheme on 1 April 2010.
4 In addition to the shares shown above, the Executive Directors have the following interests in the ordinary shares of the Company set out in Table 6 below and which are held in trust pursuant to the British American Tobacco DSBS.
The value of these shares has been included as Directors emoluments in the prior year.
Details of the DSBS are given in the Remuneration report.
5 On 31 December 2009, the Groups employee share ownership trust referred to in the Remuneration report held a total of 14,679,045 ordinary shares in the Company.
All participating employees, including the Executive Directors, are deemed to have a beneficial interest in these shares.
Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 93 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Table 6: Executive Directors 1 Long-Term Incentive Plan awards: 2 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme share interests: and 3 share options ordinary shares of 25p in British American Tobacco p. l. c. audited Paul Adams Shares Long-Term Incentive Plan At At Illustrative 1 Jan Awarded Vested Lapsed 31 Dec Value value 2009 in 2009 in 2009 in 2009 2009 vested vesting 2 3 Vesting 2010 Performance Award Number Number Number Number Number in 2009 a LTIP plan period date of shares of shares of shares of shares of shares date 1998 2006 2008 15 Mar 06 113,493 113,493 1,933,921 15 Mar 09 2007 2007 2009 15 May 07 159,337 159,337 15 May 10 3,505,414 2007 2008 2010 15 May 08 163,418 163,418 15 May 11 2007 2009 2011 27 Mar 09 224,192 224,192 27 Mar 12 Total 436,248 224,192 113,493 546,947 1,933,921 3,505,414 Note: a The LTIP award that vested on 15 March 2009 was exercised by Paul Adams on 7 May 2009.
Shares Deferred Share Bonus Scheme At 1 Jan Awarded Released At 31 Dec 2 2009 in 2009 in 2009 2009 Award Number Number Number Number date of shares of shares of shares of shares 15 Mar 06 34,858 34,858 13 Mar 07 46,083 46,083 13 Mar 08 25,603 25,603 27 Mar 09 63,297 63,297 Total 106,544 63,297 34,858 134,983 Options Sharesave Scheme At 1 Jan Granted Exercised At 31 Dec Dates 1,2 2009 in 2009 in 2009 2009 from Latest Number Grant Grant Number Number Number which expiry of shares date price of shares of shares of shares exercisable date 2,492 25 Nov 04 663.0p 2,492 Jan 2010 Jun 2010 94 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 Table 6: Executive Directors 1 Long-Term Incentive Plan awards: 2 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme share interests: and 3 share options ordinary shares of 25p in British American Tobacco p. l. c. audited continued Ben Stevens Shares Long-Term Incentive Plan At At Illustrative 1 Jan Awarded Vested Lapsed 31 Dec Value value 2009 in 2009 in 2009 in 2009 2009 vested vesting 2 3 Vesting 2010 Performance Award Number Number Number Number Number in 2009 a LTIP plan period date of shares of shares of shares of shares of shares date 1998 2006 2008 15 Mar 06 33,124 33,124 564,433 15 Mar 09 2007 2007 2009 15 May 07 38,240 38,240 15 May 10 841,280 2007 2008 2010 15 May 08 53,098 53,098 15 May 11 2007 2009 2011 27 Mar 09 88,663 88,663 27 Mar 12 Total 124,462 88,663 33,124 180,001 564,433 841,280 Note: a The LTIP award that vested on 15 March 2009 was exercised by Ben Stevens on 26 March 2009.
Shares Deferred Share Bonus Scheme At 1 Jan Awarded Released At 31 Dec 2 2009 in 2009 in 2009 2009 Award Number Number Number Number date of shares of shares of shares of shares 15 Mar 06 9,539 9,539 13 Mar 07 12,293 12,293 13 Mar 08 6,655 6,655 27 Mar 09 26,114 26,114 Total 28,487 26,114 9,539 45,062 Options Sharesave Scheme At 1 Jan Granted Exercised At 31 Dec Dates 1,2 2009 in 2009 in 2009 2009 from Latest Number Grant Grant Number Number Number which expiry of shares date price of shares of shares of shares exercisable date 2,492 25 Nov 04 663.0p 2,492 Jan 2010 Jun 2010 25 Nov 09 1,555.0p 1,000 1,000 Jan 2015 Jun 2015 Total 2,492 1,000 3,492 Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 95 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Table 6: Executive Directors 1 Long-Term Incentive Plan awards: 2 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme share interests: and 3 share options ordinary shares of 25p in British American Tobacco p. l. c. audited continued Nicandro Durante Shares Long-Term Incentive Plan At At Illustrative 1 Jan Awarded Vested Lapsed 31 Dec Value value 2009 in 2009 in 2009 in 2009 2009 vested vesting Performance Award Number Number Number Number Number in 2009 Vesting 2010 LTIP plan period date of shares of shares of shares of shares of shares date 2007 2008 2010 15 May 08 74,962 74,962 15 May 11 2007 2009 2011 27 Mar 09 94,996 94,996 27 Mar 12 Total 74,962 94,996 169,958 Notes: a In March 2006, Nicandro Durante received from the Company a cash-based award equivalent in value to 31,380 shares, subject to the same performance conditions and vesting terms as awards made under the 1998 LTIP plan.
This award vested on 15 March 2009 and is now exercisable: it will be cash settled by the Company upon exercise.
b In May 2007, Nicandro Durante received from the Company a cash-based award equivalent in value to 34,416 shares, subject to the same performance conditions and vesting terms as awards made under the 2007 LTIP plan.
This award will vest on 15 May 2010 and will be cash settled by the Company upon exercise.
Based on the share price on 22 February 2010 the latest practicable date prior to publication of 2,200.0p, he will receive a cash payment of 757,152.
Shares Deferred Share Bonus Scheme At 1 Jan Awarded Released At 31 Dec 2009 in 2009 in 2009 2009 Award Number Number Number Number date of shares of shares of shares of shares 13 Mar 07 10,566 10,566 13 Mar 08 6,028 6,028 27 Mar 09 29,164 29,164 Total 16,594 29,164 45,758 Note: a In March 2006, Nicandro Durante received a cash-based award on equivalent terms to the DSBS with a value equivalent to 5,380 Deferred Shares from the Companys subsidiary, Souza Cruz S. A. a former employing company of Nicandro Durante.
This award was released and cash settled by Souza Cruz S. A. during 2009.
Options Sharesave Scheme At 1 Jan Granted Exercised At 31 Dec Dates 1,2 2009 in 2009 in 2009 2009 from Latest Number Grant Grant Number Number Number which expiry of shares date price of shares of shares of shares exercisable date 1,421 24 Nov 06 1,152.0p 1,421 Jan 2012 Jun 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan notes: 1 The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. on 15 March 2006 was 1,435.0p, on 15 May 2007 was 1,590.0p, on 15 May 2008 was 1,966.0p, on 16 March 2009 was 1,704.0p the vesting date of 15 March 2009 not being a business day and on 27 March 2009 was 1,534.0p.
2 The vesting of the awards on 15 March 2009 was reported in the Companys Directors Report and Accounts 2008 showing illustrative vesting values based on the mid-market price of ordinary shares of 1,719.0p at 23 February 2009, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of that Report.
3 The May 2007 award will vest on 15 May 2010 at 100 per cent in the manner described in the Remuneration report.
For illustrative purposes only, the share price on 22 February 2010, being the latest practicable date prior to publication, of 2,200.0p has been used to value the vesting awards.
4 The performance conditions applicable to the LTIP awards relate to an apportionment between measures relating to TSR and EPS-based criteria with reference to a three year performance period.
TSR combines both the share price and dividend performance of the Company as set against two comparator groups: a the FTSE 100 Index at the beginning of the performance period: and b a peer group of FMCG companies.
A total of 50 per cent of the total award is based upon each of two separate measures 25 per cent for each measure.
In the event of upper quartile performance by the Company relative to the comparator groups referred to above, 25 per cent of the total award vests in full.
From 2008, 6 per cent of the total award vests for median performance 7.5 per cent for the 2006 and 2007 awards.
The TSR portions of an LTIP award do not vest for below median performance.
50 per cent of an award is based on EPS growth relative to inflation.
This element of the award will vest fully if EPS growth over the three year performance period is an average of at least 8 per cent per annum in excess of inflation.
10 per cent 8 per cent for awards made since 2008 of this element will vest if the EPS growth over the performance period is 3 per cent in excess of inflation.
An award will vest on a pro rata basis between these two points.
The EPS portion of an award does not vest if EPS growth is less than 3 per cent in excess of inflation.
5 There have been no variations in the terms and conditions of the LTIP interests during the year.
6 The awards made in May 2008 and March 2009 are due to vest in May 2011 and March 2012 respectively.
At 31 December 2009, the performance percentage reflecting performance to date, was 100 per cent for the May 2008 award and 50 per cent for the March 2009 award.
Deferred Share Bonus Scheme notes: Each Executive Director has an interest in the ordinary shares of the Company, as shown in the DSBS tables, which are held in trust pursuant to the British American Tobacco DSBS.
1 2 The DSBS shares awarded on 15 March 2006 vested on 16 March 2009 15 March 2009 not being a business day.
The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. on 16 March 2009 was 1,704.0p.
96 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 Table 6: Executive Directors 1 Long-Term Incentive Plan awards: 2 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme share interests: and 3 share options ordinary shares of 25p in British American Tobacco p. l. c. audited continued Sharesave Scheme notes: 1 In respect of the Executive Directors, no options lapsed during the year ended 31 December 2009.
There have been no variations in the terms and conditions of these interests in share options during the year.
Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable in conjunction with a three year or five year savings contract up to a monthly limit of 250.
Options are normally granted at a discount of 20 per cent to the market price at the time of the invitation, as permitted under the rules of the Sharesave Scheme.
2 There were no Sharesave options exercised by Executive Directors during the year and therefore no aggregate gains were made 2008: nil.
3 The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. on 31 December 2009 was 2,016.5p and the range during the year was 1,495.0p to 2,032.5p.
The market price on 31 December 2009 exceeded the grant price of all the options detailed in the share options tables for the Executive Directors.
Table 7: Executive Directors pension entitlements audited Transfer value Transfer value Transfer value Total Total accrued Gross increase Increase in of net increase of accrued of accrued change in Normal pension at in accrued accrued pension in accrual pension at pension at transfer value retirement 31 Dec 2009 pension net of inflation over period 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2009 during period age Paul Adams 60 567,071 55,771 43,523 992,910 10,478,739 12,936,971 2,458,232 Nicandro Durante 60 384,449 97,344 90,466 1,875,855 5,245,580 7,971,698 2,726,118 Ben Stevens 60 157,464 28,659 25,574 500,557 2,173,058 3,082,063 909,005 Notes: 1 The amount of total accrued pension is the pension that would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year, excluding any increase granted under statute before retirement.
2 The value of net increase in accrued pension represents the incremental value to the Executive Director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption that service terminated at the year end.
3 Changes in the transfer values reflect both individual Executive Directors circumstances such as the date of joining the Pension Fund and changes in salary during the year together with the application of market value adjustments in accordance with actuarial and legislative requirements.
Following completion of the ongoing funding valuation of the Pension Fund in June 2009, the Trustee of the Pension Fund reviewed the method and assumptions used to calculate transfer values and decided to amend the transfer value basis.
The Trustees agreed transfer value basis was updated to remain consistent with that used for the ongoing funding of the Pension Fund.
The transfer value at 31 December 2008 shown above has been calculated in line with the transfer value basis in force at that time, whereas the transfer value at 31 December 2009 has been calculated in line with the revised transfer value basis.
The transfer values of the accrued entitlement represent the value of assets that the Pension Fund would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the Pension Funds liability in respect of Executive Directors pension benefits.
They do not represent sums payable to individual Executive Directors and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
Further, although Nicandro Durante is not a member of the Pension Fund, the transfer values calculated above have been calculated in accordance with the method used for the Pension Fund.
Although Paul Adams and Ben Stevens receive a significant element of their overall entitlement from an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme, the transfer values calculated above have been calculated in accordance with the method used for the Pension Fund.
4 The Pension Fund is non-contributory.
Voluntary contributions paid by Executive Directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
No excess retirement benefits have been paid to or are receivable by any Executive Director or past Executive Director.
5 Nicandro Durante is entitled to a benefit promise of 0.65 per cent of final sterling pensionable salary calculated as a 12 month average in relation to service from 1 March 2006.
In addition, he is entitled to a pension from the Souza Cruz Pension Scheme based on an accrual rate of 1.85 per cent of final Brazilian real pensionable salary calculated as 12 month average in relation to service from December 1981 the value of this pension in terms of sterling has increased during 2009 due to a 21 per cent strengthening of the Brazilian real.
The accrued pension amount and transfer values shown above are based on the sum of these promises i. e. with accrual rate since 1 March 2006 being a total of 2.5 per cent.
Nicandro Durante is entitled to receive that part of the promise from the Souza Cruz Pension Scheme based on 1.85 per cent accrual rate with immediate effect: this entitlement has been ignored for the purposes of the above transfer value.
Status of Remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with the relevant provisions and will not be specific to individual levels of remuneration.
The of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 5 and Schedule 8 to the Large Companies Act 2006 requires the auditors to report to the Companys and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports shareholders on the audited information within the Report and to Regulations 2008.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the Report have been the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and describes how the Board prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The report of has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to Directors the independent auditors, in respect of the Company, addresses those remuneration as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance aspects of this Report and which have been subject to audit have been referred to in the Corporate governance statement.
As required by the clearly marked: Table 1, Table 2, Table 3, Table 4, Table 6 and Table 7.
Companies Act 2006, a resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration On behalf of the Board report the Report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of Anthony Ruys the Company on 28 April 2010, at which the financial statements will Chairman of the Remuneration Committee be presented for approval.
The vote will have advisory status, will be in 24 February 2010 respect of the remuneration policy and overall remuneration packages Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 97
