SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT The Companys remuneration policy for Under the DASBS, eligible executives, Service contracts 2009 and beyond is designed to help ensure including the executive directors, receive the It is the Companys policy that executive the recruitment, retention and motivation of deferred element of their annual bonus as an directors are normally employed on contracts the executive directors by providing fair reward award of ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares that provide for 12 months notice from the for the responsibilities they undertake and are transferred to the executive on 1 March Company and six months notice from the the performance they achieve on behalf of in the third year after the year in which the executive.
The non-executive directors do shareholders.
In this context, the Remuneration award is made, provided normally the not have service contracts.
Committees policy is to set the overall executive has remained in the employment remuneration package at a competitive level of the Group throughout that period or until Directors emoluments for 2009 and in a form that permits significant their normal retirement date.
The directors aggregate emoluments for additional remuneration to be earned for high 2009 were 3.2 million, the aggregate performance over a sustained period.
This is Share based incentives amount of gains made by directors on the normally achieved by benchmarking base pay The Remuneration Committee believes that exercise of share options during the year against comparator companies and a range the long term performance of the Group is was nil, the aggregate market value of of factors, including performance, and by an important consideration for shareholders performance share awards exercised by providing, in addition, short and long term and that share based incentives are an directors under long term incentive schemes incentives geared to performance.
important part of helping to align the interests during the year was 0.9 million, the aggregate of shareholders and those employed by the market value of shares exercised by directors In assessing the balance of performance Group.
A formal share ownership guideline is under the DASBS was 0.7 million and the related and non-performance related in place under which executive directors are aggregate amount of contributions paid elements of remuneration, base pay and expected over a period of time to retain a by the Company to money purchase pension benefits are treated as non-performance shareholding worth at least equal to their schemes in respect of the directors was related, whereas annual bonus including basic salaries.
Two of the current directors awards under the Deferred Annual Share participate in defined benefit pension Bonus Scheme DASBS and long term The Group operates a Long Term Incentive schemes, one of whom who is no longer incentives are treated as performance Plan under which the executive directors accruing future benefits under the defined related.
For this purpose, share options and other senior executives in the Group may benefit scheme also participates in a money and performance shares are valued at an be granted options and awards in respect of purchase pension scheme.
appropriate proportion of their face value on performance shares.
Participation in the Plan grant or award.
On this basis, the Committee is at the discretion of the Committee.
The Total shareholder return sets the remuneration package such that Committee reviews biannually the level of The Companys total shareholder return about half the total target remuneration grant taking account of each executives over the last five years compared to that package is derived from the performance performance and job responsibilities.
Annual of the FTSE Support Services Sector is related elements.
grants of share options may not exceed an shown below.
amount equal to three times base salary.
In 180 Base pay normal circumstances options granted are Bunzl 170 FTSE Support Services The base pay of each executive director exercisable, subject to satisfaction of the 160 150 is set to reflect the size and scope of that relevant performance condition, after three 140 directors responsibilities undertaken on years with no provision for retesting, not 130 behalf of the Board, the level of overall earlier than three years and not later than 120 110 performance achieved, including that related 10 years after the date of grant.
Annual 100 to environmental, social and governance awards of performance shares may not 90 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 issues, and experience in the post.
It is exceed an amount equal to two times base Source: Thomson Datastream benchmarked against comparator companies salary.
A performance share award will and the actual pay level is set after taking into normally vest i. e. become exercisable on the account individual performance and the general third anniversary of its grant to the extent that movement of base pay within the Group.
the applicable performance conditions have been satisfied, with no provision for retesting, Annual bonus plan and will remain capable of being exercised The executive directors participate in an for the three year period following the date annual bonus plan intended to support the on which it vests.
The bonus plan for each executive director Retirement benefits contains meaningful targets that seek to focus The Group utilises both defined benefit attention on one or two key measures of short and defined contribution pension schemes to medium term achievement.
Half of this throughout the world.
All defined benefit annual bonus is normally paid in cash and schemes are closed to new entrants who the balance but with the total aggregate are now offered a defined contribution amount capped is deferred under the rules arrangement.
The executive directors are of the DASBS.
eligible to participate in the relevant pension scheme and or may choose to take a pension allowance, part of which can be paid into a private pension scheme.
Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 25
