DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT STATEMENT OF THE COMPANYS POLICY ON INTRODUCTION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION This report has been prepared and is submitted in accordance with The Board consists entirely of non-executive Directors, who meet the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules of regularly throughout the year to deal with the Companys affairs.
the Financial Services Authority in respect of the year ended 30 April The Companys current Articles of Association limit the total fees 2009.
It has been audited where indicated as such.
payable to all the Directors to 200,000 per annum.
An ordinary resolution to approve the report will be put to the AGM The principles of the Companys remuneration policy have been, on 29 July 2009. and will continue to be for the forthcoming financial year, that fees payable to Directors should: CONSIDERATION OF MATTERS RELATING TO DIRECTORS REMUNERATION reflect the time spent by them individually and collectively as The Remuneration Committee sits under the chairmanship of part of the Board on the Companys affairs: Mr Dicks as the Senior Independent Director with two independent be of a level appropriate to the responsibilities borne by the Directors, Mr Moule and Mr Montagu who were both elected to Directors: serve on the Committee in 2007.
The Committee considers and makes recommendations on the remuneration of the non-executive be in line with market practice and sufficient to enable Directors.
The Company has no employees other than the noncandidates of high calibre to be recruited and retained.
The policy also recognises: The Committee met on 23 April 2009 to consider the level of that the form of remuneration be in cash, payable monthly in Directors fees and having taken account of the current fee level arrears, to the Director personally or to a third party specified and the principles of the remuneration policy decided that there by him should be no fee increase for the forthcoming year.
the rates are reviewed annually: such review will not necessarily In the year under review the Directors fees were paid at the result in any change to the rates.
following annual rates, the Chairman 30,000 2008: 30,000 : other independent Directors 20,000 2008: 20,000.
The As the Company is an investment trust and all the Directors are Committee awarded a supplemental payment of 5,000 to the non-executive, it is considered inappropriate to have any long-term Chairman in respect of the additional work undertaken by him in incentive schemes and the fees are not specifically related to the dealing with advisers and the current and previous investment Directors performance, either individually or collectively.
managers in obtaining refunds of VAT previously charged on investment management fees.
PERFORMANCE A 5 year performance comparison is required to be presented in this Mr Ashford-Russell waived his fee for 2008 2009 and has indicated report.
The Dow Jones World Technology Index is shown because, as that he will do so for the forthcoming year.
a market capitalisation weighted index based on the entire global The last fee increase was in 2006 and the Committee is proposing technology sector, it is the most appropriate single market index.
to undertake in 2010 a review of the fees paid to Directors to 200 ensure they remain competitive with market rates and reflect the Dow Jones World PCTT Share Price responsibilities of Directors.
Technology Index 150 100 50 Apr Oct Apr Oct Apr Oct Apr Oct Apr Oct Apr 2004 2004 2005 2005 2006 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 34 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC SERVICE CONTRACTS REMUNERATION AUDITED None of the Directors has a contract of service or a contract for The fees payable in respect of each of the Directors, who served services and a Director may resign by giving one months notice in during the year, and during 2009, were as follows: writing to the Board at any time.
In accordance with recommended Year ended Year ended practice, each Director has received a letter setting out the terms of 30 April 2009 30 April 2008 his appointment.
R Wakeling 35,000 30,000 New Directors are appointed and re-appointed with the # # B Ashford-Russell expectation that they will serve for a period of at least three years.
P Dicks 20,000 20,000 Each Directors appointment is reviewed formally each time a D Gamble 20,000 20,000 Director retires by rotation under the Articles of Association or R Montagu 20,000 20,000 stands for reelection under the Corporate Governance Code M Moule 20,000 20,000 adopted by the Company.
TOTAL 115,000 110,000 Directors and officers liability insurance cover is held by the Company in respect of the Directors.
The Company has provided Includes supplemental fee for work carried out on VAT recovery matters # each Director with a Deed of Indemnity which indemnifies the fee of 20,000 waived Director against liability to third parties excluding criminal and No pension contributions or other remuneration or compensation regulatory penalties and to pay Directors legal costs up-front was paid or payable by the Company during the year to any of the provided they are reimbursed by the Company if the individual is current or former Directors.
convicted or, in an action brought by the Company, judgment is given against him.
A copy of each deed is available on the Approved by the Board on 11 June 2009 Companys website.
By order of the Board N P Taylor FCIS Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited Secretary ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 35 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report and accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Going concern Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in The Board assessment of the Groups position as at 30 April 2009 accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and the factors impacting the forthcoming year are set out in the Chairmans Report and the Investment Managers Review on pages Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 3 to 13 and in the Directors Report which incorporates the business for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to review and corporate governance statements.
prepare the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, and its liquidity as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the position as described in the Business Review on pages 21 to 24.
Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are Note 29 to the financial statements include the Groups policies satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of and process for managing its capital: its financial risk management the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group objectives: details of financial instruments and hedging activities.
In preparing these financial statements, the Exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk are also disclosed.
directors are required to: The Group has considerable financial resources and after making select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the make judgements and accounting estimates that are Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in reasonable and prudent: operational existence for the foreseeable future despite the continued uncertain economic outlook.
Accordingly the Directors state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual Union have been followed, subject to any material departures report and accounts.
disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Responsibility statement under the Disclosure and Transparency unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Rules continue in business.
The Directors of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc, who are listed on page 20, confirm to the best of their knowledge: The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys The financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the as adopted by the European Union, and give a true and fair view financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as whole: and regards the Groups financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS The Chairmans Report, Investment Managers Report and Regulations.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Directors Report together constituting the Management the Company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps Report includes a fair review of the development and for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
performance of the business and position of the Company and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, and the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom includes a description of the principal risks and uncertainties governing the preparation and dissemination of financial The financial statements were approved by the Board on 11 June statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
2009 and the responsibility statement was signed on its behalf by Disclosure of information to the Auditors Richard Wakeling, Chairman of the Board.
As far as the Directors are aware there is no relevant audit information R K A Wakeling of which the Auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken 11 June 2009 steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Auditors are aware of such information.
36 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC
