Governance The Capita Group Plc 79 Directors remuneration report As required by the Companies Act 2006, Statutory Instruments 2008 410 Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DAB the large and medium sized companies and groups accounts and reports It was agreed that the vesting schedule would be amended to start the Regulations 2008 and to meet the Listing Rules of the UK Listing vesting at EPS growth of RPI 4% per annum 33% of the award will vest Authority, the Directors present the report on Directors remuneration for and full vesting at EPS growth of RPI 14% per annum for awards from the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Remuneration Committee decided to reduce the EPS growth targets on the matching award by 2% compared with previous awards.
The following information is not subject to audit.
The new targets are considered to be stretching compared to many FTSE Executive summary companies especially as this growth is being measured from a high base This summary provides an overview of Directors remuneration in 2009 point given Capita's earnings growth over the last 5 years.
This would bring and outlines the changes to the previous year.
this plan in line with the Long Term Incentive Plan.
The grants made under the Long Term Incentive plan LTIP 2008 were: Following the introduction of the 50% tax rate by the Government, a review was undertaken of the share plans and the impact that this change Director Number of nil cost options would have on the participants.
Paul Pindar 165,000 In respect of the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan it was agreed that the use of Simon Pilling 120,000 restricted shares would be made available to the Directors.
This meant Gordon Hurst 120,000 that they could choose to turn their deferred award into restricted shares and pay the tax and national insurance due prior to the tax rate change.
Maggi Bell 80,000 The restricted shares are held in trust and have the same conditions as the Paddy Doyle 48,000 deferred award.
No change was made to the matching awards as there are performance conditions attached to these and this would have required an Under this plan up to 165,000 nil cost options can be granted or 300% of early vesting for these awards.
an individuals salary, whichever is the greater.
The Remuneration There was no impact to the accounting treatment of these awards and no Committee have chosen to award the maximum to Paul Pindar in line detriment to the Company in respect of the changes made to the DAB.
with its objectives to award lower fourth quartile basic salary with top quartile performance related rewards.
The DAB is due to expire in 2010.
The Company will seek to renew this plan for a further 10 years at the forthcoming AGM.
Base salaries Due to the weak economic conditions in 2009 the basic salaries of Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP 2008 Executive Directors and senior management were held at 2008 levels, It has been agreed that the full vesting of this award would be at EPS apart from those in positions who were promoted or changed their growth of RPI 14% per annum for awards from 2010. responsibilities.
This will be continued for 2010.
The Committee believes The Committee considered the stretching nature of the performance that it is important that the pay freeze reects the remuneration decisions conditions and it was felt that this continued to be a challenging target for being taken across our businesses.
The Committee noted that all the Executive Directors and no less challenging to previous awards.
They employees are paid in accordance with the market conditions and business also considered other measures for the performance conditions and this requirement for their role.
There is no system of comparing the differential included Total Shareholder Return TSR and also softer objectives.
It was across the Group as it consists of a diverse mix of businesses and it would concluded that an auditable target was most appropriate and that other reduce the ability for salaries to be decided at a business level.
It is also objectives would be part of the annual review of the Director.
important that the remuneration for all our employees is decided on the business need and market conditions for any given role.
We believe that this policy keeps us competitive as a business and within the sector in Remuneration strategy and policy for Executive Directors which we operate.
The table below shows our remuneration strategy and policy for our Annual bonuses Executive Directors and how these link to the package of remuneration: In 2009, each Executive Director was awarded a bonus of 105% of base Strategy Policy Package salary.
The bonuses are awarded on the achievement of an annual target To provide a remuneration package that: based on underlying profit before tax set at the beginning of the year by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board.
Is aligned to Set base salary at Base salary shareholders interests lower quartile level Annual bonus Although full achievement of the annual target was met on an underlying basis, the Remuneration Committee decided that the bonus should be Is competitive in the Reward upper quartile Deferred bonus scaled back.
This was due to the exceptional item in respect of estimated current market and performance with Long Term costs of 30m to resolve the issue of the suspension of 2 OEIC investment our business sector upper quartile rewards Incentive Plan funds for which Capita Financial Managers is the authorised corporate Encourages and Balance between short Share matching plan director.
This is explained further in note 4 on page 97 and in note 25 on supports a high and long term rewards page 111. performance culture with a balance on The bonus has been split between 35% of salary payable in cash and the longer term rewards remaining 70% in Deferred Shares under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan.
Attracts, retains Competitive package Pension provision This is a reduction of 25% of the total bonus that would otherwise have and motivates of benets Car allowance been awarded.
The Deferred Annual Bonus Plan also includes a matching Healthcare award of up to 1.5 shares for each deferred share dependent on All employee achievement of certain performance criteria over a 3 year period.
share plans The bonus for the year therefore reects the performance of the Company and has been weighted towards long term share based incentives, strongly linking the interests of the Executive Directors with those of the Groups shareholders.
80 The Capita Group Plc Directors remuneration report The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually and updated as required.
"The terms of reference were recommended and # # ""' """" %# # & % # %# $ "" $# approved by the Board."
These are available at www.
co. uk investors or copies can be requested from the Company Secretary.
"% "" "" %""#$ Advisers to the Committee During 2009 the Committee sought advice from  PwC, the remuneration advisers, as required."
Paul Pindar was invited to provide further information to the Committee on the performance and proposed remuneration for the Executive Directors and other senior ' ' management.
"PwC also provide services in respect of overseas tax compliance, share $ $ "" # !"
"plans and other ad hoc tax projects. """
""" "" $ "" KPMG were also engaged to review some elements of the Long Term Incentive Plan and the Deferred Annual Bonus during the year."
"KPMG also provides services in respect of share plans and ad hoc tax projects. ""'"
"# $ "" $# Combined Code # %# $ "" $ & # The Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section B of the Financial Reporting Council's Combined Code on Corporate Governance % "" June 2008. """
"%""#$ The Remuneration Committee confirmed that the remuneration strategy and policies remained in line with the Financial Services Authority guidance, sent out in October 2008."
"Comparison of Total Shareholder Returns ' ' The following chart compares the value of an investment of 100 in the Companys shares with an investment of the same amount in the FTSE All $ $ "" # !"
Share Index and the FTSE 350 Support Services Index over the 5 years starting 1 January 2005 and ending 31 December 2009 assuming that all dividend income is reinvested.
The Committee is of the opinion that this Capitas Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the remuneration comparison provides a clear picture of the performance of the Group policy is appropriate, particularly with regard to total executive relative to both a wide range of companies in the United Kingdom and also remuneration and Group performance.
The Committee plans to continue a specic group of companies within the same sector.
this approach in its future remuneration policy.
"Consistent with this principle, approximately half of an Executives target total remuneration ! """
is performance-linked and weighted to the long term.
$ # increases in the case of performance above target.
For further information regarding the remuneration strategy for Directors and the wider workforce please see page 37.
Remuneration Committee membership Martina King was Chairperson of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee during the year is shown below.
Eric Walters was a member of the Remuneration Committee in 2008, but stood down as a member at the beginning of 2009.
The Committee met 3 times and the attendance is shown below: Name of Director Number of meetings attended # !
& Martina King 3 Bill Grimsey 3 A 100 investment in Capita shares on 1 January 2005 would be worth Martin Bolland 3 224.60 at 31 December 2009 compared to 137.10 for an investment in the FTSE All Share Index and 136.80 for an investment in the FTSE 350 Terms of reference Support Services Index.
The Remuneration Committee has formal terms of reference and these are agreed by the Board.
These include: Setting and reviewing performance targets Determining remuneration and benets for Executive Directors and senior management Determining contractual terms for Executive Directors Granting of long term incentive plan options.
The Committee also considers the remuneration packages within the organisation when reviewing the Executive Directors remuneration.
Governance The Capita Group Plc 81 Elements of remuneration Share plans Basic salary and benets Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DAB The Committee regularly commissions independent reviews of the salaries The Deferred Annual Bonus Plan was approved and adopted at the and benets of the Executive Directors.
The policy adopted by the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2005.
The DAB is comprised of Committee requires that basic salaries and benets be below those Deferred Shares, which form part of the annual bonus scheme, and provided to comparable roles in comparable companies to enable the Matching Shares.
provision of a higher performance-related element of remuneration.
The Committee believes that this plan focuses participants on delivering This low basic salary policy allows the Directors to provide a lead in terms strong year-on-year annual performance, which will in turn drive long of keeping xed remuneration costs low across the Group as a whole and term shareholder value creation.
Executive Directors and Divisional is reective of the Groups remuneration policy in general.
The continued Directors are eligible to participate in the DAB.
success of the Group has enabled it to provide the benets of a highly This plan is split into 2 elements.
The Deferred Award which can be geared reward structure which delivers a competitive total awarded as a gross deferred award or as a net restricted share award and remuneration package.
this is made as part of the bonus for the year ending 31 December 2009.
Annual bonus This part is not subject to performance conditions.
The second part is The maximum annual bonus potential for Executive Directors is 140% awarded as a matching award which has performance conditions.
The value of the annual bonus is determined at the start of the This part is awarded as a ratio of 1.5 for each gross share awarded under financial year and payment triggered at a pre-determined Group profit the deferred award.
Although this is a xed amount the calculation is before tax target.
based on a percentage of salary.
In 2009 this was 70% of base salary which is the maximum that could be awarded.
Information on the bonuses paid for the period to 31 December 2009 is detailed on page 79.
In February 2009, an aggregate of 151,176 Deferred Shares were awarded to Executive Directors at a price of 657.5p, being the market price Non-Executive Directors determined, as detailed on page 83.
Non-Executive Directors fees reect the time, commitment and The DAB operates as follows: responsibilities of the role.
They are reviewed annually and determined by the Executive Directors.
The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors The value of Deferred Shares is determined by the entitlement under the include consideration of all the responsibilities that they are asked to annual bonus scheme: half of the bonus entitlement is paid in cash and the undertake.
The Non-Executive Directors have equal responsibilities and remainder is deferred, on a gross basis, into deferred shares.
The Deferred therefore receive equal pay.
Shares are held for a period of 3 years from the date of award.
They are only forfeited in the case of dismissal for gross misconduct.
Non-Executive Directors' fees were held at 2008 levels of 42,500.
They are not paid further amounts for specic duties and responsibilities, such A conditional award of Matching Shares is made at the same time as as chairing a committee.
Eric Walters was paid 105,000 per annum as the award of Deferred Shares.
Participants are eligible to receive up to Chairman of the Group to the end of 2009.
Non-Executive Directors fees 1.5 Matching Shares for every Deferred Share.
Matching Shares vest after are reviewed regularly.
the 3 year holding period to the extent to which performance criteria have been met.
During the year an aggregate of 226,762 Matching Shares were Service contracts awarded to Executive Directors as detailed on page 83 and subject to the The service contracts for Executive Directors are for an indefinite period following performance conditions.
and provide for a 1 year notice period.
They do not include provisions for The Committee has decided that the performance condition that will predetermined compensation on termination that exceed 1 years salary apply to the Matching Shares is earnings per share EPS growth against and benets.
There are no arrangements in place between the Company the UK Retail Price Index RPI.
The Committee believes that long term and its Directors that provide for compensation for loss of ofce following EPS growth is the most appropriate performance condition for the a takeover bid.
Company as it is a key indicator of shareholder value creation.
The EPS All Directors are appointed for an indefinite period but are subject to based performance conditions are as follows.
The proportion of awards re-election at the Annual General Meeting every 3 years.
that vest will be determined by the following schedule: Details of the contracts are set out below: EPS growth of RPI 6% per annum 33% of the award vests EPS growth of RPI 16% per annum 100% of the award vests Executive Directors Date of contract Notice period Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
Paul Pindar 17 December 2007 12 months Gordon Hurst 17 December 2007 12 months Performance conditions for 2010 Awards onwards Paddy Doyle 17 December 2007 12 months The performance conditions attached to the Matching Shares awards made under the bonus scheme may be amended by the Committee from Simon Pilling 17 December 2007 12 months time to time, subject to the new performance condition being no less Maggi Bell 1 August 2008 12 months demanding than the original condition.
The Committee has considered the challenging target set for both the Paddy Doyle will move to a letter of appointment from 1 March 2010.
Executive Directors and other participants of the scheme.
It does feel that Non-Executive Directors Date of joining the Board the targets are very challenging especially as this growth is being Eric Walters 1 January 2001 measured from a high base point given Capita's earnings growth over the last 5 years.
Given this the Remuneration Committee has decided that Martin Bolland 1 March 2008 awards made in 2010 will have the following vesting conditions: Martina King 1 January 2005 EPS growth at RPI 4% per annum 33% of the award vests Bill Grimsey 9 October 2006 EPS growth at RPI 14% per annum 100% of the award vests retired 1 January 2010 Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
Although there are no non-financial targets for this plan, the annual appraisal process considers non financial measures and awards consider the prior year performance as a whole.
82 The Capita Group Plc Directors remuneration report Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 LTIP Long Term Indexed Share Appreciation Scheme LTISAS The 2008 LTIP was approved and adopted at the Annual General Meeting The LTISAS was only open to the Executive Directors and Divisional on 6 May 2008.
In calculating the LTIP awards granted to Executive Directors.
Under the scheme, participants were provided with 2 equal Directors, the Committee considered that a xed number of shares tranches of 600,000 options.
The criteria were the same for each of these approach was preferable to xing awards as a percentage of salary.
grants and therefore both tranches had performance periods that ended Under the plan rules the Committee could award up to 3 times salary on 31 December 2006.
The exercise price of the option was adjusted in line or a maximum of 165,000 shares.
Paul Pindar has been awarded the with the movement in the FTSE All Share Index from the date of grant maximum number of shares for the award in 2009. to 25 November 2007.
The adjusted exercise prices were 348p for the 2002 award and 474p for the 2004 award.
This feature ensured that On 20 March 2009, an aggregate of 533,000 shares were awarded to the participants only gained if the share price out-performed the index.
Executive Directors, as detailed on page 79.
As growth in the Companys EPS over the 3 year period to 31 December The vesting of awards made during 2009 will depend on share price 2006 exceeded RPI growth by 17.6%, 100% of the options vested growth and EPS growth targets measured over a 3 year period.
An award representing 1,200,000 shares per participant and became exercisable will not vest if Capitas average share price at the date of vesting is below on 25 November 2007. the average share price at the date of grant.
The last award under the LTISAS was made in November 2004 and vested The proportion of awards that vest will be determined by the in full on 31 December 2006 and no further awards have or will be made following schedule: under this plan.
EPS growth of RPI 4% per annum 20% of the award vests Satisfaction of options EPS growth of RPI 16% per annum 100% of the award vests When satisfying awards made under its share plans and long term incentive plans, the Company uses newly issued, treasury or purchased Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
The Committee may vary the performance conditions if it considers that the original conditions are not appropriate and a fair measure of Dilution performance.
Where the performance conditions are not met, the award All awards are made under plans that incorporate dilution limits as set out will lapse.
There will be no re-testing of performance.
The Committee has in the Guidelines for Share Incentive Schemes published by the Association considered the challenging target this has set both the Executive Directors of British Insurers.
The current estimated dilution from subsisting awards, and other participants of the scheme.
It does feel that the targets are very including executive and all-employee share awards, is approximately 9.1% challenging especially in the current market.
Given this the Remuneration of the Companys share capital as at 31 December 2009.
Committee has decided that awards made in 2010 will have a maximum target of EPS growth of RPI 14% to achieve 100% vesting.
Although there are no non-financial targets for this plan, the annual appraisal process consider non-financial measures and awards consider the prior year performance as a whole.
Capita Share Ownership Plan CSOP The CSOP is open to all employees of the Company under certain eligibility criteria, including Executive Directors.
Under the plan, eligible employees may invest up to 125 per month in the Companys shares and the Company matches these at a ratio of 1 Matching Share for every 10 Participant Shares.
Save as you Earn SAYE The SAYE is open to all employees of the Company, including Executive Directors, under certain eligibility criteria.
Under the SAYE employees can save up to 250 per month for a period of 3 years and purchase shares at the price set at the beginning of the savings period.
The SAYE is due to expire in 2010.
Executive Share Scheme The 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme including both HMRC approved and unapproved elements is a discretionary scheme for senior managers, in which the Executive Directors no longer participate.
Options granted under the 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme become exercisable if the growth in the Companys EPS exceeds growth in RPI by 8% over the 3 year period from the date of grant.
Governance The Capita Group Plc 83 The following information is subject to audit.
Recently the Directors exercised options over these awards and turned them into shares known as restricted stock under the plan rules and these are held beneficially for them in trust.
The amount held for them is shown above.
Directors remuneration 2009 2008 000s 000s Basic salaries 1,279 1,227 Compensation Benets 58 61 Annual bonus 1,344 1,988 Dividend equivalent for DAB 55 Pension contributions to the Groups dened contribution scheme 82 109 Pension contributions to external dened contribution pension schemes 13 63 Fees 233 257 Total 3,064 3,705 The sum disclosed above represents the total value of the performance related bonus payable in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009.
35% will be paid in cash and the remainder will be settled through the issue of Deferred Shares as explained on page 79.
In addition, by way of salary sacrifice, the base salaries of Paddy Doyle and Simon Pilling have been reduced by, 7,200 2008: 33,931 and 20,000 2008: 16,666 respectively and paid into separate dened contribution schemes.
The benets of Gordon Hurst, Simon Pilling, Maggi Bell and Paddy Doyle are in respect of private medical insurance and the provision of a company car allowance.
The benets of Paul Pindar, the highest paid Director, are in respect of a company car and private medical insurance.
Paul Pindar was released by the Company to serve as a Non-Executive Director of Debenhams Plc with effect from 9 May 2006.
He receives 57,077 per annum in fees from Debenhams Plc which he retains.
Share plan awards Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DAB Details regarding the DAB can be found on page 81.
The value of the Deferred Shares is included in the Performance Related Bonus gure in the first table above.
Capita Share Ownership Plan Paddy Doyle and Gordon Hurst participated in the Capita Share Ownership Plan during 2009.
As a result of their participation, they were awarded 22 and 3 Matching Shares respectively during the period to 31 December 2009.
The Participant Shares and their Matching Shares are included in the table of Directors interests in shares on page 83.
Capita Sharesave Scheme The Directors interests in the Capita Sharesave Scheme are listed below: Exercise At Granted Exercised Market price At price 1 January in the in the at exercise 31 December p 2009 year year 2009 Exercisable between 1 Paddy Doyle 733 1,289 1,289 01.11.2010 and 30.04.2011 1 The exercise price quoted above was set at 100% of the market price at the date of grant.
There are no performance criteria to be satisfied under this scheme.
1997 Executive Share Option Scheme The Directors interests in the 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme are listed below: Exercise At Granted Exercised Market price At price 1 January in the in the at exercise 31 December p 2009 year year p 2009 Maggi Bell 436 79,467 75,000 702.4 4,467 Long Term Indexed Share Appreciation Scheme The Executive Directors interests in the LTISAS are listed below: Price Final at date exercise At Exercised Market price At Date of of grant price 1 January in the at exercise 31 December award p p 2009 year 2009 Exercisable between Paul Pindar 25.11.2004 351 474 600,000 600,000 25.11.2007 to 25.11.2012 The grant price was calculated based on the average of the closing share price over the month prior to the date of grant.
The exercise price of the options increased in line with the FTSE All Share Index, measured from the date of grant to 25 November 2007.
The final exercise prices are set out above.
Details of the performance conditions attached to awards made under the LTISAS can be found on page 82.
The market value of an ordinary share of the Company at 31 December 2009 was 751p, and the high and low values for the year were 781.5p and 617.5p respectively.
Pensions Pension contributions are made into the Groups dened contribution scheme.
The Company makes contributions at a rate of 5% of basic salary.
Simon Pilling and Paddy Doyle made additional contributions, by way of salary sacrifice in the year, to a separate executive dened contribution scheme.
Changes in Directors interests Between the end of the financial year and 19 February 2010, Paddy Doyle and Gordon Hurst acquired 38 shares under the Capita Share Ownership Plan, increasing their beneficial interest in ordinary shares of the Company to 27,115 and 10,255 respectively.
The remuneration report has been approved by the Board and has been signed on behalf of the Board by: Martin Bolland Martina King Non-Executive Chairman Chairperson of the Remuneration Committee 24 February 2010 24 February 2010 The Directors report from pages 1 to 84 was approved by the Board and has been signed on behalf of the Board by: Gordon Hurst Company Secretary 24 February 2010
