Report on Directors Remuneration The Report on Directors Remuneration sets out the role of the Professional advice Remuneration Committee, the Companys general remuneration During 2009 and subsequently the Remuneration Committee policies and how they are applied to directors and details of received advice from  LLP PwC executive directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2009. compensation consultants on all aspects of the remuneration of The report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Executive Directors, the risk pro le of the Company and the the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts implications of the risk pro le for the Companys remuneration and Reports Regulations 2008, the Listing Rules and the Combined policies.
PwC were appointed by the Remuneration Committee.
Code, and will be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM on During 2009 and subsequently, PwC have also provided outsourced 13 May 2010. internal audit services, tax advice, and corporate finance due diligence services in connection with the acquisition of Conveno.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditors to report to the Companys members on certain parts of the Report on Directors Future developments Remuneration and to state whether in their opinion those parts The Remuneration Committee keeps up to date with the latest of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with regulatory and market developments, guidelines and codes the Act.
All sections of this report, except for Details of directors of practice published by various bodies, and research published remuneration, are unaudited.
In this report, we use the following terminology: During 2009 there has been a considerable amount of regulation and guidance issued on executive remuneration, with particular Executive Director means any executive member of the Board: emphasis on the financial services sector, some of which is still subject to consultation.
The Remuneration Committee anticipates Senior Management means those members of the Companys that revised guidance will be published during 2010 and will discuss Executive Committee who are not Executive Directors and the with its main institutional shareholders any changes in the first level of management below that level: and Companys remuneration policies resulting from this process.
Broker means front of ce revenue generators.
Remuneration policies In common with other businesses operating in the sectors in which Remuneration committee the Company trades, the Companys remuneration policies are The members of the Remuneration Committee and its in some respects distinct from the normal practices of UK listed responsibilities are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on companies.
The majority of the Companys competitors are not page 28, the relevant sections of which are incorporated into this UK listed companies.
It is considered to be in the best interests Report on Directors Remuneration by reference.
The Remuneration of the Company and the shareholders to pay remuneration in line Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for: with market practice in the sectors in which the Company operates.
developing the Companys remuneration policies: The Companys remuneration policies are designed to attract, motivate and retain staff with the necessary skills and experience reviewing the relationship between incentives and risk: to achieve high levels of pro t and returns for shareholders.
The application of this policy takes account of general practices determining the remuneration of Executive Directors and the in the parts of the financial services sector in which the Company Chairman: trades, which is characterised by high levels of remuneration dependent upon the achievement of correspondingly high levels reviewing and approving the remuneration of Senior of performance, in contrast to many other sectors.
Management after consultation with the Chief Executive: The Remuneration Committee has carefully considered the oversight of the remuneration policies applicable to Brokers: and relationship between incentives and risk.
Details of the Companys key risks and risk management are set out in the Business Review.
approving all share and long term incentive schemes and their The majority of transactions are brokered on a Name Give-Up application.
basis where the business acts as agent in arranging the trade.
Commissions earned on these activities are received monthly The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys in cash.
The business does not take any trading risk and does not website or, on request, from the Company Secretary.
The business only holds financial instruments for identi ed buyers and sellers in matching trades The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attends Annual which are settled within one to three days.
The business does not General Meetings of the Company and is available to answer retain any contingent risks.
The business does not have valuation questions raised by shareholders.
issues in measuring its pro ts.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the general remuneration policies described above, and the speci c remuneration policies below, re ect the low risk pro le of the Company.
30 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2009 Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Companys general remuneration policies for Executive 7.
The Company provides fide ned contribution pension Directors and Senior Management include the following: arrangements.
It also provides employees with medical insurance but otherwise seeks to avoid the provision of bene ts 1.
Remuneration includes high levels of variable rewards that are in kind.
The main component of these variable rewards is annual bonuses which are used to motivate Remuneration for Brokers is directly based on financial and retain staff and to achieve superior returns for shareholders.
performance, generally at a desk team level, and is calculated in accordance with formulae set out in xed term contracts of 2.
Salaries are paid monthly and are normally set at a level to employment.
Sign-on bonuses are only paid upfront when a claw provide a reasonable level of xed remuneration which would back provision is included in the contract of employment.
Typically, be appropriate in circumstances where bonuses are not paid Brokers receive a xed salary paid regularly throughout the year, due to circumstances of weak performance.
Salaries are with a signi cant proportion of variable remuneration dependent reviewed annually.
These reviews give rise to salary increases on revenue, normally after related direct costs, which is paid after only if information on comparable sector practice indicates the revenue has been fully received in cash.
Once cash has been that salary levels are out of line with the market.
received, revenue is not subject to any remaining contingency.
Performance bonuses are discretionary and not contractual, Application of policies to Executive Directors with the level of annual bonus determined on the basis of The Company currently has two Executive Directors who are judgements on performance relative to the trading conditions Terry Smith, Chief Executive and Paul Mainwaring, Finance Director.
and other circumstances and the achievement of objectives.
The above policies are applied to the Executive Directors as follows.
The basis for determining the performance bonuses of Executive Directors is set out separately below.
Salaries Salaries are reviewed and determined by the Remuneration 4.
In determining individual performance bonuses, the primary Committee.
In accordance with the Companys policies, salaries objective is to motivate and retain key staff.
While bonuses are not routinely increased annually.
In determining salaries the will re ect, to a degree, short-term financial outcomes against Remuneration Committee takes into account salary levels for budget, other factors are taken into account.
Consequently, equivalent positions in comparable sector businesses, most of it is possible that, in some market circumstances, individual which are not UK listed companies.
superior performance may not be re ected in the achievement of budgets but may merit the payment of signi cant bonuses.
Discretionary performance bonuses This approach is balanced by the Companys principle that Executive Directors bonuses are discretionary and no Director has the cost of staff should be sensitive to returns to shareholders.
It is the Companys policy not to pay performance bonuses in the event of unsatisfactory personal performance.
In determining the annual performance bonus, the Remuneration Committee establishes a bonus pool for the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee does not believe that the formal The pool is then allocated between Executive Directors taking into capping of performance bonuses is consistent with the delivery consideration their personal contribution and internal relativities.
of enhanced returns to shareholders.
The policy of minimising It is the policy of the Remuneration Committee not to pay bonuses xed remuneration as a proportion of overall remuneration to a Director if it is not satis ed with personal performance.
If, means that the Company cannot apply percentages or multiples following this process, not all of the bonus pool has been allocated, of salary to the determination of bonuses.
Given the Companys the unallocated proportion is retained by the Company.
risk pro le described above it is not considered necessary to attach claw back or deferral conditions to the annual bonuses 2009 bonus paid to management.
As previously, the bonus pool for 2009 for Executive Directors was determined using the following formula: 6.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards have been structured to reward the achievement of medium term operational objectives, 1.
Ten per cent of the surplus return on capital employed ROCE financial performance and growth in shareholder value.
The achieved in the year after deducting the Companys weighted Remuneration Committee recognises the importance of aligning average cost of capital: the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders and equity incentive awards will continue to form part of their 2.
One per cent of the value of the absolute total shareholder remuneration packages.
The Remuneration Committee has return TSR in the year, after deducting an average risk free concluded that the provision of substantial long term equity capital return to shareholders: and based incentives to Senior Management is not consistent with general market practice in the Companys key competitor 3.
One per cent of the value of the relative total return to organisations and consequently no further awards will be made shareholders benchmarked against the average of returns to Senior Management under the LTIP for the foreseeable future.
achieved by the UK FTSE 250 index and the UK FTSE General Financials index in the year.
Tullett Prebon plc 31 Annual Report 2009 Report on Directors Remuneration continued For this purpose shareholder returns do not include exceptional In exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee returns of capital as opposed to normal dividends.
may decrease or increase the amounts resulting from the formula to take account of, for example, the impact of strategic For 2009 the Remuneration Committee concluded that it should investments that depress short-term results or exceptional not take account of TSR performance because of the low share personal performance compared with market circumstances, if it price at the start of the year, which had resulted from the effect concludes that doing so would be in the interests of shareholders.
of the 2008 financial crisis on the share prices of companies in the The Remuneration Committee will record and explain any financial services sector.
It also determined that the bonus pool such variation in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
arising from the surplus returns exceeded comparables, particularly after a number of years of increasing pro tability and reductions in In addition, the Remuneration Committee may change the formula capital employed.
Accordingly the bonuses awarded to Executive in the future to take account of factors such as changes in the Directors are substantially below the amounts arising from the number of Executive Directors participating in the bonus pool.
The formula set out above.
Remuneration Committee will record and explain any such change in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
Consistent with the approach taken for the 2008 performance bonuses, one-half of the 2009 bonuses for the Executive Directors Long term and share incentive schemes will be deferred into the Companys shares.
The participation of Executive Directors in long term and share incentive schemes is determined by the Remuneration Committee The investment in the Companys shares will be matched by a LTIP which agrees each year performance conditions to attach to the grant in 2010 with a one-to-one value match, although this is also awards that are consistent with the Companys strategic objectives limited by the rules of the LTIP on the scale of grants.
Assessment of the achievement of non-market of bonus deferral re ects arrangements under the LTIP and is not based performance targets is calculated by the Finance Director an expression of the Companys risk pro le.
and reviewed by the Auditors.
Assessment of market-based performance conditions is undertaken by the Remuneration Bonus for 2010 and later years Committees independent remuneration consultant.
The Remuneration Committee considers that incentives for Executive Directors should be clearly aligned with the short-term The LTIP was approved by shareholders in 2006.
The initial financial outcome, with reward for longer term performance grants were made in 2008 at 200% of annual salary plus bonus.
achieved through equity based incentives, and that the bonus Subsequent grants are limited to 300% of annual salary.
Details formula should be simpli ed.
It has, therefore, resolved that, for of awards made are set out below.
2010, annual incentives for Executive Directors should be paid from a pool that is generated from annual pro ts.
Total remuneration levels for Executive Directors Comparable levels of remuneration for Executive Directors in In determining the annual performance bonus for 2010 and similar companies have been reviewed, with the aid of professional subsequent years, the Remuneration Committee will establish advice.
The review con rmed that Tullett Prebons approach a bonus pool for all Executive Directors using the formula of is in line with normal practices adopted in the IDB sector.
4.0% 4.5% of the surplus of operating pro t over a threshold calculated as the weighted average cost of capital multiplied by The relative importance of the xed and variable elements capital employed.
The weighted average cost of capital is currently of remuneration for the Executive Directors has been carefully approximately 11.5%.
considered by the Remuneration Committee.
Apart from xed salaries, all other elements of remuneration are related to The effect of the change in the formula is that the bonus pool will performance.
be approximately consistent with the proportion of operating pro t paid in bonuses to the Executive Directors over the last two years.
Long term share incentive plans Shareholder approval was granted in November 2006 for the The determination of the total bonus pool within the range will discretionary long term incentive plan, the Tullett Prebon Long take account of additional factors, such as the achievement of the Term Incentive Plan.
The principal aim of the Tullett Prebon LTIP Companys and individuals objectives and corporate performance is to improve operating performance.
The first awards under this relative to market circumstances.
The Remuneration Committee plan were made in 2008. will report on its assessment of the achievement of Company and individual objectives and relative performance in the Report on 2008 awards Directors Remuneration.
For awards made in 2008, minimum vesting of awards will be achieved if annual revenue growth is 5% per annum for the three years to 31 December 2010 with maximum vesting of awards if annual revenue growth is 10% per annum over the same period, subject in both cases to achieving in 2010 operating margins of 17.5% and a return on capital employed of not less than 25% on operating assets and goodwill, including on future acquisitions.
32 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2009 Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Remuneration Committee selected these measures as they 2009 awards were consistent with business objectives at that time.
For awards made in 2009, minimum vesting of 25% of the awards will be achieved if the ranking percentile of the Companys TSR over The awards made in 2008 are in the form of share options, the three years to 31 December 2011 relative to the TSR over that exercisable for 1 in total.
period of all other companies comprising the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts at 1 January 2009 is 50th, with maximum The Remuneration Committee attached an investment condition to vesting of 100% if the ranking percentile is 25th or better, subject LTIP awards made in 2008 under which holders of those awards are in both cases to achieving in 2011 a ROCE of not less than 25% on required to use one-half of their annual bonuses in respect of 2008 operating assets and goodwill, including on future acquisitions.
and 2009 to purchase shares in the Company in order to retain their The Remuneration Committee considers that relative TSR meets right to the award.
Shares acquired under the investment condition investors expectations of outperformance against a peer group are required to be held until the first date on which the awards for LTIP vesting and the ROCE measure provides a financial become exercisable 31 March 2011. performance hurdle.
The investment condition with regard to the 2008 annual bonus The awards made in 2009 are in the form of share options, was met by the Executive Directors bonus deferrals into Company exercisable for 1 in total.
The investment condition with regard to the 2009 annual bonus will be met by the Executive Directors bonus deferrals which are subject to sale restrictions for two years.
The salary of the Finance Director, Paul Mainwaring, is 275,000 and has not changed since his appointment in 2006.
Annual bonuses The Remuneration Committee has determined the following awards in respect of 2009 2008 awards in brackets : Terry Smith: 2.0m 2008: 2.0m in cash: and 2.0m 2008: 2.0m to be awarded on condition that it is invested in the Companys shares, to be held for a minimum of two years.
Paul Mainwaring: 0.5m 2008: 0.475m in cash: and 0.5m 2008: 0.475m to be awarded on condition that it is invested in the Companys shares, to be held for a minimum of two years.
The total bonus payout for 2009 and 2008 is substantially less than the pool arising from the quantitative formula before other factors were taken into account.
Tullett Prebon plc 33 Annual Report 2009 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Long term incentives The outstanding share options granted to each person who served as a director of the Company at any time in the financial year are as follows: Shares Shares under Lapsed under option at Granted Exercised unexercised option at Date from Date of Date of 1 Jan during during during the 31 Dec Exercise which first expiry of Director grant 2009 the year the year year 2009 price excercisable option Terry Smith 18 March 1,860,465 1,860,465 1 in 18 March 18 March 2008 total 2011 2018 Terry Smith 22 June 671,441 671,441 1 in 22 June 22 June 2009 total 2012 2019 Paul Mainwaring 18 March 360,465 360,465 1 in 18 March 18 March 2008 total 2011 2018 Paul Mainwaring 22 June 284,071 284,071 1 in 22 June 22 June 2009 total 2012 2019 The lowest share price of Tullett Prebon plc ordinary shares during the year to 31 December 2009 was 113.0p and the highest price was 428.0p.
Bene ts No pension contributions were made in respect of Terry Smith during 2009 2008: nil.
Paul Mainwaring received pension contributions during 2009 of 6,336 2008: 6,336.
These contributions were made to the Tullett Prebon Group Personal Pension Plan.
Terry Smith and Paul Mainwaring received private medical cover at a cost of 1,792 and 733 respectively during 2009.
Outside directorships At the time of the demerger of Collins Stewart plc it was decided that it would be in the best interests of the then shareholders if Terry Smith undertook the role of Chairman of that company.
In that capacity, Terry Smith receives a salary of 200,000 per annum and is entitled to a bonus for the year ended 31 December 2009 from Collins Stewart plc.
Paul Mainwaring has no outside directorships.
Non-executive Directors The fees paid to the non-executive directors are determined by the Board and the fees paid to the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
These are benchmarked against published information on the fees paid to the non-executive directors of UK listed companies of comparable size and activities.
During 2009 the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees and the Senior Independent Non-executive Director were paid additional fees to re ect their increased time commitment and responsibilities.
It was determined that with effect from 1 December 2009 all non-executive directors would receive fees of 50,000 per annum, irrespective of committee responsibilities.
The Chairmans fee was unchanged.
Non-executive directors and the Chairman are not eligible to participate in short or long term incentive plans or to receive any pension from the Company.
Directors contracts The Companys current policy is that Executive Directors serve under contracts terminable on 12 months notice and are subject to mitigation and restrictive covenants.
It is the Remuneration Committees policy that termination payments will not exceed 100% of base salary plus annual bonus.
The contracts provide for retirement at the age of 65 in all cases.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out below: Director Date of contract Terry Smith 29 January 2007 Paul Mainwaring 25 September 2006 Non-executive directors serve under letters of appointment subject to 12 months notice, as set out below: Director Date of letter of appointment Keith Hamill 22 September 2000 David Clark 10 March 2003 Michael Fallon 24 August 2004 Richard Kilsby 3 June 2005 Rupert Robson 4 January 2007 34 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2009 Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Total shareholder returns A graph depicting the Companys total shareholder return in comparison to other companies in the FTSE Mid 250 index and the FTSE General Financials index in the five years to 31 December 2009 is shown below: 250 Collins Stewart Tullett plc Tullett Prebon plc FTSE250 FTSE350 General Financials 210 170 130 90 50 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 The Board believes that the above indices are most relevant as they comprise either businesses of similar size or engaged in the financial services industry.
On behalf of the Board Rupert Robson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 8 March 2010 Tullett Prebon plc 35 Annual Report 2009
