BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS FINANCIAL REVIEW Free cash ow Balance sheet 2009 2008 2007 m m m Summarised balance sheet 2009 2008 Net cash inow from m m operating activities 4,706 5,486 5,210 Non current assets Net purchase of property, Intangible assets 3,788 3,355 plant equipment and Property, plant and equipment 15,405 15,307 software 3,038 3,253 3,209 Retirement benefit asset 2,887 Net purchase of non current Trade and other receivables 322 854 financial assets 1 3 Other non current assets 3,746 426 Dividends from associates and joint ventures 6 2 6 23,261 22,829 Interest received 19 111 147 Current assets Interest paid 956 842 797 Trade and other receivables 4,185 4,449 Free cash ow 737 1,503 1,354 Cash and cash equivalents 1,300 1,435 Other current assets 528 639 The components of free cash ow, which is a non-GAAP measure 6,013 6,523 and a key performance indicator, are presented in the table above Current liabilities and reconciled to net cash inow from operating activities, the Loans and other borrowings 1,542 1,524 most directly comparable IFRS measure.
For further discussion of Trade and other payables 7,215 7,591 the denition of free cash ow, refer to pages 47 and 48.
Other current liabilities 595 589 The decrease in free cash ow in 2009 of 766m is largely due to lower EBITDA, higher net income tax paid in the year and higher 9,352 9,704 net interest payments, partially offset by lower cash payments in Total assets less current liabilities 19,922 19,648 respect of capital expenditure.
Non current liabilities The increase in free cash ow in 2008 of 149m is largely due to Loans and other borrowings 12,365 9,818 the income tax repayment from HMRC of 521m 2007: 376m, a Deferred tax liabilities 1,728 2,513 reduction in income taxes paid of 189m, lower pension deficiency Retirement benefit obligations 3,973 108 payments of 320m 2007: 520m, together with an Other non current liabilities 1,687 1,777 improvement in working capital movements.
These improvements were partially offset by payments of 297m associated with our 19,753 14,216 transformation activities and higher cash payments in respect of Equity capital expenditure and net interest paid.
Ordinary shares and share premium 470 482 Retained loss earnings 328 4,927 142 5,409 Minority interest 27 23 Total equity 169 5,432 19,922 19,648 Net assets at 31 March 2009 were 169m compared with 5,432m at 31 March 2008, with the reduction of 5,263m mainly due to the loss for the year of 81m, actuarial losses of 7,037m, dividend payments of 1,222m, partly offset by the tax credit relating to items recorded directly in equity of 1,847m, gains on cash ow hedges of 570m and foreign exchange movements on the translation of overseas operations of 692m.
BTs non current assets totalled 23,261m at 31 March 2009, of which 15,405m were property, plant and equipment, principally forming the UK xed network.
At 31 March 2008, non current assets were 22,829m and property, plant and equipment were 15,307m.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 41 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS FINANCIAL REVIEW We believe it is appropriate to show the sub-total Total assets less fair value of the combined net assets at the date of acquisition was current liabilities of 19,922m at 31 March 2009 2008: 28m, giving rise to goodwill of 47m.
19,648m in the group balance sheet because it provides useful The total consideration for acquisitions in 2008 was 477m.
financial information being an indication of the level of capital The acquisition of Comsat completed in June 2007 for a total employed at the balance sheet date, namely total equity and non consideration of 130m.
Net of deferred consideration and cash current liabilities.
acquired, the net cash outow was 122m.
The fair value of BT Group plc, the parent company, whose financial statements Comsats net assets at the date of acquisition was 57m, giving rise are prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, had profit and loss to goodwill of 73m.
Other acquisitions made by BT Global Services reserves net of the treasury reserve of 9,761m at 31 March in 2008, for a total consideration of 276m, include Frontline, 2009, compared with 10,513m at 31 March 2008.
Technologies Corporation Limited, i2i Enterprise Private Limited and Net 2S SA a company which changed its name to BT Services SA on Capital expenditure 1 April 2009.
Net of deferred consideration and cash acquired, the Capital expenditure is a measure of our expenditure on property, net cash outow in respect of these acquisitions was 187m.
The fair plant and equipment and software.
It excludes the movement on value of the companies net assets at the various dates of acquisition capital accruals and any assets acquired through new acquisitions in was 82m, resulting in goodwill of 194m.
Capital expenditure totalled 3,088m in 2009 compared Acquisitions made by BT Retail in 2008, for a total consideration with 3,339m and 3,247m in 2008 and 2007, respectively.
The of 71m, include Lynx Technology, Basilica and Brightview.
Net of reduction in expenditure in 2009 reects a reduction in deferred consideration and cash acquired, the net cash outow was expenditure on exchange equipment and reduced provisioning 60m.
The provisional fair value of the companies net assets at the volumes in Openreach due to a lower level of house moves and various dates of acquisition was 24m, giving rise to goodwill of reduced LLU volumes from other CPs.
This has been partly offset by 47m.
The increased expenditure in 2008 related to investment in the creation of re-useable capabilities for Return on capital employed major contracts and up front capital expenditure associated with The adjusted return on the average capital employed was 15.1% contract wins at the end of the year.
In 2008 and 2007 we made an adjusted return of 17.7% than 2007 and included equipment deployment, customer site and 17.6%, respectively.
On a reported basis, the return on the readiness as well as customer migration.
21CN expenditure is average capital employed was 2.9% for 2009 2008: 14.4%, mainly reected in other network equipment.
expenditure on 21CN has been partially offset by reduced spend on legacy equipment, including transmission and exchange Pensions equipment.
Capital expenditure is expected to reduce to around Detailed pensions disclosures are provided in note 29 to the 2.7bn in 2010. consolidated financial statements.
At 31 March 2009, the IAS 19 Of the capital expenditure, 316m arose outside of the UK in accounting deficit was 2.9bn, net of tax, compared with a surplus 2009, unchanged from the 316m in 2008.
Contracts placed for of 2.0bn at 31 March 2008.
The deterioration in asset values from ongoing capital expenditure totalled 451m at 31 March 2009.
37.4bn at 31 March 2008 to 29.3bn at 31 March 2009 principally reects the decline in global financial markets during the Acquisitions year.
During the year the investment management fide-risking The total consideration for acquisitions in 2009, was 186m.
activities have continued and this has further reduced the Goodwill arising on acquisitions made in 2009 was 131m.
proportion of funds invested in equities from 45% to 31%.
The acquisition of Stemmer GmbH and SND GmbH was During the year we conducted a review of our UK pension completed by BT Global Services in July 2008 for a total arrangements, including extensive consultation with the trade unions consideration of 13m.
Net of cash acquired, the net cash outow and employees.
The aim of the review was to ensure the schemes was 12m.
The provisional fair value of net assets at the date of remain exible, fair and sustainable for the long-term.
Changes to acquisition was 3m, giving rise to goodwill of 10m.
No other the future benefit accruals under the BTPS were effective from 1 April acquisitions were made by BT Global Services in the year.
2009 and benets built up before this date are protected and remain BT Retail made two acquisitions in the year, Wire One Holdings linked to final pensionable salary.
The changes include increasing the Inc and Undus Ltd, for total consideration of 98m.
Net of cash normal retirement age to 65, changing to a career average revalued acquired, the net cash outow in respect of these acquisitions was earnings basis, changes to member contributions and ceasing to 95m.
The fair value of net assets acquired was 24m, giving rise contract out of the State Second Pension.
We expect these changes to goodwill of 74m.
will reduce regular cash contributions, net of increased National BT Design made two acquisitions in the year, Ribbit Corporation Insurance Contributions, by about 100m per annum.
and Moorhouse Consulting Ltd, for total consideration of 75m.
The number of retired members and other current beneciaries in Net of deferred consideration and cash acquired, the net cash the BTPS has been increasing in recent years.
Consequently, our outow in respect of these acquisitions was 60m.
The provisional future pension costs and contributions will depend on the 42 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS FINANCIAL REVIEW investment returns of the pension fund and life expectancy of The Board reviews the groups dividend policy and funding members and could uctuate in the medium-term.
The Board is committed to The BTPS was closed to new entrants on 31 March 2001 and delivering attractive returns for shareholders and believes that the people joining BT after that date can participate in a dened operational improvements in the business will generate sufficient contribution pension arrangement which provides benets based cash ow to allow the dividend to grow at the same time as on the employees and the employing companys contributions.
investing in the business, reducing debt and supporting the BT and the Trustee of the BTPS have agreed that deficit pension scheme.
contributions of 525m per annum will be made in cash or in During 2008, the group commenced a 2.5bn share buy back specie over the next three years.
This agreement has been programme, which was expected to be completed by 31 March approved by the Pensions Regulator.
However, in July 2008, the Board suspended this BT and the Trustee have also reached an advanced stage in the programme as a result of the groups strategic investment in bre completion of the triennial funding valuation, being prepared by the deployment.
During 2009, 143m shares for cash consideration of schemes independent actuary, as at 31 December 2008.
During 2008 and 2007, 540m and parties are at an advanced stage compared to other scheme valuations 148m shares were repurchased for cash consideration of 1,498m and given the uncertain market conditions, the Pensions Regulator has and 400m, respectively.
indicated it wishes to discuss with the Trustee and BT the underlying The general policy is to raise and invest funds centrally to meet assumptions and basis of the valuation.
The Pensions Regulator has anticipated requirements using a combination of capital market requested that the valuation and assumptions are not nalised or bond issuance, commercial paper borrowing backed up by disclosed in advance of the completion of those discussions.
BT, the committed borrowing facilities and investments.
These financial Trustee and the Pensions Regulator are keen to complete this as soon instruments vary in their maturity in order to meet short, medium as practicable.
In June 2008, 795m of long-term The previous valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2005 funds were raised and in March 2009 the group renewed 800m of which showed the fund was in deficit by 3.4bn.
The deficit payments its 364 day facility with a one-year term out.
A further 100m was of 280m per annum agreed in respect of the previous valuation have agreed after the balance sheet date.
now been replaced by the agreement to pay 525m per annum over At 31 March 2009 the group had financial assets of 7.3bn the next three years.
consisting of current and non current investments, derivative The group is paying a regular contribution rate of 19.5% of financial assets, trade and other receivables, cash and cash pensionable pay, of which 6% to 7% is payable by employees.
Credit exposures are continually reviewed and proactive steps have been taken to ensure that the impact of the Capital management current adverse market conditions on these financial assets is The primary objective of the groups capital management policy is minimised.
In particular, line of business management have been to target a solid investment grade credit rating whilst continuing to actively reviewing exposures arising from trading balances and, in invest for the future and, with an efficient balance sheet, further managing investments and derivative financial instruments, the enhance the return to shareholders.
In order to meet this objective, centralised treasury operation has continued to monitor the credit the group may issue new shares, repurchase shares, adjust the quality across treasury counterparties and is actively managing amount of dividends paid to shareholders, or issue or repay debt.
The group manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to At 31 March 2009, the groups credit rating was BBB with stable it in the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk outlook with Standard and Poors and Baa2 with negative outlook characteristics of the group.
The Board regularly reviews the capital with Moodys 2008: BBB Baa1, both with stable outlook.
No changes were made to these objectives, policies and the balance sheet date, Fitch changed the groups credit rating to processes during 2009 and 2008.
BBB with a stable outlook 2008: BBB with a stable outlook.
The groups capital structure consists of net debt, committed facilities and similar arrangements and shareholders equity Capital resources excluding the cash flow reserve.
The following analysis The Business review and Other Matters sections on pages 8 to 31 summarises the components which are managed as capital: includes information on the group structure, the performance of each of the lines of business, the impact of regulation and 2009 2008 competition, principal risks and uncertainties and the groups m m outlook.
This Financial review section on pages 32 to 48 includes Total parent shareholders deficit equity information on our financial position, cash ows, liquidity position, excluding cash ow reserve 421 5,252 borrowing position and the groups objectives, policies and Net debt see note 10 10,361 9,460 processes for capital management.
Notes 9, 10, 13, 16, 17 and 33 Undrawn committed facilities of the Consolidated Financial Statements include information on see note 33 2,300 2,335 the groups investments, derivatives, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, financial risk management objectives, hedging policies 12,240 17,047 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 43 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS FINANCIAL REVIEW and exposures to credit, liquidity and market risks.
Tax strategy During the period under review the groups net debt increased to Our strategy is to comply with relevant regulations whilst 10.4bn at 31 March 2009 compared with 9.5bn at 31 March minimising the tax burden for BT and our customers.
We seek to 2008 and 7.9bn at 31 March 2007 based on the denition of net achieve this through engagement with our stakeholders including debt as set out in note 10.
HMRC and other tax authorities, partners and customers.
The BT The following table sets out the groups contractual obligations Board regularly reviews the groups tax strategy.
and commitments as they fall due for payment, as at 31 March The Board considers that it has a responsibility to minimise the 2009. tax burden for the group and its customers.
In this respect the Board considers it is entirely proper that the group conducts an Payments due by period appropriate level of responsible tax planning in managing its tax Less Between Between More than 1 1 and 3 3 and 5 than 5 affairs, being consistent with its obligations to protect the assets of Contractual obligations Total year years years years and commitments m m m m m the company for the benefit of our shareholders.
This planning is carried out within Board dened parameters.
a Loans and other borrowings 13,573 1,528 3,066 1,819 7,160 We operate in over 170 countries and with this comes additional Finance lease obligations 332 14 42 24 252 complexity in the taxation arena.
However the majority of tax issues Operating lease obligations 8,004 484 885 780 5,855 arise in the UK with a small number of issues arising in our overseas Pension deficiency obligations 2,695 525 1,050 560 560 jurisdictions.
In terms of the groups UK corporation tax position, all Capital commitments 451 380 62 6 3 years up to and including 2005 are fully agreed.
For 2006 and Total 25,055 2,931 5,105 3,189 13,830 2007, there are a number of open issues which we are actively a discussing with HMRC with a view to resolving.
The UK corporation Excludes fair value adjustments for hedged risks.
tax returns for 2008 were all led prior to the statutory deadline of At 31 March 2009, the group had cash, cash equivalents and 31 March 2009. current asset investments of 1,463m.
The group also had unused We have an open, honest and positive working relationship with committed borrowing facilities, amounting to 2,300m.
We are committed to prompt disclosure and transparency in 31 March 2009, 1,190m of debt principal at hedged rates fell all tax matters with HMRC.
We recognise that there will be areas of due for repayment in the 2010 financial year.
These resources will differing legal interpretations between ourselves and tax allow the group to settle its obligations as they fall due.
The group authorities and where this occurs we will engage in proactive has no significant debt maturities until December 2010. discussion to bring matters to as rapid a conclusion as possible.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has Our positive working relationship with HMRC was demonstrated adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the in 2007 when we worked intensively with HMRC to accelerate the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going agreement of all open tax matters up to and including 2005.
This concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
There has been project allowed us to build and develop our working relationship no significant change in the financial or trading position of the with HMRC.
We have a policy to lobby the government directly on tax matters that are likely to impact us and in particular respond to consultation Off-balance sheet arrangements documents where the impact could be substantial.
We also lobby As disclosed in the financial statements, there are no off-balance the government indirectly through the CBI, various working groups sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a and committees and leading professional advisors.
current or future material effect on the groups financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of Tax accounting operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources, with the exception of the following: At each financial year end an estimate of the tax charge is Operating leases note 27 calculated for the group and the level of provisioning across the Capital commitments and guarantees note 27 group is reviewed in detail.
As it can take a number of years to obtain closure in respect of some items contained within the corporation tax returns it is necessary for us to reect the risk that Taxation final tax settlements will be at amounts in excess of our submitted corporation tax computations.
The level of provisioning involves a Total tax contribution high degree of judgement.
BT is a significant contributor to the UK Exchequer, collecting and In 2007 and 2008, the cash tax paid is lower than the income paying taxes of over 3bn in a typical year.
In 2009 we collected statement charges.
This is partly due to the phasing of UK and paid 1,239m of VAT, 1,178m of PAYE and National corporation tax instalments, the level of provisioning for risks, Insurance, 210m of UK corporation tax and 236m of UK business taxation of specic items, the impact of deferred tax and the impact and UK network rates.
of overseas losses or profits which are relieved or taxed at different 44 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS FINANCIAL REVIEW tax rates from the UK.
In 2009, we have paid cash tax in excess of used to finance its operations and have been predominantly our income statement charge.
We expect to obtain a refund of the swapped into Sterling using cross currency swaps.
The group also cash tax paid in relation to the 2009 liability in the near future.
enters into forward currency contracts to hedge foreign currency It is expected that the cash tax paid will increase in the medium investments, interest expense, capital purchases and purchase and term, despite the introduction of enhanced capital allowances in the sale commitments on a selective basis.
The commitments hedged current financial year.
are principally US dollar and Euro denominated.
As a result, the The effective corporation tax rate on profits before specic items groups exposure to foreign currency arises mainly on its non UK is expected to increase from 4.2 %, the rate applicable to 2009. subsidiary investments and on residual currency trading ows.
The 2009 rate reects the tax credit arising on the BT Global After hedging, with all other factors remaining constant and Services contract and financial review charges of 1.6bn see page based on the composition of assets and liabilities at the balance 10 recorded in the year.
However, we believe that the future years sheet date, the groups exposure to foreign exchange volatility in tax effective rate will remain below the statutory rate of 28%.
the income statement from a 10% strengthening in Sterling against other currencies would result in a credit of approximately 20m in 2009.
Financial risk management Interest rate risk management The group issues or holds financial instruments mainly to finance its The group has interest bearing financial assets and financial operations: to finance corporate transactions such as dividends, liabilities which may expose the group to either cash ow or fair share buy backs and acquisitions: for the temporary investment of value volatility.
The groups policy, as prescribed by the Board, is to short-term funds: and to manage the currency and interest rate ensure that at least 70% of net debt is at xed rates.
risks arising from its operations and from sources of finance.
In The majority of the groups long-term borrowings have been, addition, various financial instruments, for example trade and are, subject to Sterling xed interest rates after applying the receivables and trade payables, arise directly from the groups impact of hedging instruments.
The group has entered into interest operations.
rate swap agreements with commercial banks and other institutions The group has a centralised treasury operation whose primary to vary the amounts and period for which interest rates are xed.
role is to manage liquidity, funding, investments and counterparty The long-term debt instruments which the group issued in credit risk arising with financial institutions.
The centralised treasury December 2000 and February 2001 both contained covenants operation also manages the groups market risk exposures, providing that if the BT Group credit rating were downgraded including risks arising from volatility in currency and interest rates.
below A3 in the case of Moodys or below A minus in the case of The centralised treasury operation is not a profit centre and the Standard & Poors S&P, additional interest would accrue from the objective is to manage risk at optimum cost.
next interest coupon period at the rate of 0.25 percentage points The Board sets the policy for the groups centralised treasury for each ratings category adjustment by each ratings agency.
In operation and its activities are subject to a set of controls March 2009, both Moodys and S&P downgraded BTs credit rating commensurate with the magnitude of the borrowings and to Baa2 and BBB, respectively.
Prior to this financial year, S&P investments and group wide exposures under its management.
The downgraded BTs credit rating to BBB in July 2006 and Moodys Board has delegated its authority to operate these policies to a downgraded BTs credit rating to Baa1 in May 2001.
Based on the series of panels that are responsible for the management of key debt of 5.8bn outstanding on these instruments at 31 March treasury risks and operations.
Appointment to and removal from 2009, BTs annual finance expense would increase by the key panels requires approval from two of the Chairman, the approximately 28m if BTs credit rating were to be downgraded by Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director.
one credit rating category by both agencies below a long-term The financial risk management of exposures arising from trading debt rating of Baa2 BBB.
If BTs credit rating with each of Moodys related financial instruments, primarily trade receivables and trade and S&P were to be upgraded by one credit rating category, the payables, is through a series of policies and procedures set at a annual finance expense would be reduced by approximately 28m.
group and line of business level.
Line of business management After the impact of hedging, the groups main exposure to apply these policies and procedures and perform review processes interest rate volatility in the income statement arises from fair value to assess and manage financial risk exposures arising from these movements on derivatives not in hedging relationships and on financial instruments.
variable rate borrowings and investments which are largely Foreign exchange risk management inuenced by Sterling interest rates.
Trade payables, trade A significant proportion of the groups current revenue is invoiced receivables and other financial instruments do not present a in Sterling, and a significant element of its operations and costs material exposure to interest rate volatility.
With all other factors arise within the UK.
The groups overseas operations generally trade remaining constant and based on the composition of net debt at and are funded in their functional currency which limits their 31 March 2009, a 100 basis point increase in Sterling interest rates exposure to foreign exchange volatility.
The groups foreign would decrease the groups annual net finance expense by currency borrowings, which totalled 9.9bn at 31 March 2009, are approximately 5m.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 45 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS FINANCIAL REVIEW Credit risk management The groups credit policy for trading related financial assets is The groups exposure to credit risk arises from financial assets applied and managed by each of the lines of business to ensure transacted by the centralised treasury operation primarily compliance.
The policy requires that the creditworthiness and derivatives, investments, cash and cash equivalents and from its financial strength of customers is assessed at inception and on an trading related receivables.
For treasury related balances, the Board ongoing basis.
Payment terms are set in accordance with industry dened policy restricts exposure to any one counterparty by setting standards.
The group will also enhance credit protection when credit limits based on the credit quality as dened by Moodys and appropriate, taking into consideration the customers exposure to Standard and Poors and by dening the types of financial the group, by applying processes which include netting and instruments which may be transacted.
The minimum credit ratings offsetting, and requesting securities such as deposits, guarantees permitted with counterparties are A3 A for long-term and P1 A1 and letters of credit.
The group has taken proactive steps to for short-term.
The centralised treasury operation continuously minimise the impact of adverse market conditions on trading reviews the limits applied to counterparties and will adjust the limit related financial assets.
The concentration of credit risk for trading according to the nature and credit standing of the counterparty up balances of the group is provided in note 15 which analyses to the maximum allowable limit set by the Board.
Management outstanding balances by line of business and reects the nature of review significant utilisations on a regular basis to determine the customers in each segment.
adjustments required, if any, and actively manage any exposures Liquidity risk management which may arise.
Where multiple transactions are undertaken with a The group ensures its liquidity is maintained by entering into short, single counterparty, or group of related counterparties, the group medium and long-term financial instruments to support may enter into netting arrangements to reduce the groups operational and other funding requirements.
On at least an annual exposure to credit risk.
Currently, the group makes use of standard basis the Board reviews and approves the maximum long-term International Swaps and Derivative Association ISDA funding of the group and on an ongoing basis considers any related documentation.
In addition, where possible, the group will seek a matters.
Short and medium-term requirements are regularly combination of a legal right of set off and net settlement.
The reviewed and managed by the centralised treasury operation within group also seeks collateral or other security where it is considered the parameters set by the Board.
The primary objective of the necessary.
During the 2009 financial year, the centralised treasury groups capital management policy is to target a solid investment operation tightened the credit limits applied when investing with grade credit rating whilst continuing to invest for the future and, counterparties in response to market conditions, continued to with an efficient balance sheet, further enhance the return to monitor their credit quality and actively managed any exposures shareholders.
The groups liquidity and funding management process includes Note 17 discloses the credit concentration and credit quality of projecting cash ows and considering the level of liquid assets in derivative financial assets.
After applying a legal right of set off relation thereto, monitoring balance sheet liquidity and under the groups ISDA documentation, the group had a net maintaining a diverse range of funding sources and back-up exposure to derivative counterparties of 2,282m.
The Board reviews group forecasts, including cash ow was with six counterparties.
The majority of these derivatives are in forecasts, on a quarterly basis.
The centralised treasury operation designated cash ow hedges.
With all other factors remaining reviews cash ows more frequently to assess the short and constant and based on the composition of net derivative financial medium-term requirements.
These assessments ensure the group assets at 31 March 2009, a 100 basis point increase in yield curves responds to possible future cash constraints in a timely manner.
across each of the ratings categories within which these derivative Liquid assets surplus to immediate operating requirements of the financial assets are classied would reduce their carrying values and group are generally invested and managed by the centralised impact equity, pre-tax, as follows: treasury operation.
Operating finance requirements of group Impact of 100 companies are met whenever possible from central resources.
basis point The group has a European Medium Term Note programme and a increase US Shelf registration in place of which 3.9bn and $6.9bn, m respectively, have been utilised.
During the 2009 and 2008 financial years the group issued commercial paper and held cash, Moodys S&P credit rating cash equivalents and current asset investments in order to manage Aa2 AA 18 short-term liquidity requirements.
At 31 March 2009, the group Aa3 AA 21 had an undrawn committed borrowing facility of up to 1,500m.
A1 A 92 The facility is available for the period to January 2013.
The group A2 A 146 had an additional undrawn committed borrowing facility of 900m, A3 A of which 800m was agreed in the 2009 financial year 2008: 277 835m, with a further 100m agreed after the balance sheet date.
This facility is for a term of 364 days from March 2009 with a one-year term out.
46 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS FINANCIAL REVIEW Renancing risk is managed by limiting the amount of borrowing EBITDA that matures within any specic period and having appropriate In addition to measuring financial performance of the lines of strategies in place to manage renancing needs as they arise.
The business based on operating profit, we also measure performance group has no significant debt maturities until December 2010. based on EBITDA.
EBITDA is dened as the group profit or loss before depreciation, amortisation, finance expense and taxation.
Price risk management Since this is a non-GAAP measure, it may not be directly The group has limited exposure to price risk.
comparable to the EBITDA of other companies, as they may define it differently.
EBITDA is a common measure used by investors and Further information on financial instruments is disclosed in analysts to evaluate the operating financial performance of notes 5, 9, 10, 15, 16, 17 and 33 to the Consolidated financial companies, particularly in the telecommunications sector.
We consider EBITDA to be a useful measure of our operating performance because it reects the underlying operating cash Critical accounting policies costs, by eliminating depreciation and amortisation.
EBITDA is not a direct measure of our liquidity, which is shown by our cash ow Our principal accounting policies are set out on pages 79 to 87 of statement, and it needs to be considered in the context of our the consolidated financial statements and conform with IFRS.
policies, and applicable estimation techniques, have been reviewed by the directors who have confirmed them to be appropriate for the Results before specic items preparation of the 2009 financial statements.
In our income statement and segmental analysis we separately We, in common with virtually all other companies, need to use identify specic items and present our results both before and after estimates in the preparation of our financial statements.
This is consistent with the way that financial sensitive estimates affecting our financial statements are in the performance is measured by management and assists in providing a areas of assessing the level of interconnect income with and meaningful analysis of the trading results of the group.
The payments to other telecommunications operators: providing for directors believe that presentation of the groups results in this way doubtful debts: establishing asset lives of property, plant and is relevant to an understanding of the groups financial equipment for depreciation purposes: assessing the stage of performance as specic items are significant one-off or unusual in completion and likely outcome under long-term contracts: making nature and have little predictive value.
Items that we consider to be appropriate long-term assumptions in calculating pension liabilities significant one-off or unusual in nature include disposals of and costs: making appropriate medium-term assumptions on asset businesses and investments, business restructuring costs, asset impairment reviews: calculating current and deferred tax liabilities: impairment charges and property rationalisation programmes.
An and determining the fair values of certain financial instruments.
analysis of specic items recorded in all years presented is included Details of critical accounting estimates and key judgements are on pages 37 and 38. provided in the accounting policies on page 85.
Underlying revenue and operating costs Underlying revenue and operating costs refers to the amounts Alternative performance measures excluding 1 the contribution in the current year from acquisitions We assess the performance of the group using a variety of that are not reected in the comparable period in the prior year due measures, some of which are not explicitly dened under IFRS, and to the date the acquisition was completed, and 2 the impact of are therefore termed non-GAAP measures.
These measures are in rebasing the current year to be on a constant currency basis addition to, and supplement, those prepared in accordance with compared with the prior year.
No adjustment is made to the prior IFRS.
The alternative performance measures we use include year reported revenue or operating costs in determining the year earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation on year movement in underlying revenue and operating costs.
The EBITDA : adjusted EBITDA: adjusted operating profit: underlying directors believe that presentation of the groups revenue and revenue: underlying operating costs: adjusted profit before operating costs in this way is relevant to an understanding of the taxation: adjusted earnings per share: free cash ow: and net debt.
Both acquisitions and foreign Free cash ow and adjusted basic earnings per share are also the exchange rate movements can have significant impacts on the groups key financial performance indicators.
groups reported revenue and operating costs and therefore can Why we use each of these alternative performance measures is impact year on year comparisons.
Presentation of the groups explained below.
Reconciliations to the nearest measure prepared revenue and operating costs excluding the year on year impact of in accordance with IFRS are included within the body of the acquisitions and on a constant currency basis allows the groups Financial review and in the financial statements.
The alternative revenue and operating costs to be presented on a consistent basis performance measures we use may not be directly comparable to for the purpose of year on year comparisons.
A reconciliation of similarly titled measures used by other companies.
underlying revenue to reported revenue is included on page 33.
A BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 47 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS FINANCIAL REVIEW reconciliation of underlying operating costs to reported operating This denition of net debt measures balances at the expected value costs is given on page 35. of future undiscounted cash ows due to arise on maturity of financial instruments and removes the balance sheet adjustments Adjusted performance measures made from the re-measurement of hedged risks under fair value Performance measures presented as adjusted are stated before hedges and the use of the effective interest method as required by contract and financial review charges recorded within BT Global IAS 39.
In addition, the gross balances are adjusted to take account Services and specic items.
As explained on page 10, during 2009, of netting arrangements.
the new management team undertook an extensive review of BT Net debt is considered to be an alternative performance measure Global Services financial position and contracts.
Having completed as it is not dened in IFRS.
The most directly comparable IFRS the contract and financial reviews, a charge of 1,639m was measure is the aggregate of loans and other borrowings current recognised in 2009 2008 and 2007: nil.
Given the size of these and non current, current asset investments and cash and cash charges, we have presented EBITDA, operating profit, profit before equivalents.
A reconciliation of net debt to this measure is included taxation and earnings per share before these charges and specic on page 103.
It is considered both useful and necessary to disclose items as the directors believe that the presentation of the groups net debt as it is a key measure against which performance against results in this way is relevant to an understanding of the groups the groups strategy is measured.
It is a measure of the groups net financial performance.
A reconciliation from adjusted EBITDA to indebtedness that provides an indicator of the overall balance sheet operating profit, the most directly comparable IFRS measure is strength.
It is also a single measure that can be used to assess both included on pages 34 and 35.
A reconciliation from adjusted profit the groups cash position and indebtedness.
There are material before taxation to the reported loss profit is included on page 32. limitations in the use of alternative performance measures and the A reconciliation from adjusted earnings per share to reported loss use of the term net debt does not necessarily mean that the cash earnings per share is included on page 39. included in the net debt calculation is available to settle the liabilities included in this measure.
Free cash ow Free cash ow is one of our key performance indicators with which our performance against our strategy is measured.
Free cash ow is dened as the net increase in cash and cash equivalents less cash ows from nancing activities except interest paid and less the acquisition or disposal of group undertakings and less the net sale of short-term investments.
Free cash ow is primarily a liquidity measure, however we also believe it is an important indicator of our overall operational performance as it reects the cash we generate from operations after capital expenditure and nancing costs, both of which are significant ongoing cash outows associated with investing in our infrastructure and nancing our operations.
In addition, free cash ow excludes cash ows that are determined at a corporate level independently of ongoing trading operations such as dividends, share buy backs, acquisitions and disposals and repayment of debt.
Our use of the term free cash ow does not mean that this is a measure of the funds that are available for distribution to shareholders.
A reconciliation of free cash ow to net cash inow from operating activities, the most directly comparable IFRS measure, is included on page 41.
Net debt Net debt consists of loans and other borrowings both current and non current, less current asset investments and cash and cash equivalents.
Loans and other borrowings are measured at the net proceeds raised, adjusted to amortise any discount over the term of the debt.
For the purpose of this measure, current asset investments and cash and cash equivalents are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Currency denominated balances within net debt are translated to Sterling at swapped rates where hedged.
48 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS We are committed to operating in accordance with best practice in business integrity, maintaining the highest standards of financial reporting, corporate governance and ethics.
The directors consider that BT has, throughout the year, complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and has applied the principles of the Code as described in this report.
50 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OPERATING 71 BUSINESS POLICIES COMMITTEE 71 Responsible business 50 Board of Directors 71 Political donations 50 Executive directors 71 Pension funds 50 Non-executive directors 71 Payment of suppliers 51 Operating Committee 71 Financial statements 71 Takeover Directive disclosure 52 THE BOARD 72 Financial instruments 52 Introduction 72 Internal control and risk management 52 Directors 73 US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 52 Governance and role of the Board 73 Disclosure controls and procedures 53 BTs non-executive directors 73 Internal control over financial reporting 53 Main Board committees 53 New York Stock Exchange 74 SHAREHOLDERS AND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 54 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 74 Relations with shareholders 54 Introduction 74 Substantial shareholdings 54 Committee role 74 AGM resolutions 54 Committee activities 74 Authority to purchase shares 56 REPORT OF THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE 56 Introduction 56 Committee role and activities 56 Board evaluation 56 REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE FOR RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 56 Introduction 56 Committee role 56 Committee activities 57 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 57 Remuneration policy not audited 64 Remuneration review audited 70 DIRECTORS INFORMATION 70 Election and re-election 70 Meetings attendance 70 Service agreements 70 Training and information 70 Independent advice 70 Directors and ofcers liability insurance and indemnity 70 Interest of management in certain transactions BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 49 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OPERATING COMMITTEE Board of Directors Sir Michael Rake Hanif Lalani OBE c, d, e, f a, f Chairman Chief Executive, BT Global Services Sir Michael was appointed to the Board as Chairman on Hanif Lalani was appointed Chief Executive, BT Global Services, on 26 September 2007.
He chairs the Nominating Committee and the 1 November 2008.
He was Group Finance Director from 7 February Committee for Responsible and Sustainable Business and is a 2005.
He was formerly Chief Financial officer for BT Wholesale.
member of the Remuneration Committee and the Pension Scheme Since joining BT in 1983, he has held a number of positions, Performance Review Group.
He was formerly chairman of KPMG including Chief Executive of BT Northern Ireland and Managing International from 2002 to 2007, and previously held other roles in Director BT Regions.
Hanif was also chairman of OCEAN KPMG from 1972.
Communications BTs subsidiary in the Republic of Ireland.
He was He is chairman of the UK Commission for Employment and Skills, awarded the OBE in 2003 for services to business in Northern and a non-executive director of Barclays, McGraw Hill and the Ireland.
He is a Chartered Management Accountant.
Sir Michaels appointments include vice-president of the RNIB, member of the board of the TransAtlantic Business Dialogue, member of the CBI International Advisory Board, the Chartered Management Institute and BERRs Gavin Patterson a, e US UK Regulatory Taskforce.
Chief Executive, BT Retail A Chartered Accountant, he was knighted in 2007 for his services Gavin Patterson was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2008.
He to the accountancy profession.
Aged 61. joined BT in January 2004 as Managing Director, Consumer Division, BT Retail and was appointed Chief Executive, BT Retail on Executive directors 1 May 2008.
Before joining BT, he was managing director of the consumer division of Telewest.
Gavin joined Telewest in 1999 and held a number of commercial and marketing roles, after working for Procter & Gamble since 1990.
Ian Livingston a Chief Executive Non-executive directors Ian Livingston was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 June 2008.
He was formerly Chief Executive of BT Retail from 7 February 2005 and Group Finance Director from April 2002.
Prior to joining BT, he was group finance director of Dixons Group from 1997.
He joined Maarten van den Bergh b, c, d, f Dixons in 1991 after working for 3i Group and Bank of America Deputy Chairman International.
His experience at Dixons spanned a number of Maarten van den Bergh was appointed to the Board on 1 September operational and financial roles, both in the UK and overseas.
He was appointed Deputy Chairman on 1 October 2006.
He non-executive director of Celtic.
chairs the Remuneration Committee and the Pension Scheme Aged 44.
He is the senior independent director.
He will step down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2009 AGM.
Prior to his retirement in July 2000, Maarten was president of the Royal Dutch Petroleum Company and vice-chairman of its Tony Chanmugam committee of managing directors from July 1998, having been a Group Finance Director appointed a managing director of the Royal Dutch Shell Group of Tony Chanmugam was appointed to the Board on 1 December companies in July 1992.
He was formerly Chief Financial He is a non-executive director of British Airways.
A Dutch officer of BT Retail and Managing Director of BT Enterprises and, national, he is aged 67. from 1997 to 2004, he was Chief Financial officer and then Chief Operating officer at BT Global Solutions.
Aged 55. c Matti Alahuhta Matti Alahuhta was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2006 and will be stepping down on 31 May 2009.
He has been president of Kone Corporation since 2005, president and CEO since 2006 and a director since 2003.
He was formerly at Nokia Corporation for more than 20 years, where his most recent roles were executive vice-president and chief strategy officer, president mobile phones and president telecommunications.
Matti is a member of the Executive Committee of the International Institute for Management Development IMD, a non-executive director of UPM-Kymmene Corporation, and chairman of the board of trustees of Aalto University, Helsinki.
A Finnish national, he is aged 56.
50 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OPERATING COMMITTEE b, d, e c, e Clayton Brendish Deborah Lathen Clay Brendish was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2002.
Deborah Lathen was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2007.
Prior to his retirement in May 2001, Clay was executive deputy She is a US attorney and has been president of Lathen Consulting chairman of CMG having joined the board when it acquired which provides strategic, legal and management advice on policy Admiral.
Clay was co-founder and executive chairman of Admiral.
and regulatory matters to senior executives of major US companies He also acted as an adviser to the Government on the efficiency of since 2001.
From 1998 to 2001 she worked at the Federal the Civil Service.
Communications Commission FCC as chief of the Cable Services He is non-executive chairman of Anite, Close Beacon Investment Bureau where she was responsible for policy and regulation Fund and Echo Research and a non-executive director of Herald covering the cable, satellite TV and broadcast industries.
He is also a trustee of Economist Newspapers.
Prior to joining the FCC, Deborah held roles as director of Aged 62. national consumer affairs and managing counsel at Nissan Motor Corporation USA and legal positions at TRW Financial Systems and the Quaker Oats Company.
A US national, she is aged 56. c, d J Eric Daniels Eric Daniels was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2008.
He has b, c, g Carl G Symon been group chief executive of Lloyds Banking Group formerly Lloyds TSB Group since 2003 and a director since 2001, and was Carl Symon was appointed to the Board on 14 January 2002, and formerly group executive director, UK retail banking.
He worked for was appointed chairman of the Equality of Access Board when it Citibank from 1975 to 2000 becoming chief operating officer of became operational on 1 November 2005.
He retired from IBM in Citibanks consumer bank, then chairman and CEO of Travelers Life May 2001 after a 32-year career, during which he held senior and Annuity following its merger with Citibank.
After that, Eric executive positions in the US, Canada, Latin America, Asia and was chairman and chief executive of Zona Financiera from 2000 Europe.
to 2001 before joining Lloyds TSB Group.
A US National, he is Carl is a non-executive director of BAE Systems and Rexam.
He aged 57. was formerly chairman of the HMV Group and a non-executive director of Rolls-Royce.
A US National, he is aged 63. b, f Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt MP Andrew Parker Company Secretary Patricia Hewitt was appointed to the Board on 24 March 2008.
Labour MP for Leicester West, she was Secretary of State for Health Andrew Parker, formerly General Counsel, BT Retail from 2004, was from 2005 to 2007 and previously for Trade and Industry and appointed Company Secretary on 1 April 2008.
A solicitor, he has Cabinet Minister for Women from 2001 to 2005.
Before entering worked for BT since 1988 in a number of legal, regulatory and Parliament in 1997, she was director of research EMEA at Andersen compliance roles.
He is an employer-nominated trustee director of Consulting now Accenture and deputy director of the Institute for the BT Pension Scheme.
Andrew previously worked in the City in Public Policy Research.
Patricia is a senior adviser to Cinven and a legal private practice.
Aged 49. special consultant to Alliance Boots.
A British and Australian dual national, she is aged 60.
Operating Committee Ian Livingston, Chief Executive Tony Chanmugam, Group Finance Director b, d, e, f Hanif Lalani, Chief Executive, BT Global Services Phil Hodkinson Gavin Patterson, Chief Executive, BT Retail Phil Hodkinson was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2006.
Sally Davis, Chief Executive, BT Wholesale He chairs the Audit Committee.
A Fellow of the Institute of Roel Louwhoff, Chief Executive, BT Operate Actuaries, prior to his retirement in 2007, Phils former roles Al-Noor Ramji, Chief Executive, BT Design included group finance director of HBOS, chairman of Insight Investment and Clerical Medical, and chief executive of Zurich Life Key to membership of Board committees: and Eagle Star Life.
a Operating Phil is a non-executive director of HM Revenue & Customs, b Audit Travelex, Resolution, Christian Aid and Business in the Community.
c Remuneration Aged 51. d Nominating e Responsible and Sustainable Business f Pension Scheme Performance Review Group g Equality of Access Board BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 51 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS THE BOARD The Boards main focus is overall strategic direction, development Introduction and control.
It approves BTs: BT Group plc is the listed holding company for the BT group of values: companies: its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and business practice policies: on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American strategic plans: Depositary Shares.
The directors submit their report and the audited financial annual budget: statements of the company, BT Group plc, and the group, which capital expenditure and investments budgets: larger capital includes its subsidiary undertakings, for the 2009 financial year.
expenditure proposals: and The Business review, Other matters and Financial review the overall system of internal controls, governance and sections on pages 8 to 48 form part of this report.
financial statements are presented on pages 79 to 135 and 141.
The Board also oversees controls, operating and financial We are committed to operating in accordance with best practice performance and reviews the risk register.
These responsibilities are in business integrity, maintaining the highest standards of financial set out in a formal statement of the Boards role which is available reporting, corporate governance and ethics.
The directors consider at www.
com board The Board has agreed the corporate that BT has, throughout the year, complied with the provisions set governance framework, including giving authority to the key out in Section 1 of the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate management committee, the Operating Committee, to make Governance the Code and applied the principles of the Code as decisions on operational and other matters.
The roles and powers of described in this Report.
this Committee are set out below.
The Board normally meets nine times each year.
The Board met Directors 12 times during the 2009 financial year.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separate.
The names and biographical details of the directors are given on They are set out in written job descriptions, approved by the pages 50 to 51 in Board of Directors and Operating Committee.
As well as chairing the Board, the Changes to the composition of the Board from 1 April 2008 are Chairman consults the non-executive directors, particularly the set out in the table below: Deputy Chairman, on corporate governance issues, matters considered by the Nominating Committee, which the Chairman Former directors Date of change chairs, and the individual performance of the non-executive Ben Verwaayen 30 June 2008 directors.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors hold regular meetings at which they discuss matters without the Franois Barrault 30 October 2008 executive directors being present.
With the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept New directors properly informed, is consulted on all issues reserved to it and that its decisions are made in a timely and considered way that enables Tony Chanmugam 1 December 2008 the directors to full their duciary duties.
The Chairman ensures Eric Daniels 1 April 2008 that the views of the shareholders are known to the Board and considered appropriately.
He represents BT in specified strategic Gavin Patterson 1 June 2008 and Government relationships, as agreed with the Chief Executive, and generally acts as the bridge between the Board and the Ian Livingston, formerly Chief Executive, BT Retail, succeeded executive team, particularly on BTs broad strategic direction.
The Ben Verwaayen as Chief Executive, BT Group on 1 June 2008.
Gavin Chairmans other current significant commitments are shown in Patterson replaced Ian Livingston as Chief Executive, BT Retail, on Board of Directors and Operating Committee above.
Franois Barrault resigned as Chief Executive, BT Executive has final executive responsibility, reporting to the Board, Global Services and as a director on 30 October 2008.
He was for the success of the group.
succeeded by Hanif Lalani, formerly Group Finance Director.
Tony The Company Secretary manages the provision of timely, Chanmugam joined the Board and succeeded Hanif Lalani as Group accurate and considered information to the Board for its meetings Finance Director on 1 December 2008.
Maarten van den Bergh and, in consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive, at who is Deputy Chairman and the senior independent director will other appropriate times.
He recommends to the Chairman and the step down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2009 AGM.
His Chief Executive, for Board consideration where appropriate, successor will be announced in due course.
Matti Alahuhta is corporate governance policies and practices and is responsible for stepping down as a non-executive director on 31 May 2009. communicating and implementing them.
He advises the Board on appropriate procedures for the management of its meetings and Governance and role of the Board duties and the meetings of the main committees, as well as corporate governance and compliance within the group.
The The Board, which operates as a single team, is made up of the partappointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for time Chairman, the Chief Executive, three other executive directors the whole Board: for instance, the Board approved the change of and eight non-executive directors.
All the non-executive directors Company Secretary from 1 April 2008. during the 2009 financial year met, and continue to meet, the criteria for independence set out in the Combined Code and are therefore considered by the Board to be independent.
The Board viewed the Chairman as independent at the time of his appointment.
In line with BTs policy, the Board comprised a majority of independent non-executive directors throughout the 2009 financial year.
52 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS THE BOARD Committee have long been an established part of BTs system of BTs non-executive directors governance.
Each committee has written terms of reference, which The Nominating Committee has agreed and reviews from time to are available on our website.
The Report of the Audit Committee, time the combination of experience, skills and other attributes the Report of the Nominating Committee and the Report on which the non-executive directors as a whole should bring to the directors remuneration are on pages 54 to 69.
This prole is used by the Committee, when the first time, a Report of the Committee for Responsible and appointment of a non-executive director is being considered, to Sustainable Business is included on page 56.
The Equality of Access assess the suitability of candidates.
Short-listed candidates meet Board EAB was established on 1 November 2005, as part of the the Committee, which then recommends to the Board candidates Undertakings given by BT to Ofcom following Ofcoms strategic for appointment.
review of telecommunications, to monitor, report and advise BT on The non-executive directors provide a strong, independent BTs compliance with these Undertakings.
The EAB is a committee element on the Board.
Between them, they bring experience and of the Board, which formally approved the formation of the EAB independent judgment, gained at the most senior levels of and its terms of reference.
As required by the Undertakings, the international business operations and strategy, finance, marketing, EAB comprises five members: Carl Symon, a BT non-executive technology, communications and political and international affairs.
director and chairman of the EAB: a BT senior executive, Himanshu In his capacity as Deputy Chairman, and as the chairman of the Raja, Chief Financial officer, BT Design: and three independent Remuneration Committee, Maarten van den Bergh is available to members: Sir Bryan Carsberg, Stephen Pettit and Dr Peter Radley.
meet from time to time with BTs major institutional shareholders.
The EAB reports regularly to the Board.
Its terms of reference are He is able to discuss matters with these shareholders where it would available on BTs website.
be inappropriate for those discussions to take place with either the The Board also has a Pension Scheme Performance Review Chairman or the Chief Executive.
Non-executive directors are appointed initially for three years, subject to three months termination notice from either BT or the New York Stock Exchange director.
At the end of the first three years the appointment may be continued by mutual agreement.
Each non-executive director is BT, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on the provided, upon appointment, with a letter setting out the terms of New York Stock Exchange NYSE, is obliged to disclose any his or her appointment, including membership of Board significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ committees, the fees to be paid and the time commitment from the corporate governance listing standards of the expected from the director.
The letter also covers such matters as NYSE.
the condentiality of information and BTs share dealing code.
We have reviewed the NYSEs listing standards and believe that our corporate governance practices are consistent with them, with the following exception where we do not meet the strict Main Board committees requirements set out in the standards.
These state that companies The Operating Committee, the key management committee, meets must have a nominating corporate governance committee weekly and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
The other members composed entirely of independent directors and with written terms are the Group Finance Director and the Chief Executives of BT of reference which, in addition to identifying individuals qualied Retail, BT Wholesale, BT Global Services, BT Design and BT Operate.
to become board members, develops and recommends to the The Company Secretary attends all meetings and the Group HR Board a set of corporate governance principles applicable to the Director normally attends the meetings.
We have a Nominating Committee chaired by the collective responsibility for running the groups business.
To do Chairman, Sir Michael Rake, but this does not develop corporate that, it develops BTs strategy and budget for Board approval, governance principles for the Boards approval.
The Board itself recommends to the Board capital expenditure and investments approves the groups overall system of internal controls, budgets, monitors financial, operational and customer quality of governance and compliance authorities.
The Board and the service performance, reviews the risk register, allocates resources Nominating Committee are made up of a majority of independent, across BT within plans agreed by the Board, plans and delivers non-executive directors.
major programmes and reviews the senior talent base and The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the US Securities and Exchange succession plans.
Within BTs corporate governance framework, Commission SEC and NYSE introduced rules on 31 July 2005 approved by the Board, the Operating Committee can approve, up requiring us to comply with certain provisions relating to the Audit to limits beyond which Board approval is required, capital Committee.
These include the independence of Audit Committee expenditure, disposals of xed assets, investments and members and procedures for the treatment of complaints regarding divestments.
It can delegate these approvals, up to its own limits, accounting or auditing matters.
We are fully compliant with these to senior executives.
To meet best corporate governance practice, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominating BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 53 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
