DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Directors report Directors remuneration report The Board presents the Remuneration Report for the Company generally and Faegre and Benson also 52 weeks ended 1 January 2010. provide additional legal advice to the Company.
Neither Hewitt New Bridge Street nor Alithos Limited provides other services to the Company.
Terms of Role of the Remuneration Committee engagement with each provider are available from the The Board sets the Companys remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee makes recommendations to the Board within its agreed terms of reference available on the The Committee determines policy for the Companys website www.
com or from the remuneration of the executive directors and is Company Secretary at the Companys registered consulted and provides guidance on the broader office on the Companys framework of executive remuneration policies for the Group below Board level remuneration and its cost.
based on recommendations of the Chief Executive Officer and the other executive directors.
Further information on meetings held and attendance by the The Committee also determines on behalf of the members of the Committee is disclosed in the Board, specific remuneration packages for each of the Corporate Governance report on page 72. executive directors and for the Chairman.
The Committee administers the Companys share incentive plans for employees and monitors and The Directors Report on Remuneration for the period provides guidance on the level and structure of ended 2 January 2009 was approved by the remuneration for senior management who report to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held in the Chief Executive Officer.
As required by the Companies Act, determines the remuneration of the non-executive shareholders will be invited to approve this report at directors.
No director plays a part in any discussion the Annual General Meeting to be held on 19 May about their own remuneration.
Mr Giacoletto-Roggio is Chairman of the Committee.
This Report has been prepared in accordance with The other current members of the Committee, all of the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The report also whom are independent non-executive directors within meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules the definition of the Code, are set out on pages 59 of the Financial Services Authority and describes how and 60.
Mr Mackintosh, Chairman of the Board, the Board has applied the Principles of Good attends meetings of the Committee as a member.
The Governance relating to directors remuneration.
Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
None of the members of the Committee The Act requires the auditors to report to the has any personal financial interest other than as Companys members on certain parts of the shareholders, conflicts of interests arising from crossRemuneration Report and to state whether in their directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the opinion those parts of the Remuneration Report have business of the Company.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Act.
The Remuneration Report has therefore been divided An evaluation of the performance of the Committee into separate sections for audited and unaudited was conducted during 2009, in regards to which information.
more information is contained in the Corporate Governance report on page 64.
In setting the remuneration policy, the Committee takes into account the strategic objectives of the The Committee has access to detailed external Group and the expected performance of individual research from independent consultants.
During the directors within their areas of responsibility.
Targets year, professional advice has been provided by Hewitt set in association with the performance related New Bridge Street HNBS, Slaughter and May, elements of pay take into account the strategic Faegre and Benson LLP and Alithos Limited.
Each of objectives of the Company for example in the the advisers were appointed by the Committee.
development and release of particular chips, and the Slaughter and May act as legal advisers to the development of strategic partnerships.
These are CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 73 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued reviewed each year in the context of the plans set for established by the Committee at the beginning of the group as a whole and are agreed for each each performance period reflecting what, at that time, executive director at the start of a financial year.
the Committee considers to be demanding targets.
These targets are set taking appropriate account of the challenging and rapidly evolving market in which Unaudited information the Group operates, and the expectations of the Changes in executive directors investment community on the Companys potential With effect from completion of the SiRF acquisition on future performance.
26 June 2009, Mr Kanwar Chadha was appointed as an executive director to the Board and Chief Marketing Officer of CSR plc.
Mr Chadha was a founder and an The Remuneration Committee considers corporate executive director of SiRF Technology Holdings Inc performance on environmental, social and governance and served as Vice President of Strategic Corporate issues and the extent to which these should be Initiatives, Corporate Marketing and as Secretary at the incorporated into the performance-related benefits of time of the completion of the acquisition.
The Committee looked at the biography and professional experience is set out on matter at the end of 2009 and determined that, given page 59. the Companys current activities and its strategic imperatives for 2010, it was not appropriate to incorporate such matters specifically within the On 4 August 2009, Mr Chadha was granted options incentive arrangements for any executive director and share awards under the Companys Share Option during 2010.
This will be kept under review on an and Share Award Plans of 400% of salary for share annual basis.
options and 200% of salary for share awards.
These exceptional awards were made as the Committee recognised the importance of retaining and motivating Basic salary Mr Chadha following the acquisition and going An executive directors basic salary is considered by forward.
Each of the grants made under the Share the Committee on appointment and then reviewed Option and Share Award Plans are subject to each year and when an individual changes position or satisfying performance conditions.
All of the options responsibility.
When making a determination as to the and shares granted to Mr Chadha are subject to a appropriate remuneration, the Committee considers three year retention period and the requirement that, remuneration practices within the Group as a whole subject to certain mitigating factors, he is an employee and where considered relevant, conducts objective at the end of the retention period.
research on companies within the Companys UK listed peers of a similar size with an international focus, reflecting that the Company is competing in a Remuneration policy for the executive directors global market.
The target salary is at mid-market Executive remuneration packages are designed in noting that after promotion or appointment to the order to attract, motivate and retain employees of the Board it may take several years to meet this policy, highest calibre required by the Group in order to with the opportunity to go above this level, subject to achieve its objectives, to meet the needs of sustained individual performance.
customers and enhance value to shareholders.
There are five main elements of the remuneration package for executive directors and senior management, which With the exception of Mr Ladas and Mr Chadha, both include medium and long term incentives comprising of whom are paid their salary in US Dollars, the basic annual salary, benefits-in-kind, the opportunity executive directors in office at 1 January 2010 were to participate in a money purchase pension scheme, a paid in pounds sterling.
Details of the basic salary of cash bonus plan and participation in the Companys the executive directors who served during the period share incentive plans.
ended 1 January 2010 are set forth in the table on page 82.
The Companys policy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the executive directors should As previously reported, salary levels were not adjusted be performance-related.
The payment of both cash at 1 January 2009 following the review conducted in bonuses and the vesting of share incentives are December 2008.
The Committees decision, which subject to meeting performance conditions was supported by the Board as a whole, was CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 74 considered appropriate given the prevailing economic In keeping with a decision on the review of salaries for environment and the decision was in keeping with the the Group as a whole, the salaries for the executive general pay freeze which had been adopted for the directors were reviewed in February 2010, with any Group.
adjustment to take effect from 1 April 2010.
The adjustment will be backdated to 1 January 2010 and the increase in salary for the first quarter will be paid in As stipulated in the 2008 report of the Committee to the March salary.
This adjustment is being carried out shareholders, the Committee kept under review in 2010 only and applies to all employees.
whether any increases were warranted during the year.
Benefits-in-kind The executive directors receive certain In July 2009, following the completion of the benefits-in-kind, comprising private medical acquisition of SiRF, the Committee reviewed the insurance, life assurance of four times basic salary, salary level of Mr van Beurden, the Chief Executive and personal accident insurance and subsistence Officer.
The Committee assessed his overall expenses.
During 2009, Mr Ladas, who lives in the performance since joining the Company and took into US, was provided with support towards the cost of a account the contribution he had made to facilitate the UK temporary residence reflecting his frequent travel acquisition of SiRF, whilst also noting that his salary and stays in the United Kingdom as part of the had remained unchanged since his appointment in performance of his role.
Mr Ladas and Mr Chadha November 2007.
The Committee consulted with and also receive US-based dental plan insurance.
took advice provided by HNBS which highlighted that Mr van Beurdens salary was significantly below Cash bonus plan mid-market against a specific peer group and a The Committee is responsible for determining on what general group of similar sized companies.
Having basis to incentivise employees, including executive regard to these elements, the Committee concluded directors, through a cash bonus plan.
The Committee that Mr van Beurden should be awarded an increase establishes against defined targets the minimum in basic annual salary to 400,000 per annum which threshold at which a bonus will be payable and the was effective from 1 July 2009.
This increased salary maximum potential award.
In setting appropriate remains below the identified mid-market.
bonus thresholds and targets, the Committee may refer to the objective research on a comparator group As a result of this change in basic annual salary, the as noted on page 74 under Basic salary.
bonus potential for Mr van Beurden for 2009 was adjusted to ensure that the total potential cash The performance metrics used for the 2009 cash remuneration before and after the basic salary bonus comprised underlying operating profit and cash increase was broadly comparable.
This was achieved generation in addition to personal performance by reducing the maximum potential bonus from 150% objectives.
These targets were set after considering to 100% of salary for Mr van Beurden effective from the Companys budgeted underlying operating profit 1 July 2009.
Prior to 1 July 2009, Mr van Beurdens and market expectations on financial performance, in annual total potential cash remuneration would have addition to cash flow targets which recognised the been 750,000.
Following the increase to Mr van significance of good cash management required in the Beurdens basic salary and the reduction of his challenging economic environment prevailing when maximum potential bonus, the annual total potential the targets were established.
The targets were agreed cash remuneration became 775,000. based upon objectives which were considered to be appropriate and stretching against the background of Current salaries at February 2010 are: the prevailing economic conditions.
J A J van Beurden 400,000 Achievement of targets based on the Companys J D Y Collier 286,000 financial and strategic objectives and the personal performance of individual directors would result in D D W Gardiner 301,600 determination by the Committee of the appropriate C A Ladas $312,000 size of the bonus having regard to actual performance K Chadha $312,000 against the targets.
The maximum potential bonus CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 75 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued payable for the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2010 was strategic and personal objectives set by the 150% of salary for the period prior to 1 July 2009 and Committee.
The shares will, subject to meeting the 100% of salary from 1 July 2009 for Mr van Beurden performance conditions, vest in March 2011.
Each of adjusted for the reason explained above and 100% Mr van Beurden and Mr Gardiner may elect to sell of salary for other executive directors.
The on-target sufficient shares to satisfy the tax liability on vesting, bonus potential for Mr van Beurden was 75% of but are otherwise required to hold the shares they salary for the period prior to 1 July 2009 and 50% of receive for a further period of 12 months.
salary from 1 July 2009 and 50% of salary for other executive directors.
Targets for the bonus plan for 2010 have been determined by taking into account the financial targets The on-target financial objectives set at the beginning and strategic objectives of the Company, with due of the performance period were exceeded, which regard for market expectations in addition to personal resulted in payment of bonus being made in objectives set for each of the executive directors.
All accordance with pre-determined hurdles.
The extent executive directors in office at 2 January 2010 have to which these targets had been satisfied was initially been invited to participate in the cash bonus plan for considered by the audit committee and then 2010. discussed by the remuneration committee.
In addition, the Committee also considered the extent to The use of a deferral period or potential clawback which the personal objectives had been satisfied for provisions in the cash bonus plan will be considered in each executive director in order to assess the amount due course along with other matters raised in the which should be paid.
Based on this assessment, the revised Combined Code.
amount of the bonus paid to each executive director Share option plans is as shown below.
The Company has a number of share option plans J A J van Beurden 395,500 intended to facilitate the motivation and retention of employees.
Two of the plans were established prior to J D Y Collier 221,537 the Companys flotation, being the Founders Share D D W Gardiner 269,870 Option Plan and the Global Share Option Plan.
Whilst C A Ladas $241,676 not all the awards under these two plans have been exercised, the plans are closed for the purpose of any Following the decision of Mr Chadha to waive his new awards, and neither plan was used during 2009 entitlement to a cash bonus, the Committee for grants to executive directors or to other determined to allot Mr Chadha 16,580 ordinary shares employees.
in the Company, in the form of restricted shares, which, subject to remaining an employee as at Following shareholder approval at the 2004 Annual 1 March 2011, will be transferred to Mr Chadha at General Meeting, the Company established the CSR that date.
There are no further performance conditions plc Share Option Plan CSOP.
The reason for the applying to the transfer of the restricted shares and introduction of this plan was to provide a means by Mr Chadha may elect to hold or sell the shares on which to incentivise the executive directors and transfer at 1 March 2011. employees whilst aligning their interests more closely with those of the Companys shareholders.
The The Committee reviewed the bonus potential of the Committee has responsibility for supervising the executive directors in February 2010 for the 2010 CSOP and the grant of options in accordance with its financial year.
The cash bonus potential was set at a rules.
maximum potential of 100% of salary.
For each of Mr van Beurden and Mr Gardiner the bonus potential Awards are made to executive directors and other comprises a combined cash element up to a employees at the discretion of the Committee.
maximum potential of 100% of salary and a share Awards for directors and other senior employees are element, which for Mr van Beurden is a maximum subject to a three year retention period and the opportunity of 120,000 shares and for Mr Gardiner is requirement that, subject to certain mitigating factors, a maximum opportunity of 100,000.
Both the cash the participant is an employee at the end of the and share elements are subject to satisfying financial, retention period.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 76 In December 2009, the Committee initiated a detailed review of the structure of the plans used by the Company to grant options to Directors and other employees.
This review has been undertaken with due regard to the growth of the business and the increased relative size of the Group outside of the UK following in particular the acquisition of SiRF in 2009.
The review recognises the global nature of the Groups business and the need to attract retain and motivate employees at all levels of the Group who can support the change in scale and spread of the business and support its objectives for further growth in the future.
This process will involve consultation with shareholders during the course of 2010.
Since the introduction of the CSOP, through to and including grants made in 2008, the vesting of shares was subject to a performance target based on the growth over a three year period in the Companys underlying earnings per share.
Details of the targets for grants made in 2008 and prior years appear as notes to the table on page 85.
The performance target for the 2007 grants were not met, and these options therefore lapse.
As disclosed in the report of the Committee for 2008, following a review conducted in December 2008 by the Committee in conjunction with its adviser HNBS, of long term share reward structures, as applied across the Group from executive director level down, the Committee decided that the target for options under the CSOP would, for grants made in 2009, be based on relative Total Shareholder Return of the Company against a peer group over a period of three years.
The peer group is shown below.
The Committee reviewed in February 2010 the grants of share options under the companys plans for each of the executive directors.
The Committee looked in particular at the bonus arrangements for the CEO and CFO, and, taking into consideration the exceptional performance of each over the period since they each joined the Company, and in particular during 2009, it was decided it was appropriate to make a higher grant under each plan at 200% of salary under the CSOP and 200% of salary under the Share Award Plan.
Total Shareholder Return comparator group of companies The following basket of comparator companies is used for determining the relative TSR performance of the Company, for grants being made in 2010.
ARM Holdings plc GN Store Nord A S QUALCOMM Incorporated Advanced Semiconductor Hewlett-Packard Development STMicroelectronics N. V. Engineering, Inc. Company L. P. ASML Holding N. V. Infineon Technology AG Silicon Laboratories Inc. Analog Devices, Inc. Intel Corporation Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Apple Computer, Inc. Logitech International SA Spirent plc Atheros Communications, Inc. Marvell Technology Group Ltd Synopsys Inc. austriamicrosystems AG Motorola, Inc. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited Broadcom Corporation National Semiconductor Teradyne, Inc.
Corporation Cirrus Logic, Inc. Nokia Oyj Texas Instruments Incorporated Conexant Systems, Inc. PMC-Sierra, Inc. Wolfson Microelectronics plc Dell, Inc. Plantronics, Inc.
The grants in 2009 included additional companies in the comparator group, being Bookham Inc, Dialog Semiconductor plc, Nordic Semiconductor ASA, Research in Motion Ltd and Wavecom SA CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 77 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued The Committee decided that the thresholds to be met Performance share awards would be as follows.
None of the options shall vest if At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2005, the Companys relative position is below median.
30% shareholders approved the introduction of a Share of a grant shall vest at median, with full vesting of a Award Plan called the CSR Share Award Plan.
grant for performance at the upper quartile.
Shares Awards are made to executive directors and other shall vest on a straight-line basis between the median employees at the discretion of the Committee.
and upper quartile, with no retesting of the Since the introduction of the Share Award Plan, performance condition if it is not met at the end of the vesting of the Share Awards made to executive three year period.
directors and senior management have been subject The performance condition is considered by the to Total Shareholder Return TSR over a fixed three Committee to be challenging and appropriately year period with an additional requirement that the aligned with shareholder interest to achieving Company should have achieved a sustained sustained performance in the return to shareholders improvement in underlying financial performance over over the three year performance period.
This same the same three year period.
Grants of share awards target has been adopted in respect of grants to be below this level which have been small in value have made in 2010. been subject only to employment at the end of the retention period.
The rules of the CSOP do not allow for options to be granted at a discount to the Companys share price at With the decision to extend the grant of share awards the date of grant.
with accompanying performance conditions to other employees, the Committee had decided that for The Companys policy is to grant options to executive grants in 2009, the performance condition for vesting directors at the discretion of the Committee up to a would be underlying earnings per share.
maximum of 200% of salary, taking into account individual performance.
Pursuant to the rules of the The detail of the condition is that no Share Award will CSOP, the Committee also reserves to its discretion vest for a compound underlying EPS growth of less the right to grant awards at a higher proportion of than 7.5% per annum, adjusted for RPI.
30% vests for basic salary which, in exceptional circumstances only, a compound underlying EPS growth of 7.5% per such as recruitment of a new executive or key annum, adjusted for RPI and full vesting of the share employee, could be up to 400% of basic salary.
awards occurs for a compound underlying EPS growth of 15% per annum adjusted for RPI.
Share The Company operates an HM Revenue and awards vest on a straight line basis for a compound Customs approved SAYE Share Option Scheme for underlying EPS growth between 7.5% and 15% eligible employees under which options may be adjusted for RPI.
There is no retesting of the granted at a discount of up to 20% of market value.
performance condition if it is not met at the end of the Executive directors resident in the UK are eligible to three year performance period.
participate in the SAYE Share Option Scheme.
The Committee considers that these performance Following the acquisition of SiRF, and as approved by conditions are appropriate for the form of award and shareholders at the General Meeting held on 25 June are suitably stretching.
2009, the Company introduced an Employee Share Purchase Plan the ESPP specifically for its US Grants made in May 2005 completed the three year employees under which the option to acquire shares in retention period in May 2008.
Following completion of the Company may be granted at a discount of up to the three year performance period 1 January 2005 to 15% of the market value.
US-based employees are 31 December 2007 for these grants the Committee invited to participate in the ESPP during an offer period considered a report which had been prepared by an which is expected to be made once every twelve independent agency, Alithos Limited, on the months.
The ESPP allows US employees to save a Companys TSR performance.
That report concluded pre-determined amount from their monthly salary that the Companys comparative TSR performance which may at the end of a specified savings period be against its peer group resulted in a ranking that used towards the purchase of shares in the Company.
allowed for 89.87% of the original grants to US resident directors may participate in the ESPP.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 78 The TSR performance target for the grants made in The level of award is considered each year in the 2006 were not met and the Share Awards therefore light of performance.
The TSR performance target for the grants The Company monitors the awards of shares made made in 2007 were not met, and the Share Awards under the various share plans which it operates in therefore lapse.
relation to their effect on dilution limits.
Following shareholder approval at the 2005 Annual General The performance condition in respect of grants to be Meeting, the Company is able to make selective made in 2010 is subject to meeting specific EPS share awards while maintaining the traditional overall targets in 2012.
In order for 20% of the grant to vest, 10% limit on awards as a proportion of the issued the Company must achieve an EPS of 58 cents, share capital in any rolling ten year period.
increasing to vesting at 100% for achieving an EPS of Conscious of the need to ensure that the 70 cents.
Above 58 cents up to maximum vesting at satisfaction of issue of new shares to employees 70 cents, the shares will vest on a straight line basis.
pursuant to its share schemes operates within ABI guidelines, the CSR Employee Benefit Trust the In accordance with the rules of the CSR Share Trust was established during 2007.
The Trust will Award Plan, the Committee will reserve the right to enable the grant of shares to employees on exercise grant awards at a proportion of basic salary normally of vested options to be met by using shares up to a maximum of 100% of salary 200% in acquired by the Trust in the open market.
During 2008, the Trust acquired in the open market an aggregate of 3,222,813 ordinary shares in CSR The table below summarises awards granted and plc.
This was satisfied through cash drawn down exercised in 2009 under the CSR Share Award Plan, under the terms of a Loan Facility Agreement and the total awards held by each executive director established at the time of the creation of the Trust.
During 2009 the Trust did not acquire any shares.
The details of each purchase of ordinary shares in No significant amendments are proposed to be made CSR plc and the total holding by the Trust is shown to the terms and conditions of any entitlement of an in note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements executive director under these share incentive plans.
One executive director has established Three of the executive directors serving at the year their own personal pension plan to which the end were members of the Cambridge Silicon Radio Company contributes.
One director participates in Retirement Benefits Scheme the UK Pension Plan the US 401K Plan which the Company operates for which is an HM Revenue and Customs approved its US-resident employees.
money purchase defined contribution scheme Contributions are determined as a percentage of the operated for eligible employees in the United employees gross basic salary.
Details of the actual CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 79 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued contributions made by the Group to the UK Pension Plan and Share ownership the US 401K Plan on behalf of the executive directors are set Executive directors are encouraged to build up a shareholding out in the table on page 83. in the Company to a level equivalent to 100% of their basic salary.
This shareholding can be satisfied through retention of 50% or more at the discretion of the director concerned of Normal retirement age is 65 for employees and executive the shares obtained as a result of participating in a Company directors.
share plan, net of the shares sold to finance option exercises or to pay a National Insurance or income tax liability or Other than basic salary, no element of the directors overseas equivalent.
The programme specifically excludes the remuneration is pensionable.
need for directors to make a personal investment should awards not vest.
Normally the Committee would expect the executive director to achieve the holding within five years following appointment to the Board.
Performance graph The graph below shows the Companys performance, measured by total shareholder return, compared with the performance of the FTSE 250 index.
The FTSE 250 index has been selected for this comparison because it is a broad equity index of which CSR plc is a constituent company.
Mr Giacoletto-Roggio will be standing for reIt is the Companys policy that executive directors election at the Annual General Meeting being held on should have contracts of an indefinite term.
As 19 May 2010. disclosed below executive directors have a service contract which is subject to one years notice from the The terms and conditions of appointment are available Company.
Each of Mr van Beurden, Mr Collier, for inspection at the Companys registered office Mr Gardiner and Mr Ladas has a service agreement during normal business hours on request to the requiring them to give six months notice to the Company Secretary and up to 15 minutes prior to and Company.
at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The details of the directors service contracts and In May 2009 the Board reviewed the fees payable to notice period from the Company under their non-executive directors and determined that there respective contracts for those in office at the year end should be no increase in the current arrangements.
are summarised in the table below: The basic fee for a non-executive director therefore remained 42,000.
Following the retirement of Date of service Period of Mr David Tucker from the Board immediately on the Name of director contract notice conclusion of the Annual General Meeting held in May J A J van Beurden 29 September 2007 1 year 2009, Mr Andrew Allner was appointed chairman of J D Y Collier 25 February 2004 1 year the Audit Committee and Mr Anthony Carlisle was appointed the Senior Independent Director.
As a D D W Gardiner 27 February 2008 1 year result, the fee paid to Mr Allner was increased by C A Ladas 12 December 2007 1 year 6,000 on a pro-rata basis and the fee paid to Mr Carlisle was increased by 5,500 on a pro-rata In the event of termination, a director would be basis.
The fee paid to Mr Giacoletto-Roggio, who acts entitled to a payment not exceeding one years as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee remuneration.
In an appropriate case, the Company remained at 47,700.
The fee paid to Mr Mackintosh would have regard to the departing directors duty to as Chairman of the Board remained 170,000.
Fees mitigate against costs to the Company.
The contract with Mr Chadha remains to be finalised.
The fees of the non-executive directors and the Chairman were reviewed in February 2010.
It was determined that the basic fee paid to non-executive Non-executive directors directors would increase to 45,000.
It was also All non-executive directors have specific terms of agreed that the fee payable to Mr Carlisle in his engagement provided in formal letters of appointment capacity as Senior Independent Director would be and their remuneration is determined by the Board adjusted by the payment of a further 8,500 within the limits set by the Articles of Association and previously 5,500, to Mr Allner in his capacity as based on independent surveys of fees paid to chairman of the audit committee by payment of a non-executive directors of similar companies.
The further 9,000 previously 6,000 and to fees for non-executive directors are considered each Mr Giacoletto-Roggio in his capacity as chairman of year.
The non-executive directors are appointed for a the remuneration committee 8,700 previously three year fixed term, subject to re-appointment by 5,700.
The fee payable to Mr Mackintosh, as the shareholders.
Chairman of the Board was increased to 180,000.
The letter of appointment of Mr Giacoletto-Roggio Non-executive directors do not receive any bonus, do was due for renewal in January 2010.
Following not participate in awards under the Companys share confirmation from Mr Giacoletto-Roggio that he was schemes and are not eligible to join the Companys prepared to remain a director for a further three year pension scheme.
period, the Board determined at its meeting in December 2009 to re-appoint Mr Giacoletto-Roggio for a further three years effective from 4 January CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 81 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Mr Banatao who is proposed for election and both Mr Giacoletto-Roggio and Mr Mackintosh who are proposed for re-election, being non-executive directors, do not have a service contract.
Date of letter Duration of Name of director of appointment appointment R W Mackintosh 2 May 2007 3 years A E C G Carlisle 23 September 2008 3 years S Giacoletto-Roggio 4 January 2010 3 years A J Allner 23 September 2008 3 years D Banatao 24 November 2009 3 years Effective from 26 June 2009.
Outside appointments Executive directors are entitled to accept appointments outside the Company provided that the Chairmans permission is sought prior to accepting the appointment.
Whether or not the director concerned is permitted to retain their fees is considered on a case by case basis.
The salary and fees for other directors were paid in Pounds Sterling but, denominated in US Dollars for reporting purposes, consistent with the accounting policies of the Company.
The fees for Mr Giacoletto-Roggio were paid in US Dollars and then from mid-year onwards were paid in Pounds Sterling.
Resigned 29 February 2008 remaining employed to 31 May 2008.
Mr van Beurden received a bonus of 150,000 in February 2009 which was disclosed in 2007 as part of his emoluments in respect of a person accepting offic easa director.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 82 Mr Tucker stood down on 27 May 2009.
Other emoluments represents the cost met by the Company for travel to the UK and temporary residence for Mr Ladas, a US citizen and resident in California in connection with the performance of his duties.
The benefits are consistent with those provided to Mr Ladas prior to his appointment as an executive director.
Mr Ladas heads the Operations function of the Group, a post he has held since 2000 and he is responsible for managing the manufacture and supply of the Companys products in which capacity he is required to undertake extensive travel around the world.
The salary and fees paid respectively to Mr Chadha and Mr Banatao are from the date of appointment of 26 June 2009.
Following the decision of Mr Chadha to waive his entitlement to a cash bonus, subsequent to 9 February 2010, the Committee determined to allot Mr Chadha 16,580 ordinary shares in the Company, in the form of restricted shares, which, subject to remaining an employee as at 1 March 2011, will be transferred to Mr Chadha at 1 March 2011.
There are no further performance conditions applying to the transfer of the restricted shares and Mr Chadha may elect to hold or sell the shares on transfer at 1 March 2011.
Aggregate directors remuneration The aggregate directors remuneration was as follows: 2009 2008 $ $ Emoluments 5,225,054 3,444,270 Gains on exercise of share options 986,565 26,000 Money purchase pension contributions 273,030 240,810 6,484,649 3,711,080 Directors pension entitlements Contributions paid or accrued by the Group in respect of the directors during the year were as follows: 2009 2008 $ $ J D Y Collier 74,142 76,176 P G G Goodridge 10,645 J A J van Beurden 94,202 83,101 D D W Gardiner 78,186 46,888 C A Ladas 24,000 24,000 K Chadha 2,500 273,030 240,810 Directors share options Aggregate emoluments disclosed on page 82 do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the directors.
Details of the options exercised by directors and of the gains arising on the exercise of options in the 52 week period to 1 January 2010 and the prior period are shown below: Gains on Gains on Market value exercise exercise Name of Grant Date of Number Cost per share per share $ 2008 director description exercise exercised Note i $ J D Y Collier Founder Grant 2 March 2009 382,002 0.054 1.880 986,565 C A Ladas Performance Award 4 December 2008 11,234 0.001 1.565 26,000 Note i : The US $ gain represents the number of options exercised multiplied by the market value per share shown in Pounds Sterling and translated at the US $ Pounds Sterling exchange rate prevailing on the date of exercise.
Note ii : Numbers are adjusted to reflect changes to the share capital structure on listing in March 2004.
Note iii : Options granted to Directors under the CSOP scheme in 2004 vest after three years and have certain performance criteria attached.
The options vest in proportions from 10% 100% dependent upon the EPS achieved by the Group for the year ended 31 December 2006, the target EPS was in the range $0.17 to $0.26.
Thereafter the option may be exercised for the rest of its ten year life without further test.
The performance condition was satisfied and the options have vested.
Note iv : Options granted under the SAYE scheme vest after three years and must be exercised within 6 months of vesting date.
Note v : Options granted under the CSOP scheme vest after three years and have certain performance criteria attached.
For options to vest, the EPS growth must be greater than the growth in the RPI plus a compound 4% per annum over a fixed period of three financial years beginning in January 2005.
The performance condition th was satisfied and the options have vested.
Options expire on the 10 anniversary of the date of grant.
Note vi : Shares granted under the Share Award scheme in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 vest after three years and have certain performance conditions attached.
The shares vest in proportions from 30% to 100% dependent on the Companys TSR against a basket of comparator companies established at the start of the three year period and thereafter only if the Companys underlying financial performance has improved to the satisfaction of the Remuneration Committee, details of which shall be disclosed to shareholders in reports of the Remuneration Committee subsequent to the determination of the Committee.
Note vii : Options granted under the CSOP scheme in 2006 also vest after three years and have performance criteria attached.
No options will vest if EPS growth is below a compound 12% per annum plus RPI.
If the Companys EPS growth meets or exceeds a compound of 12% per annum plus RPI, 30% of the share options will vest.
If the Companys EPS growth meets or exceeds a compound 14% per annum plus RPI an additional 50% of the share options will vest.
If the Companys EPS growth meets or exceeds a compound 17% per annum plus RPI all options will vest.
The performance condition for the grant in 2006 has not been satisfied and therefore the options have lapsed.
Note viii : Options granted under the CSOP scheme between 1 January 2007 and 31 August 2007 also vest after three years and have performance criteria attached.
Note ix : To facilitate the recruitment of Mr van Beurden, the Company agreed to award Mr van Beurden 25,000 ordinary shares in the Company.
The award is subject to vesting after the satisfaction of conditions relating to service.
Note x : Options granted under the CSOP scheme between August 2007 and the end of 2008 also vest after three years and have performance criteria attached.
No options will vest if EPS growth is below a compound 5% per annum plus RPI.
If the Companys EPS growth is equal to compound 5% per annum plus RPI, 30% of the share options will vest.
For EPS performance above a compound 5% per annum plus RPI up to a compound 12.5% per annum plus RPI, the proportion of shares that shall vest is determined on a straight line basis pro-rata between 30% and 100%.
If the Companys EPS growth over the three year performance period exceeds a compound 12.5% per annum plus RPI, all the options vest.
Note xi : To facilitate the recruitment of Mr Gardiner, the Company agreed to award Mr Gardiner 20,000 ordinary shares in the Company.
Note xii : Awards granted under the Share Award Scheme in 2009 are subject to a three year vesting period and have performance criteria attached.
No options will vest if the compound EPS growth is less than 7.5% per annum, adjusted for RPI.
30% vests for a compound growth of 7.5% per annum, adjusted for RPI and full vesting occurs for a compound EPS growth of 15% per annum adjusted for RPI.
Share awards vest on a straight line basis for a compound EPS growth between 7.5% and 15% adjusted for RPI.
Note xiii : Grants made in 2009 under the CSOP scheme are subject to a three year vesting period and have a performance condition attached.
This is based on the relative TSR of the Company against a basket of comparator companies established at the start of the vesting period.
The shares vest in proportions from 30% to 100% dependent on the Companys TSR against that basket of comparator companies.
Note xiv : SiRF Options and Awards are replacement options rolled over from the acquisition of SiRF Technology Holdings Inc at a conversion ratio and exchange rate specified in the merger agreement.
The vesting of each of these grants is not subject to the fulfilment of performance conditions, which is consistent with the prevailing rules of the schemes under which the grants were made.
Note xv : Mr Chadha participates in an Employee Share Purchase Plan which commenced on 6 November 2009.
Mr Chadha has elected to contribute the maximum amounts as allowed under IRS rules into the plan which state that a maximum of 10% of salary can be contributed, capped at $5,000.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 1 January 2010 was 4.09 and the range during the year was 1.57 to 5.08.
This report was approved by the Board of directors and signed on its behalf by: S Giacoletto-Roggio Chairman, Remuneration Committee 9 February 2010 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 85
