com Directors Remuneration Report The Report is presented in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code and the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
The Report is divided into two sections, unaudited and audited information, in accordance with the Regulations.
The audited information commences on page 56.
The Board is responsible overall for the Groups remuneration policy and the setting of the Non-Executive Directors fees, although the task of determining and monitoring the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and agreeing the Chairmans fee level has been delegated to the Committee.
This Remuneration Report will be submitted at the 2009 Annual General Meeting for the approval of the Shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee Membership The Committee consists exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors and comprises Malcolm Diamond, Michael Redmond and Neil Warner, all of whom have served on the Committee throughout the 2008 2009 financial year.
The Committee is chaired by Malcolm Diamond and met three times during the year.
The Chief Executive attended all meetings in order to assist on matters concerning remuneration of other Senior Executives within the Group: however, the Chief Executive was not present during the part of the meetings where his own remuneration was discussed.
The attendance record of the Committee members is detailed within the Corporate Governance Report on page 44.
Advisers During the year the Committee received advice on the remuneration of Senior Executives from the Chief Executive.
Advice was also received from the Company Secretary and Hewitt New Bridge Street in relation to the operation of the Companys share-based incentive plans.
Hewitt New Bridge Street are appointed by the Committee to provide advice on Executive remuneration and long-term incentive arrangements.
Hewitt New Bridge Street has no other connection with the Company.
Responsibilities The Committee has its own terms of reference, which are approved by the Board.
These were reviewed during the year to ensure compliance with the Combined Code.
Copies can be obtained from the Company Secretary or via the Company website at www.
Malcolm Diamond and Zoe Goulding are available to Shareholders to discuss remuneration policy.
The Committee is responsible for determining, on behalf of the Board, the framework of remuneration for the Executive Directors and for ensuring and reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy.
In particular, the terms of reference authorise the Committee to: l make recommendations to the Board on Executive remuneration: l determine on behalf of the Board specific remuneration packages and conditions of employment including pension rights for Executive Directors: l determine targets for any performance related pay schemes operated by the Company: l determine the policy for and scope of any pension arrangements for the Executive Directors.
Executive Directors Remuneration Policy Dechras policy on Executive Directors remuneration is to provide remuneration packages that: l attract, retain and incentivise Executives of the calibre required to ensure that the Group is managed successfully to the benefit of Shareholders: l provide appropriate alignment between Dechras strategic goals, Shareholder returns and Executive reward: l have a competitive mix of base salary and short and long-term incentives with a significant proportion of the package determined by stretching targets linked to Dechras performance: l are consistent with corporate governance best practice guidelines so long as the Committee believes that compliance with such guidelines is in the best interests of Shareholders.
51 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Review Every two years the Committee obtains an independent review of its Executive Directors remuneration packages to assess whether they are consistent with the Companys remuneration policy.
The last review was sought in 2008 and details were provided in last years Report and Accounts.
Existing remuneration arrangements comprised: l Salary: Ian Page 350,000, Simon Evans 220,000, Ed Torr 210,000 l Pension worth 14% of salary l Sundry benefits in kind, including fully expensed car and private medical insurance l Annual Bonus worth up to 100% of salary based on profit targets and personal objectives l Annual share awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP worth up to 100% of salary based on Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to other FTSE Small Cap companies assuming that an underpin condition based on the Companys adjusted diluted earnings per share performance has been satisfied Base Salary When setting the Executive Directors remuneration packages the Committee always considers i remuneration packages payable to employees employed in comparable companies and ii pay increases within the Group more generally.
Taking into account the current economic climate and the pay increases across the Group, the Committee has agreed that base salaries should be increased by 2% with effect from 1 July 2009 to: Ian Page 357,000, Simon Evans 224,400 and Ed Torr 214,200.
This equates to a 2% pay increase and is aligned with the pay policy adopted throughout the Group for the 2009 2010 financial year.
Pensions The Company operates a Group Stakeholder personal pension scheme which has been effective since 1 July 2005.
The Company will continue to contribute 14% of salary on behalf of the Executive Directors.
Benefits in Kind The Executive Directors receive other benefits, including the use of a fully expensed car, medical cover and a life assurance scheme.
Annual Bonus The Company operates annual incentive arrangements for certain employees, including Executive Directors.
The Executive Bonus Scheme rewards Executive Directors for achieving operating efficiencies and profitable growth in the relevant year by reference to challenging but achievable operational targets determined at the beginning of the financial year.
For the year under review, the financial measure applicable to the Executive Bonus Scheme was the achievement of budgeted adjusted profit before tax with on target achievement of budget providing a bonus equivalent to 36% of base salary.
A maximum bonus of 90% of base salary is payable on the achievement of 110% of budget for the year with a further 10% of base salary being payable on the achievement of personal objectives.
The maximum award available to all Executive Directors for the 2008 2009 financial year is therefore 100% of base salary.
Actual performance equated to a bonus of 82% of base salary including the achievement of personal objectives resulting in a total payment to Executive Directors of 639,600.
Executive bonuses for the year ended 30 June 2010 are to be calculated in line with the previous years bonus scheme: l Annual cash bonus potential up to 100% of salary.
l Up to 10% of salary can be earned based on the achievement of personal objectives.
The personal objectives of the Chief Executive will be set by the Chairman, and those of the other Executive Directors will be set by the Chief Executive.
This element of the bonus is payable at the sole discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
l Up to 90% of salary can be earned based on the achievement of Group budget set at the beginning of the financial year with payments as outlined in the chart on the following page.
com 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 90 95 100 105 110 115 % achievement of budgeted adjusted profit before tax Long-Term Incentive Plan A new Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP was approved by Shareholders at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the LTIP provides a clear link between the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the creation of value for Shareholders by rewarding the Executive Directors for the Companys performance in terms of relative Total Shareholder Return TSR.
The LTIP allows the Executive Directors and selected Senior Executives of the Company to receive a conditional award of performance shares worth up to 150% of base salary 200% of salary in exceptional circumstances.
Options granted to the Executive Directors on 19 November 2008 were granted to a value equivalent to 100% of their base salary.
Vesting of performance shares will normally occur provided that: a the participant is still employed by the Group at the end of the three year vesting period: and b to the extent that the pre-set performance targets have been satisfied over the three year performance period which will run from the start of the financial year within which the award is granted.
Performance targets for the grant during the financial year ending 30 June 2009 are: 1 An underpin condition based on the Companys adjusted diluted earnings per share performance no awards will vest if the Companys adjusted diluted earnings per share has not grown by at least RPI 3% per annum over the performance period.
2 The Companys TSR performance assuming that the underpin is achieved, vesting of the awards will be determined by the Companys TSR performance compared to the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap sector at the start of the performance period.
The TSR will be calculated by comparing average performance over three months prior to the start and end of the performance period.
Vesting will be on the following basis: TSR Performance Vesting Percentage Below Median 0% Median 25% Between Median and Upper Quartile Pro-rata vesting based on the Companys ranking in the comparator group Upper Quartile 100% Executive Incentive Plan EIP Prior to the adoption of the LTIP in November 2008, the Company operated an Executive Incentive Plan.
No further options can be granted under the EIP: however, a number of prior year grants have yet to be exercised subject to the achievement of performance conditions and confirmation from the Remuneration Committee that the underlying financial performance of the Company has been satisfactory during the relevant measurement period.
Details of the options yet to be exercised pursuant to the EIP and the attaching performance conditions can be found on page 57 of this report.
53 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Bonus earned % of salary Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Directors Remuneration Report continued Company Share Option Scheme and Savings Related Share Option Scheme The Company also operates an Approved Share Option Scheme, an Unapproved Share Option Scheme and a Savings Related Share Options Scheme SAYE.
Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the SAYE scheme but are not entitled to participate in the Approved Share Option Scheme or the Unapproved Share Option Scheme by reason of their participation in the LTIP and EIP.
Share Ownership Guideline In line with best practice, there are formal share ownership guidelines for Executive Directors requiring them to retain at least half of any share awards vesting as shares after paying any tax due on the shares until they have a holding of Dechra shares worth at least 100% of their base salary.
Currently, all of the Executive Directors shareholdings equate to over 100% of their base salary.
Contracts of Services During the year under review each of the Executive Directors entered into a new rolling service contract.
The service contracts contain details regarding remuneration, restrictions and disciplinary matters.
Details of Directors service contracts and notice periods are set out below.
Notice Period Name Commencement date Director Company Michael Redmond 25 April 2001 12 months 12 months Ian Page 1 September 2008 6 months 12 months Simon Evans 6 February 2009 6 months 12 months Ed Torr 6 February 2009 6 months 12 months Malcolm Diamond 1 July 2008 12 months 12 months Neil Warner 2 May 2003 12 months 12 months There are no expiry dates applicable to either Executive or Non-Executive Directors service contracts.
The Company may, in its absolute discretion at any time after written notice has been given by either party, lawfully terminate the service contract by paying to the Director an amount equal to his basic salary entitlement for the unexpired period of notice subject to a deduction at source of income tax and National Insurance contributions.
In the event that the service contract is terminated before the end of any financial year, the Director shall not be entitled to any bonus in respect of that financial year.
Non-Executive Directors have a service contract for an initial 12 month period which is thereafter terminated by either party giving 12 months notice.
Non-Executive Directors compensation is confined to 12 months remuneration.
Individual Directors eligibility for the various elements of compensation is set out below: Name Salary Bonus Benefits Michael Redmond 12 months n a n a Ian Page 12 months nil 12 months Simon Evans 12 months nil 12 months Ed Torr 12 months nil 12 months Malcolm Diamond 12 months n a n a Neil Warner 12 months n a n a 54 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9
