Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors remuneration report 77 Summary of current remuneration policy for executive directors A breakdown of the reward programmes in which Diageos executive directors participate, the remuneration strategy that they support and the policy governing their execution is detailed in the table below: What Why How Base salary Reflects the value of the individual, their skills Reviewed annually with changes usually taking effect and experience, and performance.
Benchmarked against the top 30 companies in the FTSE 100 excluding financial services businesses.
Generally positioned at the median of the relevant market or, in exceptional circumstances, positioned above median if justified by the requirement to recruit or retain key executives.
Annual Incentivises year on year delivery of short Targets set by reference to the annual operating plan.
Level of payout determined by Diageos overall bonus financial performance.
Bonus payout historically based 100% on financial measures.
Effective from 1 July 2009, based 80% on financial measures and 20% on specific individual business objectives.
Up to 100% of salary earned for on target performance with a maximum of 200% of salary payable for outstanding performance.
Share options Incentivises three-year earnings growth A discretionary annual grant of market price share SESOP 2008 above a minimum threshold.
options subject to a performance test based on absolute annual compound growth in adjusted EPS Provides focus on increasing Diageos share over three years.
price over the medium to longer term.
Stretching growth targets set annually by the remuneration committee.
Maximum annual grant of 375% of salary.
Threshold vesting level of 30% October 2008 awards and 25% September 2009 awards, with pro rata vesting up to 100% maximum.
Performance share Incentivises three-year total shareholder A discretionary annual award of shares subject to a awards PSP 2008 return relative to a selected peer group of performance test based on TSR performance against companies.
Maximum annual award of 375% of salary.
Provides focus on delivering superior returns Threshold vesting of 25% for median performance up to shareholders.
to vesting of 100% for position 1 or 2 relative to a TSR peer group.
Notional dividends accrue on awards, delivered as shares or cash at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
Pension Provides competitive Accrual rate of 1 30 of pensionable pay.
Maximum pension is restricted to 2 3 of final remuneration minus retained benefits.
Normal retirement age NRA is 62.
Subject to election, benefits in excess of the lifetime allowance LTA provided through unfunded nonregistered arrangement.
Diageo Annual Report 2009 78 Directors remuneration report Base salary ensure that items such as exceptional items and movements in The summary table on the previous page sets out the policy on exchange rates are excluded from year on year comparisons of base salary for the executive directors.
Base salaries are generally performance.
Options will only vest when stretching adjusted set around the median of the relevant market for each role and EPS targets are achieved.
Vesting is on a pro rata basis currently Governance take account of level of experience, performance and the external ranging from a threshold level of 25% to a maximum level of 100%.
71 Board of directors and market.
The remuneration committee also has regard to pay Given the recent changes in the external environment and executive committee conditions throughout the company when deciding annual their impact on global growth rates, the adjusted EPS growth 74 Directors salary increases for the executive directors.
targets for the awards to be made in September 2009 have been remuneration report The table Summary of salary reviews for executive directors set at a range of 3% compound annual growth for threshold 86 Corporate governance report in the remuneration summary at the beginning of this report vesting to 7% compound annual growth for maximum vesting, 94 Directors report shows the salary increases that were applied during the equivalent to 9% growth and 23% growth over a three-year performance year.
In light of current economic conditions and period for threshold and maximum vesting, respectively.
In light focus on cost constraint, no salary increases will be made in of these adjusted targets, threshold vesting was reduced from calendar year 2009.
The adjusted EPS growth target for the 2008 grant of Annual performance bonus options to vest in full is 10% per annum compound which is The annual bonus plan is designed to incentivise year on year equivalent to 33% growth over a three-year period.
The threshold delivery of short term performance goals that are determined when options start to vest is when adjusted EPS grows by an by pre-set stretching targets and measures agreed by the average of 6% compound per annum, equivalent to 19% over remuneration committee with reference to the annual operating a three-year period, at which point 30% of the award would vest.
The remuneration committee determines the level of The maximum annual grant under the plan is 375% of performance achieved based on Diageos overall financial base salary.
However, the remuneration committee has the performance at the financial year end.
The business results for the discretion to grant awards in excess of the maximum limit in year ended 30 June 2009 are described in the Business review.
The targets for the year ended 30 June 2009 were a September combination of measures including profit before exceptional 2009 grants items and tax, net sales and free cash flow.
Profit and sales were Adjusted EPS growth pa % vesting below target but free cash flow targets were exceeded, therefore 7% 100% the overall level of performance achieved resulted in an actual 3% 7% 25% 100% performance bonus paid equating to 44% of base salary.
The pro rata actual bonus payments received by the executive directors are 3% 25% shown in this report in the table Directors remuneration for Less than 3% 0% the year ended 30 June 2009.
For the year ending 30 June 2010, the remuneration September 2008 grants committee has introduced specific individual business objectives Adjusted EPS growth pa % vesting as a weighted measure in addition to the existing financial 10% 100% measures.
This new measure will focus on business objectives, derived from a set of collective business goals, that are specific 6% 10% 30% 100% to the executives particular area of accountability and will be pro rata focused on supporting the long term growth of the business.
6% 30% Less than 6% 0% Long term incentive plans LTIPS Current long term incentives comprise a combination of share In the year ended 30 June 2009, the adjusted EPS measure used options under the SESOP and performance share awards under in the SESOP 2008 has grown by 2.6%.
This represents the first the PSP and are designed to incentivise executive directors and years growth of the three-year performance cycle for the SESOP senior managers to strive for long term sustainable performance.
award made in October 2008 and is significantly below target, These awards are made on an annual basis with the level of reflecting the challenging economic conditions of the last year.
award considered each year in light of individual and business performance.
Awards made under both sets of plans are subject Senior executive share option plan 1999 SESOP 1999 to performance conditions normally measured over a three-year The executive directors currently hold unvested options granted period.
The regular review of the performance measures and the under an expired SESOP 1999 with the final grant under this plan vesting schedule used in each plan are designed to ensure that due to vest in September 2010.
These options are subject to the LTIPs continue to support the business objectives and are satisfying a performance condition based on adjusted EPS in line with current best practice.
All of Diageos share plans growth relative to RPI over a three-year period.
The vesting are operated within the ABI dilution guidelines for shareschedule is shown in the table below: based remuneration.
% option grant Adjusted EPS growth relative to RPI released Senior executive share option plan 2008 SESOP 2008 RPI 15% 100% Options granted under SESOP 2008 are subject to a performance RPI 12% 50% condition based on compound annual growth in adjusted EPS over a three-year period, with growth targets set by the Less than RPI 12% 0% companys remuneration committee for each grant.
For the purpose of the SESOP, an underlying measure of EPS is used to Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors remuneration report 79 Performance share plan PSP 2008 Long-term incentive plans and change of control Under this plan, participants are granted a discretionary, In the event of a change of control and at the remuneration conditional right to receive shares.
All conditional rights awarded committees discretion, outstanding PSP and TSR plan awards vest after a three-year period subject to achievement of two would be released and outstanding share options would performance tests.
The primary performance test is a comparison become exercisable based on the extent to which the relevant of Diageos three-year TSR the percentage growth in Diageos performance conditions had been met since the initial award share price assuming all dividends and capital distributions are or grant respectively.
reinvested with the TSR of a peer group of international drinks and fast moving consumer goods FMCG companies.
TSR All employee share plans calculations are converted to a common currency US dollars.
The executive directors are eligible to participate in the UK The second performance test requires that there has been an HM Revenue & Customs approved share incentive and underlying improvement in Diageos three-year financial sharesave plans that Diageo operates on the same terms for performance, typically measured by an adjusted EPS measure, all eligible employees.
for the remuneration committee to recommend the release of awards.
The maximum annual award under the plan is 375% of Share ownership salary.
However, the remuneration committee has discretion to Senior executives are currently required to build up significant grant awards in excess of this maximum in exceptional holdings of shares in Diageo from their own resources over a circumstances.
Notional dividends accrue on awards and are defined period of time.
Full participation in the share option and paid out either in cash or shares in accordance with the vesting share award plans is conditional upon meeting this requirement.
schedule shown in the table below.
This policy reflects Diageos belief that its most senior leaders should also be shareholders.
With effect from 1 January 2009, Total shareholder return plan TSR 1998 the chief executive and chief financial officer are required to hold The executive directors hold unvested performance shares company shares equivalent to 300% and 250% of their base awarded under the expired TSR plan with the final award under salary, respectively.
The current status of their shareholding this plan due to vest in September 2010.
As with the current PSP, requirement is shown in the shareholding table in the the proportion vesting is subject to TSR performance relative to remuneration summary at the beginning of this report.
Outstanding awards under this expired plan are subject to the vesting schedule below.
Notional Pension provision dividends do not accrue on awards made under the expired NC Rose and PS Walsh are members of the Diageo Pension TSR plan.
They currently accrue pension rights at the rate of onethirtieth of pensionable pay each year.
Bonus payments and Vesting schedules and TSR peer group for the PSP and the other benefits are not included in pensionable pay.
The pension TSR plan at normal retirement age NRA may not exceed two-thirds of final remuneration minus retained benefits.
Subject to the TSR 1998 consent of the company, no actuarial reduction is currently PSP 2008 expired a TSR ranking % vesting % vesting applied upon early retirement on or after age 57.
Pensions in 1st or 2nd 100% 150% payment are increased each year in line with increases in the 3rd 95% 142% RPI, subject to a maximum of 5% per year and a minimum of 3% per year.
4th 75% 114% On death in service, a lump sum of four times pensionable 5th 65% 94% pay becomes payable, together with a spouses pension of two- 6th 55% 83% thirds of the executive directors prospective pension.
Upon 7th 45% 67% death after retirement, a spouses pension of two-thirds of the 8th 25% 35% executive directors pension before commutation is payable.
9th or below 0% 0% The executive directors make employee contributions of 6% of pensionable pay.
b TSR peer group As a result of changes introduced by the UK Finance Act AB InBev HJ Heinz 2004 affecting the taxation of pensions from 6 April 2006, Brown-Forman Nestl executive directors were offered the option of having benefits in Cadbury PepsiCo excess of their lifetime allowance LTA provided by an unfunded Carlsberg Pernod Ricard non-registered arrangement.
Both executive directors have Coca-Cola Procter & Gamble opted to have part of their benefits provided from this unfunded Colgate-Palmolive SABMiller arrangement, if appropriate.
Total pension benefits remain Groupe Danone Unilever subject to the HM Revenue & Customs limits that were in force Heineken on 5 April 2006.
Notes a An adjustment was made to grant levels to ensure that broadly the same payout as a percentage of salary would be achieved under both old and new schedules.
b The TSR peer group was reviewed during the year following the takeover of Anheuser-Busch.
Following this review, the remuneration committee concluded that the three-year TSR performance for current and future awards would be measured on the basis of a reduced peer group of 16 companies including Diageo.
