Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Report on directors remuneration 2 7 8 43 73 148 Report on directors remuneration value.
The key elements of The remuneration committee: earn commensurate rewards for remuneration arrangements going members, role and frequency of outstanding performance, leading forward are summarised below.
meetings to long-term shareholder value Details of the committee members, creation: The remuneration committee is the scope of their role and frequency of apply demanding performance mindful of the current environment and meetings can be found in the corporate conditions to deliver sustained especially the need to link pay closely governance statement.
profitable growth in all our to performance.
In light of current businesses, thereby aligning economic conditions and the desire to Working with advisers incentives with shareholders link executive salaries more closely to In making its decisions, the committee interests, setting these conditions policy elsewhere in the organisation, consults with the Chairman, the with due regard to actual and coupled with the committees desire to Chief Executive Officer, the Group expected market conditions: ensure a greater emphasis on variable HR Director and the Global Head pay going forward, the committee has of Reward who are invited to attend provide a balanced portfolio of decided to freeze base pay levels for meetings of the committee as incentives - both cash and sharethe coming year for executive directors appropriate.
The Chief Financial based - which align both shortand senior management.
In the case of Officer is also consulted in respect term one year and longer-term the chief executive officer CEO this of performance conditions attaching three year performance such that means his base pay will be frozen for a to short and long-term incentive sustainable growth and value are second consecutive year.
delivered for our shareholders: The revised arrangements take into The committee has access to drive accountability and account the need to align incentives independent consultants to ensure transparency and align remuneration with market practice and conditions that it receives objective advice.
with the interests of shareholders: and to strike the right balance between In 2007, Deloitte LLP Deloitte and short-term and long-term performance.
were appointed by the committee as deliver competitive benefits to The proposed incentive arrangements advisers and they continued to act underpin the other components of will provide a stronger focus on during the year under review.
absolute share price growth through also provided unrelated advisory and the use of options and delivery of tax services to the Group during the Consistent with the policy, the all long-term incentives in shares, year.
Kepler Associates Kepler were committee compares the Experian balanced with relative share price also appointed by the committee in remuneration arrangements with growth in the Performance Share 2007 and, during the year under review, those of other relevant organisations Plan PSP and a balance between provided advice and valuation data and companies of similar size and internal and external measures for Experians current and proposed scope to Experian.
In addition, by executive remuneration arrangements arrangements are also reviewed in encouraging executives to invest in and and also provided independent advice light of changing market conditions, hold Experian shares through the coon target calibration for the short and which have become increasingly more investment plan CIP arrangements, long-term incentive plans.
Linklaters challenging over the year under review.
their interests will be further aligned LLP provided legal advice in respect of Performance-related incentives are with those of our shareholders over the share plan design and interpretation.
targeted at upper quartile levels for longer term.
outstanding performance to produce Remuneration philosophy a highly leveraged package if the The proposed total compensation Experians remuneration philosophy Groups growth objectives are attained.
package has a similar expected value is that reward should be used to drive Experian is committed to performanceto the arrangements currently in place business performance.
In this regard, related pay at all levels within the and is driven by the need to replace the the remuneration committee aims to organisation.
reinvestment plan which was a one off have in place a remuneration policy for plan and will cease next year.
Experian which is consistent with its The committee undertook a review of business objectives and is designed to: remuneration arrangements during the Further details of how remuneration year.
This review concluded that, while pay market-competitive base salary arrangements will operate going the key elements of our arrangements levels: forward are set out in the following are still aligned with the principles of pages.
provide competitive  policy and long-term related compensation which strategy, certain changes should be influences performance and helps made to better align arrangements attract and retain executives with the creation of future shareholder by providing the opportunity to Experian Annual Report 2009 59 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued 2009 10 incentive arrangements Remuneration of for the CEO executive directors In recognition of his personal Each element of reward is important performance and the continued and has a specific role in achieving valuable contribution Don Robert the aims of the remuneration makes to Experian and to continue philosophy.
The combined potential to incentivise him to create future remuneration from annual bonus and shareholder value, the remuneration share-based incentives outweighs committee proposes to make awards the other elements and is subject worth 300% of salary in face value to performance conditions, thereby under each of the PSP and Executive placing much of it at risk.
In fair value Share Option Plan ESOP in the terms, the proportion of the total coming year.
These changes will remuneration excluding pension and position our CEOs remuneration benefits of the CEO which is variable highly competitively against UK and is approximately 80% as illustrated.
US financial services and other Fair value of CEO remuneration US-listed companies of similar size to Experian.
The committee believes the approach taken is appropriate for a CEO of Don Roberts calibre and that it is appropriate for his overall remuneration to be highly variable, with a strong link to the Groups performance.
As such, his base salary during 2009 10 will continue to be Fixed 20% frozen at the level set in 2007.
Variable 80% The future level of any awards for The remuneration committee selects the CEO will be determined by the performance measures that are remuneration committee on an annual designed to be aligned with the basis, taking account of the prevailing Groups strategic goals and that circumstances at the time.
are transparent to directors and shareholders.
Each element These proposals are within the of remuneration is designed to parameters of the current rules but in support the achievement of different line with our commitment to engage corporate objectives as outlined in the with shareholders, the committee following table.
consulted with key shareholders on the proposed changes.
Service contracts Each executive director has a rolling service contract which can be terminated by the Group giving twelve months notice.
In the event of termination of the directors contract, any compensation payment is calculated in accordance with normal legal principles, including the application of mitigation to the extent appropriate in the circumstances of the case.
60 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Report on directors remuneration 2 7 8 43 73 148 Purpose and link to Element remuneration philosophy Delivery Key Features Base salary Reflects the competitive In cash Based on individual contribution market salary level for the Pensionable Reviewed annually individual and their role Takes account of personal contribution, skill and performance Annual bonus Rewards the achievement of Cash deferred shares Performance measure is 1 co-investment plan annual financial targets Annual Benchmark PBT Participants are eligible to Not pensionable invest bonus in Experian shares with the opportunity to earn matching shares.
Aligns with shareholder interests through delivery in shares Clearly links pay and performance and encourages long-term commitment Experian Aligns with shareholder Shares, subject Performance measures are: performance interests through delivery of to performance Relative total shareholder return share plan shares conditions measured over a three-year Rewards sustained growth Not pensionable period, subject to satisfactory in shareholder value and overall financial performance 1 out-performance compared Growth in Benchmark PBT over to peers a three-year period Acts as a retention tool Experian share Direct link to value creation Shares under Performance measure is 1 option plan through share price growth option, subject Benchmark EPS growth over a as major objective to performance three-year period Aligns with shareholder conditions interests through delivery of Not pensionable shares Acts as a retention tool Sharesave or Opportunity for employees Shares under Employees must be in equivalent to invest in Experian shares option bought with employment on a qualifying date over 3 or 5 year savings accumulated savings in order to participate period at the end of the savings period Pension To provide market Post retirement Defined benefit competitive post-retirement payments Defined contribution including benefits US 401k arrangements 1.
A ll references in the report on directors remuneration to PBT or EPS refer to Benchmark PBT or Benchmark EPS respectively.
Experian Annual Report 2009 61 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued to retain a notional earnings cap for to deliver exceptional results to Fixed remuneration its existing and future employees, with shareholders.
Base salary and benefits the exception of new senior executives To assess the appropriate market who are pensioned on full basic salary Experians underlying performance salary for a role, external remuneration up to the Lifetime Allowance.
The continued to be strong in 2008 09 in consultants provide benchmark data Experian Pension Scheme was closed what was an extremely challenging to the remuneration committee.
to new members on 31 December 2008, business environment for both Executive directors salaries are subject only to exceptions approved by Experian and our clients.
The bonuses benchmarked against a mid-market the remuneration committee on a case payable to executive directors level of executive directors from the by case basis.
in respect of this financial year companies in the FTSE 100 Index and are representative of this strong other global comparators, reflecting The Group has put security in place performance in uncertain market the markets from which Experian for the unfunded pension entitlements conditions.
These include, but are of UK executives affected by the not limited to, international companies earnings cap, by establishing Secured For annual bonuses earned in respect of a similar size and geographic scope, Unfunded Retirement Benefits of the 2008 09 financial year, executive companies in the financial services Schemes SURBS.
Further details directors have been offered their first and related industries and companies are provided under the disclosure of opportunity since the demerger of with significant operations in the same the arrangements for each director.
Experian and Home Retail Group from markets as Experian for example, GUS plc in October 2006 demerger North America.
Before making a In the US, Experian provides a Personal to defer receipt of some or all of their final decision on individual salary Investment Plan 401k which all US bonus and invest it in Experian shares awards, the committee assesses each employees, including directors, are able invested shares under the Experian directors contribution to the business, to join.
This is a defined contribution CIP.
The number of invested shares to reflect individual performance and arrangement to which participants are acquired on behalf of the executive will experience.
able to contribute up to 50% of salary, be matched with an additional award up to a maximum salary and participant of shares matching shares on a 1:1 In addition to base salary, executive contribution limit established by the basis.
The release of these matching directors receive certain benefits-inIRS each calendar year.
shares to participants will be subject kind including a car or car allowance, to the achievement of a performance private health cover and life assurance.
Variable remuneration condition, being growth in profit These are set at market norms for each Annual bonus plan and before tax PBT of 3% per annum on role.
co-investment plan average for the three financial years Annual bonuses are awarded for beginning with the 2009 10 financial No executive director received a base achieving profit growth targets.
The committee believes that salary increase at 1 April 2009.
The CEO The committee believes that linking PBT is an appropriate measure as it has not received an increase since 1 incentives to profit growth helps to is aligned with Experians core growth April 2007 notwithstanding the Groups reinforce Experians growth strategy.
The release of invested shares strong performance over this period.
During the year, Kepler advised and matching shares will be deferred on the calibration of targets using for three years.
If an executive resigns Pensions benchmarks that reflect stretching during the three-year period he she will The retirement age for directors is 60 internal and external expectations.
forfeit the right to the matching shares under arrangements which broadly Benchmarks include: broker earnings and the associated dividends.
The provide a pension of two thirds of estimates: earnings estimates for executive would be entitled to retain final salary, ill health and dependants competitors: straight-line profit growth any invested shares.
pensions in addition to life assurance consistent with median upper quartile cover during the period of employment.
shareholder returns over the next three 2009 10 bonus Incentive payments such as annual to five years: latest projections for the The maximum bonus which may bonuses are not pensionable.
current year: budget: strategic plan: be earned by executive directors in and long-term financial goals.
the coming year will remain at 200% The Group has had arrangements of base salary.
Deferral of annual in place for a number of years which 2008 09 bonus bonus into the CIP will continue to were designed to ensure that UK The maximum bonus opportunity for be voluntary, but it is intended that a directors who were affected by the 1989 executive directors is 200% of base minimum of 50% of any earned bonus HM Revenue and Customs earnings salary.
However, this level of annual must be deferred by any executive who cap were placed in broadly the same bonus is only payable if Experians chooses to participate in the plan.
position as those who were not.
With financial performance surpasses the agreement of the trustees of the stretching financial targets designed Deferral of up to 100% of earned bonus pension scheme, the Group decided will still be possible.
62 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Report on directors remuneration 2 7 8 43 73 148 In addition, it is intended to increase this part of the award will vest, rising Performance conditions for the maximum match under the CIP on a straight-line basis to 100% of this future awards under the Experian from 1:1 to up to 2:1.
The CIP is used as part of the award vesting if PBT grows performance share plan will be decided part of a suite of long-term incentive at a rate of 14% per annum.
For awards to be arrangements and the increase in made in 2009 10, it is intended that potential match has been factored The remaining 50% of the award will 75% of any award will be subject to a into market-based remuneration vest according to the performance of growth in PBT performance condition benchmarking that has been carried Experians total shareholder return and 25% will be subject to a relative out on behalf of the committee.
The fair TSR defined as share price TSR performance condition.
This is to value of total remuneration, including movement plus reinvested dividends ensure that greater line of sight exists the increased match, remains within relative to the following group of peer between participating executives and competitive levels.
companies as set at the award date: the performance measures employed.
For the element of an award which The match of 1:1 will be awarded for Acxiom is subject to the PBT performance the achievement of a target level of Alliance Data Systems condition, 25% will vest for growth in growth in PBT, increasing on a straight Bisys Group PBT of 4% per annum on average rising line basis to up to a 2:1 match for the Capita Group to 100% vesting for growth in PBT achievement of stretching levels of Choicepoint of 8% per annum on average, which performance.
The final targets will be Dun & Bradstreet is expected to be broadly equivalent determined shortly before the awards Equifax to median and upper quartile are made in June 2010 and will be fully Fair Isaac performance respectively.
For the TSR disclosed at the appropriate time.
Fidelity National Financial element of the awards, vesting will be However, the committee undertakes Fimalac according to the percentage extent to to ensure that any targets, whilst they First American which Experians TSR outperforms the must be seen as achievable to retain First Data TSR of the FTSE 100 Index.
25% of the and motivate executives during the Fiserv award would vest at threshold, rising deferral period, must be sufficiently Global Payments to 100% where Experian outperforms stretching to deliver significant Harte-Hanks the FTSE 100 Index by at least 25% over shareholder value.
IAC Interactive Corp the three-year performance period.
Moodys This equates to approximately 7.7% Experian performance share plan Reuters Group per annum.
In addition, vesting of these Experian PSP Thomson awards will be subject to satisfactory The Experian PSP was approved Total System Services return on capital employed ROCE by GUS plc shareholders at the performance.
Extraordinary General Meeting EGM This bespoke comparator group held on 29 August 2006.
An initial award consists of Experians main was made to participants, including competitors in the business areas the executive directors, on 11 October and countries in which the Group 2006.
Performance shares are free operates.
This part of the award will Experian shares for which no exercise not vest if Experians TSR is below price is payable.
Shares are allocated the median return for the comparator subject to a performance condition group.
Once Experian achieves median which is measured over a three-year performance, 25% of this portion performance period with a five-year of the award may vest, rising on a vesting period.
Dividend equivalents straight-line basis to 100% of this part accrue on these awards.
of the award vesting for upper quartile performance or better.
For the above demerger awards granted in October 2006, the performance condition is in two separate parts: 50% of the award is subject to achievement against a sliding scale of growth in PBT, which the committee considers to be an appropriate measure as this represents one of the key drivers of the business.
The threshold for vesting is growth in PBT of 7% per annum at which 25% of Experian Annual Report 2009 63 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued Experian share option plan Value of 100 invested in GUS Experian and the FTSE 100 The Experian share option plan was on 31 March 2001 approved by GUS plc shareholders at the EGM held on 29 August 2006.
This 250 plan seeks to align shareholder and participant interests through share 200 price growth and the employment of a stretching performance condition.
150 For awards to be granted to executive 100 directors in the next financial year, options will vest subject to FTSE 100 Index 50 the achievement of a stretching performance condition, being growth in 0 earnings per share EPS.
25% of an March March March March March March March March March award will vest for EPS growth of 4% 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 per annum rising to 100% vesting for Performance as GUS to 6 October 2006 EPS growth of 8% per annum.
Performance as Experian from 6 October 2006 In addition, vesting of these awards will be subject to satisfactory ROCE performance.
Value of 100 invested in GUS Experian and the FTSE 100 For each of the long-term incentive on 31 March 2004 plans, external consultants will be used to calculate whether, and the extent 200 to which, the performance conditions have been met.
150 FTSE 100 Index Experian Sharesave All executive directors and employees 100 of Experian and any participating subsidiaries in which sharesave or a 50 local equivalent is operated are eligible to participate if they are employed 0 by Experian at a qualifying date.
March March March March March March Sharesave provides an opportunity for 04 05 06 07 08 09 employees to save a regular monthly amount, over either three or five years Performance as GUS to 6 October 2006 which, at the end of the savings period, Performance as Experian from 6 October 2006 may be used to purchase Experian shares under option for up to 20% below market value at the date of grant.
Meeting obligations under The above graphs show that, at 31 share-based incentives March 2009, a hypothetical 100 Performance graph Obligations under Experians employee invested in GUS and subsequently, The committee has chosen to illustrate share plans may be met using either Experian would have generated a the TSR for GUS plc until demerger shares purchased in the market or, total return of 180 compared with a and Experian plc against the FTSE 100 except for rolled-over awards under return of 83 if invested in the FTSE Index for the period since listing on certain GUS schemes, newly issued on 31 March 2001 and a total return of 11 October 2006 to 31 March 2009.
The approach during the 120 compared with a return of 105 if FTSE 100 Index is the most appropriate year has been to use a combination invested on 31 March 2004. index against which TSR should of newly issued shares and shares be measured, as it is a widely used previously purchased by the employee With respect to Responsible and understood index of leading UK trusts.
Following a recent review it Investment Disclosure, the committee companies.
has been decided that for the time is satisfied that environmental, social being all awards will be satisfied by and governance risks are not raised the purchase of shares or from shares by the incentive structure for senior previously purchased by the employee management and do not inadvertently trusts.
The policy will remain under motivate irresponsible behaviour.
64 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Report on directors remuneration 2 7 8 43 73 148 The fees of non-executive directors Shareholding guideline will next be reviewed in late 2009.
Fees The committee believes that it is are reviewed in the light of market important that executives should build practice in FTSE 100 companies and a significant shareholding to align their anticipated number of days worked, interests with those of shareholders.
The fees Therefore, the committee has which applied for the year under review established guidelines under which and which have not been increased the CEO should hold the equivalent of since November 2006 are given in the two times his base salary in Experian table below.
plc shares and other executive directors, one times their base salary, Experian requires its non-executive including shares held under the CIP directors to build up a holding in and the reinvestment plan.
Each of the companys shares equal to their the executive directors meets these annual fee.
One quarter of their guidelines.
annual fee is used to purchase shares in the company each year until they Non-executive directors reach this holding.
Any tax liability remuneration policy arising from these arrangements is The Boards policy on non-executive the responsibility of the individual directors remuneration is that: director: such shares are included Fees should reflect individual in the table of directors interests.
responsibilities and membership of Non-executive directors do not Board committees: participate in executive share plans or other employee share arrangements.
Remuneration should be in line Non-executives do not have service with recognised best practice and contracts but each has a letter of sufficient to attract, motivate and appointment.
No non-executive retain high calibre non-executives: directors letter of appointment provides for any termination payment.
Remuneration should be a Each appointment is for a renewable combination of cash fees paid three-year term but may be terminated quarterly and Experian shares by either party on one months written bought annually in the first quarter notice.
of the financial year until the nonexecutive directors individual shareholding requirement is met, see below : The use of Experian shares in the package helps align the interests of non-executive directors with those of shareholders: Non-executive directors do not receive any benefits in kind with the exception of the Chairman who has the use of a company car and private healthcare.
Base Fee 106,154 Senior Independent Director 19,437 Chair of audit committee 31,398 Chair of remuneration committee 23,922 Experian Annual Report 2009 65 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued The information set out in the remainder of this report has been subject to audit.
Annual remuneration The following table shows an analysis of the emoluments of the individual directors for the year ended 31 March 2009.
Annual bonuses shown relate to the year ended 31 March 2009.
Salary and Annual 1 2 fees bonus Benefits Total 2009 Total 2008 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Chairman 3 John Peace 450 18 468 477 Executive directors 4 5 Don Robert US$1,400 US$2,370 US$1,018 US$4,788 US$3,741 4 Paul Brooks 460 779 25 1,264 955 6 Non-executive directors Fabiola Arredondo 131 131 136 Laurence Danon 119 119 107 Roger Davis 143 143 131 Sean FitzPatrick 92 92 107 Alan Jebson 162 162 162 Sir Alan Rudge 138 138 126 7 David Tyler 119 119 935 The following shares were purchased for the non-executive directors on 2 July 2008 in line with the shareholding guidelines for non-executive directors described above.
The non-executive directors not listed below already meet the shareholding guidelines.
The value reported below is included within the remuneration reported in the above table.
No of Value shares Fabiola Arredondo 16 57 Laurence Danon 3,903 13,904 Alan Jebson 27 96 Sir Alan Rudge 4,524 16,117 Notes: 1.
Non-executive directors receive an additional fee of 5,981 per trip to attend board meetings where such attendance involves inter-continental travel from their home location.
Benefits to executive directors include life insurance, private healthcare, company car and fuel allowance where applicable.
Don Robert also receives an annual expatriate allowance of 550,000 and will do so for the duration of his assignment to the UK.
A pro-rated figure in respect of the year ended 31 March 2008 was included in his total remuneration for that year.
The figures for Paul Brooks for the year ended 31 March 2008 included a one-off payment in respect of his relocation to the UK.
John Peace is not eligible for a performance bonus, pension contributions or further long-term incentive awards but continues to receive a company car benefit and coverage under the Groups private healthcare arrangements.
Experian plc pays directors fees to Don Robert and Paul Brooks of 106,154 per annum in respect of their services as directors of Experian plc.
Such fees form part of, and are not additional to, the remuneration set out in the table.
During the year under review, Don Robert served as a non-executive director of First Advantage Corporation for which he received a fee of US$69,000 2008: US$53,000.
Fees for the non-executive directors represent their fees for the year under review.
Sean FitzPatrick resigned on 18 December 2008.
David Tylers total remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2008 included a redundancy payment of 545,000 base salary and 18,200 car and fuel allowance.
This followed his redundancy with effect from 1 April 2007 as an executive director of Experian Finance plc formerly GUS plc.
John Peace ceased to be an employee of the Group on 31 March 2007.
Under the GUS Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme rules, he has six months from this date to exercise his options, excluding any periods during which he is restricted from dealing in the Groups shares.
Disclosures will be made in respect of the exercise of these options at the appropriate time.
Options granted to Don Robert prior to his date of appointment to the board of GUS plc in April 2005 were granted under the GUS North America Stock Option Plan.
The 2005 and 2006 grants were made under the GUS UK Executive Share Option Scheme.
Options were granted to David Tyler in respect of his role as an executive director of GUS plc.
On demerger, he was eligible to exchange his options for equivalent options over Experian shares on the same basis as other participants in the relevant GUS plans except that he was not eligible to participate in the Experian Reinvestment Plan.
To the extent that his options were rolled over, the new options did not vest or lapse in connection with his termination of employment.
In respect of such options, David Tyler is treated as a good leaver for the purposes of the relevant plan rules if he ceases to be a non-executive director except as a result of voluntary resignation or actions which would constitute gross misconduct.
The relevant performance conditions apply.
All options in the above table were originally granted under the GUS executive share option schemes.
Options which were granted before 2005 were exchanged for equivalent options over Experian plc shares on demerger.
Unvested options granted in 2005 and 2006 other than options granted under the GUS 1998 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme were automatically exchanged for equivalent options over Experian plc shares.
The performance condition for options granted in 2005 and 2006 is based on the growth of Experians earnings per share in excess of the UK Retail Price Index from the date of demerger.
The market price of Experian plc shares at the end of the financial year was 436.75p: the highest and lowest prices during the financial year were 453.25p and 274.75p respectively.
Experian Annual Report 2009 67 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued Performance share plans In May 2005 and June 2006, executive directors received a share award under the GUS PSP with a face value of one times salary.
On demerger, these awards were automatically rolled over into Experian shares.
As approved by GUS plc shareholders at the EGM held on 29 August 2006, awards equivalent to two times salary were made to executive directors on demerger in October 2006 under the Experian performance share plan.
Both awards are outlined below.
For awards granted under the rolled over GUS performance share plan, the performance condition is based on TSR against the comparator group adopted by Experian.
Rolled over awards will not vest if Experians TSR is below the median return for the comparator group.
For these rolled over awards only, once Experian achieves median performance, 40% of the award may vest, rising on a straight-line basis to 100% of the award vesting for upper quartile performance or better.
On demerger, GUS PSP awards made in 2005 and 2006 were replaced with equivalent awards over Experian shares.
John Peaces employment with Experian Finance plc formerly GUS plc ended on 31 March 2007.
Under the rules of the GUS PSP, all outstanding awards were time pro-rated to 31 March 2007 and the pro-rated figures are shown in the table above.
The awards will vest, subject to the achievement of the performance condition, on the vesting date specified.
David Tylers awards were rolled over on the basis described in note 3 to the share options table.
Awards made in May 2005 were subject to the TSR performance condition described above.
Over the performance period, Experians TSR was at the median of that of the comparator group and so 40% of the shares awarded in 2005 vested on 19 November 2008 when the Experian share price was 329.25p.
Dividend equivalents were paid to Paul Brooks, John Peace, Don Robert and David Tyler on their vested shares.
The performance period in respect of the awards made in June 2006 runs from 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2009.
In respect of awards made in October 2006, the performance period for the TSR element of the award is 11 October 2006 to 11 October 2009 and for the PBT element 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2009.
68 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Report on directors remuneration 2 7 8 43 73 148 GUS co-investment plans and Experian reinvestment plans Awards to directors under the 2004 and 2005 cycles of the GUS co-investment plan and North America co-investment plan were reinvested in awards under the Experian reinvestment plan and North America reinvestment plan at demerger.
Awards under the 2006 cycle were automatically rolled over into equivalent awards over Experian shares under the rules of the GUS co-investment plan.
Release of matching shares under the Experian reinvestment plan is subject to the achievement of performance conditions see note 3 to the table below, the retention of reinvested awards and continued employment.
No further awards will be made under the reinvestment plan.
Matching shares awarded under the GUS co-investment plans will be released subject to continued employment.
Invested shares for John Peace and David Tyler were purchased with their bonus net of tax.
The matching share awards are made on a gross basis and are taxed at the point of vesting.
Invested shares for Don Robert and Paul Brooks were calculated by reference to the bonus gross of tax.
John Peace was not eligible to participate in the reinvestment plan.
He was granted a special reinvestment award over Experian shares which will vest after three years if he continues to be Chairman of Experian plc, subject to the good leaver reasons included in the rules.
Details of this award were disclosed in the circular to GUS plc shareholders dated 26 July 2006.
The first 50% of a matching award under the Experian reinvestment plan will vest subject to satisfaction of a performance condition relative to a sliding scale of growth in Experians PBT over a three-year period.
The threshold for vesting will be growth in PBT of 7% per annum at which 30% of this part of the matching award will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to 100% of this part of the award vesting at growth in PBT of 14% per annum.
This part of the matching award will vest in two equal tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of grant.
The remaining 50% of the matching award will be time-based and will vest as to 50% of this part of the matching award on the third anniversary of grant and as to 25% on each of the fourth and fifth anniversaries of grant.
David Tylers 2006 GUS co-investment plan awards were rolled over on the basis described in note 3 to the share options table Experian Annual Report 2009 69 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued Executive directors annual pension Don Robert is provided with benefits through a Supplementary Executive Retirement Plan SERP which is a defined benefit arrangement in the US.
The figures below are in respect of his SERP entitlement.
He also participated in a US defined contribution arrangement during the year and the employer contributions to this arrangement were $8,507 2008: $3,692.
Paul Brooks is a member of the registered Experian UK pension scheme.
His benefits are restricted by an earnings cap.
However, benefits in excess of this cap are provided for through the Experian Limited SURBS.
The pension figures below reflect both his registered and non-registered entitlement.
The table below provides the disclosure of the above directors pension entitlements in respect of benefits from registered schemes and non-registered arrangements.
Additional Accrued Accrued Transfer Transfer Change in pension pension at pension at value at value at transfer earned to Transfer value 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March value less 31 March 2009 of the increase 2009 2008 2009 2008 directors net of inflation less directors per annum per annum contributions per annum contributions 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 $000 pa $000 pa $000 $000 $000 $000 pa $000 Don Robert 376 311 6,503 5,586 917 49 846 000 pa 000 pa 000 000 000 000 pa 000 Paul Brooks 132 101 2,181 1,254 919 25 412 Five former directors of Experian Finance plc formerly GUS plc receive unfunded pensions from the Company.
Four of the former directors are paid under the SURBS.
The total unfunded pensions amount paid to the former directors was 566,734 2008: 539,644.
Notes: Columns 1 and 2 represent the deferred pension to which the director would have been entitled had he left the Group at 31 March 2009 and 2008 respectively.
Column 3 is the transfer value of the pension in column 1 calculated as at 31 March 2009 based on factors supplied by the actuary of the relevant Group pension scheme in accordance with version 8.1 of the UK actuarial guidance note GN11.
Column 4 is the equivalent transfer value, but calculated as at 31 March 2008 on the assumption that the director left service at that date.
Column 5 is the change in transfer value of accrued pension during the year net of contributions by the director.
The change in the transfer value for Paul Brooks includes the impact of a new transfer value basis agreed by the trustees of the Experian Pension Scheme which took effect on 1 October 2008, following legislation which required the basis to be updated.
This had the effect of increasing Paul Brooks transfer value by approximately 36% as the new basis reflects changes in demographic and financial assumptions.
The remainder of the increase in the transfer value reflects the increase in Paul Brooks accrued pension and the fact that he is one year older.
Column 6 is the increase in pension built up during the year, recognising i the accrual rate for the additional service based on the pensionable salary in force at the year end, and ii where appropriate the effect of pay changes in real inflation adjusted terms on the pension already earned at the start of the year.
Column 7 represents the transfer value of the pension in column 6.
The disclosures in columns 1 to 5 are equivalent to those required by the UK Directors Remuneration Report Regulations and those in columns 6 and 7 are those required by the UK Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules.
Directors service contracts In accordance with Don Roberts service agreement with Experian Services Corporation ESC dated 7 August 2006, if his employment is terminated by ESC without cause he is entitled to the following severance payments: continued payment of monthly salary for 12 months from the termination date: 12 months participation in welfare benefit plans in which he participated during his employment: and an annual bonus based on a 100% achievement of objectives payable in equal monthly instalments for 12 months.
The same amounts are payable by ESC if Don Robert terminates the contract: i following material breach by ESC: or ii for Good Reason following a change of control of ESC.
Good Reason means, during the six month period following a change of control, a material and substantial adverse reduction or change in Don Roberts position.
Don Roberts service agreement also provides for the following payments to be made if the agreement terminates in the event of Don Roberts death in addition to payments due but unpaid before death : a pro rata annual bonus for the bonus year to the termination date based on ESCs performance in that bonus year: and a lump sum equal to 12 months base salary to be paid no later than 90 days after the date of death.
If the employment is terminated due to Don Roberts disability he is entitled to the bonus as described immediately above in addition to payments due but unpaid before the termination.
Any deferred compensation obligations with respect to Don Robert will be governed in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
This is consistent with US employment practice.
70 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Report on directors remuneration 2 7 8 43 73 148 In his service agreement dated 2 April 2007, upon termination of employment, at the absolute discretion of Experian Limited, Paul Brooks may be paid base salary alone, pension contributions and benefits in kind excluding bonus or incentive payments unless the company in its absolute discretion determines otherwise in lieu of six months notice where notice is given by Paul Brooks or 12 months notice where notice is given by Experian Limited.
Save for the benefits described above, the service contract of each of the executive directors does not provide for any benefits on the termination of employment.
Combined Code The constitution and operation of the remuneration committee are in accordance with the principles of good governance and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the UK Financial Reporting Council.
Directors interests The interests of the directors and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Group are shown below.
Share options granted to directors, awards under the performance share plan and the contingent interests in matching shares under the co-investment and reinvestment plans are shown in the relevant tables.
The directors have no interests in the debentures of the Group or in any shares or debentures of the Groups subsidiaries.
Shares held in Experian plc 1 31 March 2009 Chairman John Peace 1,136,713 Executive directors 2 Don Robert 522,723 2 Paul Brooks 227,476 Non-executive directors Fabiola Arredondo 99,315 Laurence Danon 5,568 Roger Davis 220,199 Alan Jebson 42,184 Sir Alan Rudge 18,518 David Tyler 514,441 Notes: 1.
For regulatory purposes, as at 19 May 2009, there had been no changes in the above interests.
T he number of Experian shares for Don Robert and Paul Brooks reflects 304,441 and 134,655 shares respectively awarded to them under the legacy GUS North America co-investment plan and Experian reinvestment plan in lieu of annual bonus as shown in the table in addition to their personal beneficial shareholding.
Don Robert and Paul Brooks have an unconditional right to receive Experian shares at the end of the relevant three year deferral period.
Prior to receipt they do not have dividend or voting rights in respect of such shares.
On behalf of the remuneration committee Charles Brown Company Secretary 19 May 2009 Experian Annual Report 2009 71
