Fidessa group plc 20 Directors report directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Introduction This report by the Remuneration Committee has been approved by the Board for submission to shareholders in accordance with the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Combined Code, the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the reporting requirements of The Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations.
Consistent with previous years, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be presented for approval.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to the Companys members on the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether in their opinion that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with s421 of the Companies Act 2006 together with the Regulations.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Unaudited information Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Ron Mackintosh, Philip Hardaker and Elizabeth Lake, all non-executive directors, the chairman of the Committee being Ron Mackintosh.
None of the members of the Committee has any personal financial interest other than possibly as shareholders, conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships, or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration, other benefits and terms of employment, including performance-related bonus schemes and oversight of share incentive schemes, for the executive directors and senior management.
"During the year, the Committee commissioned an independent remuneration consultancy, Hewitt New Bridge Street ""HNBS"", to review the Group's remuneration philosophy, policies and structures."
HNBS has not provided any other services to the Group and the terms of its engagement are available on request.
The Committee is mindful of the recommendations made in the Walker Review, published in November 2009, and will take these into consideration in its deliberations in 2010 and beyond.
The Committee's terms of reference are available at www.
The performance of the Remuneration Committee was evaluated during the year and the conclusion was that the Committee was functioning effectively.
Remuneration philosophy The Groups remuneration philosophy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the executive directors and senior management should be performance related, so that management is clearly focused on the financial performance of the Group.
Remuneration comprises a relatively lower base salary and a higher bonus than comparative companies.
In addition, the philosophy requires long-term as well as short-term measurement for delivery, so as to avoid excessive short-term risk taking and to encourage consistent performance over multiple years.
As performance hurdles and measurement periods increase, the probability of an incentive vesting decreases and the Committee recognises that for these situations the potential rewards should be higher.
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration of the executive directors and the Chairman.
When making its recommendations to the Board, the Committee will consult with the Chairman and Chief Executive, although neither is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee also recommends and monitors the quantum and structure of remuneration for other members of senior management.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee reviews the performance of the individual concerned and takes account of comparative market data from other companies in the IT sector.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the executive directors and senior managers should be rewarded fairly and competitively according to their performance and at a similar level to directors and senior managers in comparable companies at a level that will attract, motivate and retain individuals of an appropriate calibre to deliver value to shareholders.
This approach has been demonstrated to be successful when viewed in relation to the Group's overall performance.
The package of the directors and senior managers is reviewed on a regular basis and will generally contain the following elements: a base salary, performance related bonus payments, other benefits and share-based incentives.
The aim is that these elements combine to provide a balance over the short, medium and longer term for rewarding successful performance.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21 Remuneration structure Short term Salary This provides certain receipt but at a relatively low level.
Bonus 1 year vesting Bonus constitutes the higher value element of the short-term reward and is closely focused on successful performance.
Medium term Share Bonus Plan 3 year vesting This provides limited reward at target levels similar to those in share schemes of many companies.
Long term Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan 5 year vesting, Exceptional targets requiring continuous performance developed in extensive consultation with shareholders.
over the long term and therefore providing higher reward if the targets are met.
Basic salary Each executive directors basic salary is set at a below mid-market yet reasonable level and reviewed annually based on performance, achievement of objectives, comparative salaries and periodic reviews from the Companys remuneration advisers.
During 2009 the Remuneration Committee took into account the uncertain market conditions and, in seeking to ensure that remuneration policies remained appropriate, directors' salaries for 2009 were frozen.
Bonus The focus of remuneration for executive directors is rewarding for successful performance.
The first element of this is the annual bonus.
Chris Aspinwall is entitled to a cash bonus based on the Groups operating profit excluding any items that the Remuneration Committee considers to be exceptional or inappropriate.
The terms of the bonus are reviewed if there is a material acquisition in any period and it is subject to an upper limit of four times base salary.
This year it was calculated, as in previous years, using a flat percentage of the adjusted operating profit of the Group for the year.
Andy Malpass is entitled to a cash bonus but in order to maintain his independence as finance director, it is not linked directly to the Group's operating profit but is instead measured against his performance against a series of financial and management objectives and is also subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
His bonus is capped at not more than 150% of base salary.
This year performance was based on the development of the finance team, systems improvements and financial and reporting targets.
Share based incentives Share based incentives are believed to be an important form of overall compensation when judiciously combined with other forms of remuneration.
Share based incentives are also key in aligning directors' remuneration with the interests of shareholders.
The share incentive plans that the directors participate in, reward them for consistent performance in the medium and long term as well as providing limited award for performance similar to that for the sector and more substantial reward for exceptional performance.
The details of these schemes are provided further down in this Directors' Remuneration Report.
Other benefits Benefits are very limited as the Remuneration Committee strongly believes in focusing directors' remuneration on types of remuneration that can be aligned with the interests of shareholders.
Benefits provided include the provision of medical insurance and life assurance.
No director currently participates in the Group defined contribution pension scheme.
Service contracts The contracts of service for Chris Aspinwall and Andy Malpass are for an indefinite term providing for 12 months notice by either party.
These contracts were entered into on 2nd June 1997 and amended on 3rd October 2003.
In the event of termination the director is eligible to salary, benefits and bonus accrued during the notice period and payable in equal monthly instalments subject to the director using reasonable endeavours to obtain suitable alternative employment.
The reason for the inclusion of bonus payments in the severance payment, is that the Remuneration Committee believes that it would be inequitable to pay only salary and benefits to a director in the event of termination as a good leaver as these constitute a reasonably small percentage of total annual remuneration of the directors.
Fidessa group plc 22 Directors report directors remuneration report continued This is due to the lower level base salary payable to the directors in comparison with other companies of a similar size.
However the level of bonus that would be payable in such situations is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and would be based on the historic performance of the directors during the portion of the bonus calculation period in which they had held office.
The contract of service for John Hamer was entered into on 2nd June 1997 and is for an indefinite term providing for six months notice by either party.
Philip Hardaker in February 2008 signed a new letter of appointment that provides for a further period of three years, subject to termination by either party on one months notice.
Ron Mackintosh signed a new letter of appointment during the 2007 financial year for a further term of three years, also subject to termination by either party on one months notice.
It is envisaged that Ron Mackintosh will be appointed for a further term of three years during 2010.
Elizabeth Lake signed a letter of appointment in October 2008 providing for a term of three years, subject to termination by either party on one months notice.
There are no formal shareholding requirements in place but the executive directors maintain and have historically maintained significant holdings in the Company.
Non-executive fees The Board determines the non-executive directors fees.
The non-executive directors are not involved in decisions about their own remuneration.
The Chairman and non-executive directors are not eligible for performance-related remuneration or participation in share-based incentives.
Nonexecutive directors receive 36,000 per annum for membership of the Board and then a further 2,000 for membership of each of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee receive a further 5,000 each for the additional responsibility entailed in these roles.
Interests in contracts During the year no director had any interest in any contract of significance with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings other than the directors deeds of indemnity with the Company.
Total shareholder return performance graph The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 require the presentation of a performance graph of total shareholder return compared to a broad equity market index for a period of five years.
The total shareholder return is the share price plus dividends re-invested on the ex-dividend date over the period of the graph.
The Board believes that the TechMARK All-Share Index, of which Fidessa group plc is a constituent, provides the best benchmark for comparison.
The Company share price and the TechMARK All-Share Index are both set to 100 at the start of the five year period.
350 FDSA techMARK All Share 300 250 200 150 100 50 Source: Fidessa 0 Jan 05 Jul 05 Jan 06 Jul 06 Jan 07 Jul 07 Jan 08 Jul 08 Jan 09 Jul 09 Dec 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23 Audited information Directors remuneration Details of the remuneration of the directors are set out below: Base fees & salaries Benefits Bonus Total Year ended 31st December 2009 000 000 000 000 Chairman John Hamer 135 1 136 Executive Chris Aspinwall 200 1 640 841 Andy Malpass 200 3 210 413 Non-executive Ron Mackintosh 45 45 Philip Hardaker 45 45 Elizabeth Lake 36 36 Total 661 5 850 1,516 Base fees & salaries Benefits Bonus Total Year ended 31st December 2008 '000 '000 '000 '000 Chairman John Hamer 135 1 136 Executive Chris Aspinwall 200 1 653 854 Andy Malpass 200 3 210 413 Non-executive Ron Mackintosh 45 45 Philip Hardaker 45 45 Elizabeth Lake 9 9 Total 634 5 863 1,502 Elizabeth Lake was appointed to the Board in October 2008 Directors interests The interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company, all of which were beneficial, were as follows: 2009 2008 Number Number John Hamer 353,522 458,132 Chris Aspinwall 736,649 883,897 Andy Malpass 102,560 136,249 Ron Mackintosh 10,000 10,000 Philip Hardaker 2,000 2,000 Elizabeth Lake Nil Nil Between 31st December 2009 and the date of this report the interests of John Hamer, Chris Aspinwall and Andy Malpass have each increased by 10 shares as a result of a regular monthly purchase by the Fidessa group plc Share Incentive Plan.
Fidessa group plc 24 Directors report directors remuneration report continued Share incentives The Company has share option schemes whereby employees of the Group are granted options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company subject to the vesting of their awards in accordance with the terms of the schemes.
"The executive directors participated in the share option schemes up to 2000 but more recently have been restricted from the grant of share options by their participation in the Share Bonus Plan ""SBP"" and the Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan ""EGRIP""."
The interests of the directors in share options are as follows: Number at Number at Date 1st January Exercised 31st December exercisable 2009 during year 2009 Option price from Expiry date 17.08.2003- Andy Malpass 2,334 2,334 12.85 17.08.2004 17.08.2010 The mid-market price of the shares in the Company at 31st December 2009 was 1,175p 493p at 31st December 2008 and the range in the year was 520p to 1,340p.
"Total permitted dilution under the Company Share Option Plan, the ""CSOP"", further detail of which is set out further down in this report, is 8% during the life of the plan and at 31st December 2009, 3.1% of this had been used."
For the EGRIP total dilution under the life of the plan is 6% and the current potential dilution under existing awards is 4.9%.
The levels of dilution under the CSOP and the EGRIP were put together in extensive consultation with shareholders before being approved by a large majority of the shareholders EGRIP 88% of votes cast and CSOP 89% of votes cast at the Extraordinary General Meeting held in February 2006.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25 No awards lapsed in the year and no awards vested in the year.
The fair value of an award under the Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan can be found in the notes to the financial statements.
Share options Share options are granted on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee on a discretionary basis.
The scheme is used to provide long-term incentives to the recipients to assist in creating and sustaining growth in share value.
The Company Performance Related Share Option Plan has expired and the CSOP as defined below is the current scheme.
Company Performance Related Share Option Plan This plan was introduced in 1997 on the float of the Company and the last grant was made in September 2005.
The vesting of share options granted under this plan was conditional on continued employment of three and four years after the grant of the option.
These share options were granted periodically, typically once each year to eligible employees until 2005.
The Company had shareholder approval under this plan for share options of up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital subsequent to the listing on the London Stock Exchange, and 5.8% was used.
At 31st December 2009 the outstanding share options under this scheme represented 2.6% of the issued share capital.
Company Share Option Plan 2006 the CSOP Shareholders approved the implementation of the CSOP at the Extraordinary General Meeting in February 2006 with over 89% of the votes cast voting in favour of the plan.
This plan superseded the Company Performance Related Share Option Plan.
All employees and full time working directors of the Company or any subsidiary determined by the Board to be a participating company under the CSOP are eligible to receive options under the CSOP: however an employee or full-time working director who has received an award under the Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan or Share Bonus Plan in any financial year will be ineligible to receive a CSOP option in that financial year.
Share options granted under this plan are subject to performance conditions set by the Board taking into account the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee.
Under the rules of the CSOP the performance conditions must be objective and must relate to the overall financial performance of the Company and its subsidiaries over a period of at least four years commencing on the date of grant or the first day of the accounting period current at the date of grant.
"In relation to grants made under the CSOP, the performance conditions relate to diluted earnings per share ""EPS"" growth and will be achieved in relation to an option if the Actual Cumulative EPS during the Measurement Period is greater than the Target Cumulative EPS during the Measurement Period."
The Actual Cumulative EPS during the Measurement Period is the sum of the EPS for each financial year of the Measurement Period.
The Target Cumulative EPS during the Measurement Period is the sum of the EPS figures obtained by increasing the Base Year EPS at the rate of 5 per cent per annum for each financial year of the Measurement Period.
EPS under the scheme means the diluted earnings per share of the Company for any financial year before exceptional items being such items which the grantor determines to be exceptional in relation to any financial year and shall be calculated by reference to the Group Annual Report and Financial Statements for the financial year ended immediately prior to the Date of Grant the Base Year EPS and those calculated from the four subsequent preliminary results announcements.
The Measurement Period is the period commencing at the beginning of the financial year in which an award is made and ending on the last day of the fourth consecutive financial year including the financial year in which that award was made.
The performance conditions can be waived or amended if the Board determines after consultation with the Remuneration Committee that a change of circumstances means that the performance conditions cannot be fairly and reasonably met.
The number of shares that may be the subject of options granted under the CSOP is limited such that no option to subscribe shares can be granted under the CSOP if the number of shares subject to the option when added to the number of shares issued on the exercise of or remaining capable of being issued on the exercise of options granted under the CSOP during the period of ten years ending on the proposed date of grant would exceed 8% of the issued share capital of the Company immediately prior to the proposed date of grant.
For the purpose of the 8% limit no account will be taken of rights to acquire shares which have been released, lapsed or otherwise become incapable of being exercised or of options or awards granted under any other Fidessa employee share scheme.
In addition, account will be taken of any shares which a trustee has a right to subscribe to satisfy options and of any treasury shares used, or to be used, to satisfy options or awards.
At 31st December 2009 the used and outstanding share options under the CSOP represented 3.1% of the issued share capital.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the use of share options has been a material contributor to the growth and success of Fidessa.
Fidessa group plc 26 Directors report directors remuneration report continued Share bonus plan At the 2003 Annual General Meeting shareholders approved the creation of the Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Plan.
In summary, the plan allows the Company to make awards to executive directors and senior managers a participant.
An award provides that, should a participant purchase ordinary shares in the Company up to the value of their award, then they have the opportunity to receive a share bonus.
A share bonus constitutes the right, subject to certain vesting conditions, to call for free matching shares.
The maximum number of free matching shares comprised in a share bonus is equal to the number of shares purchased by the participant.
The maximum value of shares which any one participant is permitted to acquire is limited to the value of the award.
The plan rules limit the maximum value of individual awards to 100,000.
All awards made under the Share Bonus Plan are settled using market purchased shares.
For all awards from the Share Bonus Plan a participant's right to a share bonus will vest subject to and to the extent that a combination of four performance conditions are satisfied as follows: the Company achieving compound annual growth in earnings per share in excess of defined hurdles over a period of three financial years, commencing with the financial year in respect of which an award is made.
"In relation to awards made in any financial year, the specified hurdle rates are: i if compound annual growth in EPS is equal to or greater than UK retail price index ""RPI"" plus 3% but less than RPI plus 4% then 6.25% of the Share Bonus shall vest: ii if compound annual growth in EPS is equal to or greater than UK RPI plus 4% but less than RPI plus 5% then 12.5% of the Share Bonus shall vest: iii if compound annual growth in EPS equal to or greater than UK RPI plus 5% but less than RPI plus 6% then 18.75% of the Share Bonus shall vest: iv if compound annual growth in EPS equal to or greater than UK RPI plus 6% then 25% of the Share Bonus shall vest: the Company achieving an objective business development target."
The nature of this target will not, necessarily, be a measure of the financial performance of the Company and will be determined by the Remuneration Committee from time to time.
The specific target has varied for different awards: some have been focused on the share price of a particular market and other awards have been a growth measurement for an element of revenue.
"If this condition is fully satisfied, then 25% of the Share Bonus will vest: the Company achieving compound annual growth in total shareholder return ""TSR"", the share price plus the cumulative dividends paid over the period, in excess of defined hurdles over a period of three financial years commencing with the financial year in respect of which an award has been made."
In relation to awards made the specified hurdle rates have been: i if compound annual growth in TSR is more than 3% but less than or equal to 5% then 6.25% of the Share Bonus shall vest: ii if compound annual growth in TSR is more than 5% but less than or equal to 7% then 12.5% of the Share Bonus shall vest: iii if compound annual growth in TSR is more than 7% but less than or equal to 9% then 18.75% of the Share Bonus shall vest: iv if compound annual growth in TSR is more than 9% then 25% of the Share Bonus shall vest: and continued employment within the Group until the third anniversary of the date on which the participant purchased the shares relating to a particular award.
If this condition is satisfied, then 25% of the Share Bonus shall vest.
The final service performance condition is an overriding performance condition.
Therefore, it must be satisfied in order for any of the other performance conditions to be satisfied.
The Remuneration Committee will set performance conditions in accordance with the structure set out above at the time awards are made to participants.
Performance conditions relating to awards made in relation to each subsequent financial year cannot be less challenging than those relating to the immediately preceding financial year.
In exceptional circumstances, where events occur which cause the Remuneration Committee to reasonably believe that some or all of the performance conditions relating to an award are no longer fair taking into account the original purpose of the performance condition s, then the Remuneration Committee may procure that a recommendation be made to the trustee of the plan for the performance condition to be amended or waived in such manner as the Remuneration Committee believes to be fair and reasonable provided that the amended performance condition is not easier or more difficult to achieve than the original performance condition was considered to be when it was first set.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27 Where a change of control event occurs prior to the vesting of a share bonus, the Remuneration Committee will take into account the amount of progress made by the Company towards achieving the performance conditions as at the time of the change of control, the extent and likelihood of the performance conditions being satisfied by the date on which the share bonus would have vested in the absence of the change of control event occurring and any other relevant factors which the Remuneration Committee considers, in its absolute discretion, to be relevant such as time elapsed since an award was made.
The operation of the Share Bonus Plan has been reviewed during the year by the Remuneration Committee and the level of grants and the performance conditions attached to the plan are considered by the Remuneration Committee to be appropriate to the Companys current situation and in line with the overall remuneration policy.
It is anticipated that the 2007 award will vest fully but it is too early to determine whether subsequent awards will vest.
Each award to date that has vested, has done so fully.
Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan In 2005 the Remuneration Committee and its external advisers reviewed the Companys share incentive schemes as a whole and as a result they formulated the Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan the EGRIP which was voted on by the shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company in February 2006 with over 88% of the votes cast approving the adoption of the plan.
All executive directors of the Company are eligible to receive awards under the EGRIP as are any employees of the Group selected by the Remuneration Committee.
However, an executive director or selected employee who has received an award under the CSOP in any financial year will be ineligible to receive an EGRIP award in that financial year.
An EGRIP award Award or Awards represents a right to acquire i. e. call for shares in the Company at the call price subject to the terms and conditions of the EGRIP.
Under the rules of the EGRIP, Awards may only be made in relation to the financial years ending 31st December 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010.
Share price target The first performance condition requires the average Company share price plus dividends reinvested over the five year period commencing on the date on which an Award is made calculated using the daily closing price on each trading day over the five years to be greater than the average derived if the share price were to increase on a uniform basis of 20% per annum compound growth over the same five year period.
The starting share price is the average share price plus dividends reinvested for the 12 months prior to the date on which the Award is made.
EPS target The second performance condition requires the Companys cumulative diluted earnings per share before any items which are deemed to be exceptional EPS over the five financial years commencing with the financial year in which an Award is made to be greater than the equivalent total achieved over a five year period by applying a growth rate of 10% per annum to the EPS achieved in the year prior to the Award.
TSR Sector-Relative Underpinning The third performance condition requires the Companys annualised total shareholder return TSR over the five year period commencing on an Award date to be greater than the annualised equivalent achieved by the FTSE techMARK All-Share Index TSR, during the same five year period, plus 5%.
Each Award is personal to the participant and may not be transferred, assigned or charged and shall become immediately void on the bankruptcy of the participant.
Call price The call price per share subject to an Award is the nominal value of a share or such higher price as set by the grantor.
In the Awards made during the current financial year the call price of a share is the nominal value of a share, i. e. 10 pence and it is anticipated that the call price will be the same under future Awards.
Fidessa group plc 28 Directors report directors remuneration report continued Plan limits The maximum number of shares subject to Awards made to any one participant in a financial year will be limited to 15% of the maximum share allocation for that year.
The maximum share allocation being the maximum number of shares in relation to which Awards may be made for each financial year will be: Year ended Maximum Allocation Awards made 31st December 2006 1.6% of the total issued share capital of the Company 523,512 31st December 2007 1.4% of the total issued share capital of the Company 483,940 31st December 2008 1.2% of the total issued share capital of the Company 415,400 31st December 2009 1% of the total issued share capital of the Company 357,250 31st December 2010 0.8% of the total issued share capital of the Company N A Cessation of employment If a participant ceases to be an employee of the Group prior to the end of the period over which the performance conditions are measured in relation to any of his subsisting Awards, those Awards will lapse upon such cessation.
However, where a participant ceases to be an employee after the end of the period over which the performance conditions are measured in relation to any of his subsisting Awards, those Awards will not lapse and will continue to subsist under the terms and conditions of the EGRIP.
Change of control If a change of control of the Company occurs including a takeover, scheme of arrangement or voluntary winding-up of the Company subsisting unvested Awards will become vested subject to the satisfaction of modified performance conditions which take into account the period of time which has elapsed since the relevant date of Award and the Company's performance up to the time of the change of control.
The extent to which Awards vest will be pro-rated to reflect the time that has elapsed from the date of the Award to the date on which a change of control event occurs.
All vested Awards will become exercisable within specified periods of time following the relevant change of control event.
Due to the fact that no further awards may be made under the EGRIP after 11 February 2011, the Committee plans to conduct a review of longterm incentive provisions during 2010 and expects to consult with shareholders during the year on this.
"ESG The Remuneration Committee considers corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues ""ESG issues"" when setting remuneration of executive directors."
It has endeavoured to ensure that the incentive structure for senior management is appropriate in that it does not raise ESG issues or risks by motivating excessive risk taking or other irresponsible behaviour and does not provide for reward in the event of failure both at Board level and senior management level.
Approval This report was approved by the Board on 12th February 2010 and signed on its behalf by: Ron Mackintosh Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
