Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 73 Remuneration Report Sir Crispin Davis Remuneration Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder As the new Chairman of GSKs Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present the Committees Remuneration Report for 2009 for which we will be seeking approval from shareholders at our AGM in May.
As you know, we made some important changes to GSKs remuneration policy for our UK Executive Directors last year to deliver appropriately structured pay through alignment with the market and GSKs key strategic priorities.
There was a high level of shareholder engagement in relation to these changes, and we were pleased to receive such a strong vote in favour of last years Remuneration Report at the AGM.
Senior management alignment and competitiveness Since then, we have made further progress in simplifying and aligning the remuneration structures across the Corporate Executive Team CET.
As a result of this, primary pay benchmarks will be based on the nature of each individual role rather than the industry benchmark previously used.
Share options will normally no longer be granted: instead, CET members will receive Performance Share Plan awards, and will also be eligible to participate in GSKs Deferred Annual Bonus Plan.
There will also be a more standardised pay mix across CET roles below the Executive Directors.
The Committee would not want to reward failure and so considers that severance terms should be more limited.
We have therefore determined that the contracts of any new CET appointees would normally include severance terms of one years base salary only, with no bonus entitlement.
In addition, I am pleased to report that the CEO has agreed to remove his contractual entitlement to bonus in the event of termination of his employment and also to note the increase in his holding of GSK shares.
Strategic alignment The introduction of a second performance measure in the Performance Share Plan has provided a clear focus on cash generation in the business.
We are continuing to develop measures that further align our remuneration with the ongoing work to transform GSK.
Given the importance of long term organic growth and R&D productivity to the future of GSK, we are assessing the most meaningful ways of measuring success in these areas so that they may be considered as performance measures for future awards.
Good governance There have been a number of corporate governance developments in the past year in response to the economic turmoil, with more likely to come in 2010.
When we reviewed our arrangements last year we wanted to ensure that we did not motivate excessive risk taking.
We introduced a new Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, and were one of the first companies to introduce a clawback mechanism for annual bonuses should problems arise in the years after a bonus award has been made.
We continue to monitor best practice governance developments, and commit to regular reviews of our remuneration arrangements to ensure that they continue to encourage the right behaviours from our leadership team.
The following report provides further detail on GSKs current remuneration arrangements including the changes made and those to be implemented.
The Committee believes that these changes support the future of the business and are in the best interests of shareholders.
Sir Crispin Davis Remuneration Committee Chairman 24th February 2010 GSK Annual Report 2009
