70 Corporate governance Nominations Committee Report The process continues into 2010, with the Committee placing emphasis on candidates who are current CEOs or have financial expertise.
Professional search agencies are engaged specialising in the recruitment of high calibre Non-Executive Directors.
Dossiers of potential Non-Executive appointees are provided to the Committee and candidates are shortlisted for interview on merit and against objective criteria after considering their relevant qualifications.
When appointing new Executive Directors or CET members, the Committee considers the skills, knowledge and experience required for the particular executive position.
The Committee will consider potential external and internal candidates before recommending to the Board to approve the new appointment.
All new Directors offer themselves for election at the companys next AGM.
Their appointments are announced publicly.
Ms Deirdre Connelly was appointed President, North American Sir Christopher Gent Pharmaceuticals on 9th February 2009 and also became a member Nominations Committee Chairman of the CET.
Attendance at On the Committees recommendation, the Board approved the full meetings Members Committee member since during 2009 following changes which took effect on the retirement of Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Schmitz from the Board at the conclusion of Sir Christopher Gent 9th December 2004 5 5 the AGM in May 2009: Sir Robert Wilson replaced Sir Ian as the Chairman from SID, Sir Crispin Davis replaced Sir Robert as the Chairman of the 1st January 2005 Remuneration Committee, Professor Sir Roy Anderson became a Mr L Culp 28th March 2008 5 5 member of the Audit & Risk Committee, Mr fide Swaan stepped Sir Crispin Davis 9th July 2009 2 2 down from the Corporate Responsibility Committee and became a member of the Remuneration Committee, Mr Murdoch became Sir Deryck Maughan 9th July 2009 2 2 a member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
In addition, Sir Robert Wilson 28th March 2008 5 5 on the Committees recommendation, the Board approved the Sir Ian Prosser 27th December 2000 2 2 appointment of Sir Crispin and Sir Deryck Maughan as members Committee Chairman of the Nominations Committee with effect from 9th July 2009.
February-December 2003 The Committee also recommended and the Board approved the appointment of Mr Murdoch as a member of the Remuneration Dr R Schmitz 17th May 2004 2 2 Committee with effect from 1st October 2009.
Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Schmitz retired from the Board on 20th May 2009.
Remuneration Report Other attendees at Committee meetings: The Remuneration Report can be found on pages 73 to 90.
CEO Chief of Staff Head of HR Company Secretary where relevant, appropriate external advisers.
The Committees main responsibilities include proposing the appointment of Board and Committee members.
During 2009, the Committees main focus was on the recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors to refresh the Board and on the appointment of a new Head of North American Pharmaceuticals.
When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee considers the particular skills, knowledge and experience that would benefit the Board most significantly for each appointment.
Broad selection criteria are used which focus on achieving a balance between the representation of European, UK and US markets, and having individuals with CEO experience and skills developed in various sectors and specialities.
During 2009, particular focus was placed upon recruiting replacements for Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Ronaldo Schmitz who retired at the AGM in 2009.
The Committee recommended the appointment of Mr James Murdoch as a Non-Executive Director.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Governance and remuneration P54P90
