Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report The Board also continues to believe that, in the circumstances of this Group, Executive Directors Directors the Chairman of the Board is the remuneration policy remuneration report proper person to be Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The The overall policy adopted by the This report has been prepared in Chairman is not present when his own Remuneration Committee is to ensure accordance with the requirements of remuneration is discussed and decided, that the Group is paying sufficient to Schedule 8 of the Large and Mediumas is the case for all Directors.
attract, retain and motivate high quality sized Companies and Groups Accounts Executive Directors capable of and Reports Regulations 2008 and has Prior to his resignation on 23 October achieving the Groups objectives.
The been approved by the Remuneration 2008, Christopher Collins was a Committee considers Executive Committee and the Board.
Ernst & member of the Committee.
Andrew Directors cash bonuses, which are Young LLP have audited certain parts of Allner became a member of the dependent on the achievement of this report.
Where disclosures have Committee following his appointment safety, corporate governance and been subject to audit, they are indicated to the Board on 24 October 2008. financial targets in the relevant financial as such.
The auditors opinion is included year.
The Committee is informed of the in their report on page 101.
Support to the Committee pay, incentives and benefits packages of The Committee has appointed Watson The Board supports the principles of senior managers in the Group and its Wyatt Limited, independent good corporate governance relating to operating companies.
remuneration specialists, to advise on all Directors remuneration and, in aspects of Board remuneration.
In In considering the Executive Directors preparing this remuneration report, the addition to advising the Committee, remuneration, the Committee follows Remuneration Committee has followed Watson Wyatt Limited are also the provisions of the Combined Code.
the provisions of the Combined Code.
consulting actuaries toThe Go-Ahead The pay practices of its major An ordinary resolution to receive and Group Pension Plan and advise the commercial competitors are also taken approve this Directors Remuneration Company on various pensions related into account, in addition to other Report will be proposed at the issues.
factors specific to the Group and to Companys Annual General Meeting to each Director and his role and to the The Committee receives be held on 29 October 2009. wider pay market in the FTSE 250. recommendations from the Group Chief Executive on Executive Directors The Committee recognises that, for this remuneration, other than his own.
Groups business, shareholder value is Remuneration dependent on factors not all necessarily Role of the Committee appearing within the published financial Committee The key responsibilities and activities of statements, although their effect on the Committee during the year later financial statements can be included: Meetings significant.
Leading these corporate Details of the members, the number of governance issues are safety, control of determining the overall remuneration meetings and attendees in the year are risk and other executive actions of a policy including the balance between shown on page 47. strategic nature that may take several fixed and performance-related accounting periods to show changes in elements of pay : A review of the terms of reference and shareholder value.
Executives in the operation of the Remuneration determining the remuneration and Group are encouraged to take Committee, including its constitution conditions of employment of the corporate governance and strategy and chairmanship, was undertaken Executive Directors: extremely seriously and always to during the year.
The terms of reference consider the long term implications of determining the fees of the Chairman: are available from the Companys their decision making.
The website or upon request from the reviewing the operation and Remuneration Committee has regard Group Company Secretary.
continued appropriateness of the to these factors, as well as the annual LongTerm Incentive Plan: It is the Boards view that the reported financial statements, in arriving Remuneration Committees composition at the Directors overall remuneration reviewing the terms of reference for enables the Board to comply with the and in considering the mix between the Remuneration Committee: and main principles of the Combined Code fixed and variable pay.
reviewing the remuneration of senior in respect of remuneration.
Although the There are currently three main managers within the Group.
Committee is not made up of at least elements to the Executive Directors three independent Non-Executive remuneration package: basic salary, Acceptance by the Board of Directors as required by the Combined annual cash bonus and the LongTerm Remuneration Committee proposals Code, the Board continues to believe Incentive Plan LTIP.
A substantial During the relevant period, the that, due to the small size of the Board, it proportion of the Executive Directors Committees recommendations were all is appropriate for the Committee to pay is performance related.
The chart accepted unanimously by the Board and comprise the Non-Executive Chairman on page 54 shows the balance between implemented without amendment.
and the two Non-Executive Directors.
fixed and performance related pay at maximum performance levels.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 53 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued of 63.6% of basic salary to the Group individual leaves the Company during Fixed and performance related pay at Chief Executive and the Group Finance the deferral period for any reason other maximum performance levels Director.
A maximum bonus of 20% than redundancy, retirement or illwas awarded for the achievement of health.
The Committee considers it safety and corporate governance important for a proportion of the 29% targets.
A further maximum of 10% was discretionary bonus to be taken in the earned after achieving 95% of budgeted form of shares as this aligns the 42% profits.
Out of a potential maximum of Executives longer term interests with 70% of bonus payable on the those of the Groups shareholders.
achievement of 115% of budget, 33.6% LongTerm Incentive Plan LTIP of bonus was earned after achieving Following its approval by shareholders 104.6% of budget.
The bonus is nonin October 2005, the LTIP replaced the pensionable and is paid in cash.
29% Groups deferred share bonus plan.
27 June 2009 28 June 2008 Since then it has been the Groups sole Cash Bonus 000 000 Basic salary excluding Value of LTIP long term share incentive plan for pension contributions shares vesting Keith Ludeman 318 338 senior executives.
and benets Nick Swift 175 186 Performance related Under the LTIP, participants are granted cash bonus awards whereby they are entitled to While the fundamental structure of the acquire a specified number of ordinary cash bonus targets remains unchanged Maximum performance assumes shares in the Company if, and to the for the new financial year, the achievement of maximum cash bonus extent that, performance conditions are Committee has resolved that an and full vesting of shares under the LTIP met over a three year period.
The rules additional 15% of basic salary will be rules.
of the LTIP include, amongst other achievable in relation to specific provisions, limits on the number of strategic targets.
The Executive Basic salary shares over which a participant can be Directors will therefore be eligible to Each of the Executive Directors is paid granted awards in any financial year the earn an annual discretionary cash bonus an annual basic salary which is reviewed 'individual limit'.
This limit which is of up to 115% of basic annual salary for in April each year.
Salaries may be determined by reference to the average the year ending 3 July 2010.
In increased beyond inflation if justified by closing mid-market price of the shares subsequent years, the maximum cash reference to the performance of the which are the subject of the awards on bonus potential will revert to 100% individual and if there is clear evidence each dealing day falling in the four week that the existing salaries are not period ending with the dealing day Additional discretionary bonus competitive.
In view of the current immediately preceding their date of Following the year ended 27 June 2009, wider economic conditions, the grant is 150% of the participants basic and in recognition of the significant Committee decided that no increases in salary.
While the rules of the LTIP allow achievement in retaining the Southern basic salary should be awarded to the this limit to be increased up to 200% of franchise, the Remuneration Executive Directors and senior salary in exceptional circumstances, Committee exercised their discretion management at the last annual review such as the recruitment of a senior and resolved to award a discretionary in April 2009. executive, no awards have been made bonus to the Group Chief Executive 1 April 2009 1 April 2008 in excess of 150%.
and the Group Finance Director.
The Basic Salary 000 pa 000 pa Committee felt that it was necessary to The first awards were made in March Keith Ludeman 500 500 recognise the importance of the 2006.
Since then awards have been retention of the franchise to the Group Nick Swift 275 275 made on an annual basis to the Group outside of the normal annual bonus Chief Executive and Group Finance Annual cash bonus structure, with a share element which Director only, and on one occasion a Each of the Executive Directors is also will provide long term alignment with senior director who has now left the eligible to earn an annual discretionary shareholders as the financial benefits of Group.
cash bonus of up to 100% of basic the retention of the franchise flow annual salary.
The bonus is paid in through to the financial results.
Current performance conditions November each year, on the basis of When the LTIP was originally Out of a total discretionary award of achievement of challenging financial and introduced, it was a minimum 100,000 each payable to the Group non-financial targets in the financial year requirement that the Group should Chief Executive and the Group Finance ended in the previous June July.
The achieve an increase in adjusted earnings Director, 50% 50,000 each will be targets are notified to the Executive per share EPS over a three year payable in November 2009 as an Directors before the start of the year in period of not less than the increase in additional cash bonus.
The remaining question and are on a basis designed to retail prices index RPI plus 3% per 50% 50,000 each will be awarded introduce stretch into the performance year the minimum EPS hurdle.
If the after the 2009 Annual General Meeting assessment.
hurdle was not met, no part of the as deferred shares, subject to a holding For the year ended 27 June 2009, the awards would vest and, accordingly, provision of three years.
The deferred Remuneration Committee proposed, participants would not acquire any share awards will lapse if the relevant and the Board approved, bonus awards shares.
If the hurdle was met, the 54 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 number of shares that participants TSR performance with the companies Committee considers that these could acquire depended upon a comprised within the two comparator performance conditions are relevant, comparison of the Groups total groups i. e. theTransport Sector challenging and designed to enhance shareholder return TSR with theTSR Comparator Group and the shareholder value and that awards will of companies within two comparator constituents of the FTSE 250 Index vest in full only if exceptional groups.
These awards were granted in excluding investment trusts, performance has been achieved.
relation to financial years up to and specifically: including the 2007 08 financial year.
Share bonus plan one half of the award requires a Until 2005, the Executive Directors Following consultation last year, the comparison of the GroupsTSR with share bonus plan was used to make awards granted in relation to the theTSR of other companies in the share based awards to Executive 2008 09 financial year were changed Transport sector: this is a highly Directors and one senior director in and the performance conditions were relevant but small peer group the Group.
This has now been replaced split, such that, only half of the award comprising five companies only, by the LTIP.
would still be linked to comparativeTSR including the Group: and against the two existing comparator The final grant of shares under the the other half of the award requires a groups with the same conditions as share bonus plan was made in relation comparison of the GroupsTSR with previously and, the other half would be to the year ended 2 July 2005.
The final theTSR of the companies excluding linked to real growth in EPS.
outstanding award from this grant investment trusts that make up the vested on 1 December 2008 when title FTSE 250 index.
Remuneration Committee review for 9,569 shares transferred to the A further review was undertaken by If the GroupsTSR is equal to theTSR Group Chief Executive.
the Committee this year looking at the of a company that would fall mid-way There are no further shares held under appropriateness of the targets for between theTSR of the lowest and the rules of this plan.
future awards in the current economic highest comparator companies in the situation.
In undertaking their review, Transport sector, 25% of that portion of Savings related share option scheme the Committee sought advice from theTSR-related Award will vest.
The and share incentive plan Watson Wyatt Limited.
extent to which that portion of the The Group operates a savings related TSR-related Award vests will increase, The Committee remains of the opinion share option scheme and a share on a straight-line basis, to 100% the that the decision last year to increase incentive plan.
The Executive Directors closer that the GroupsTSR is to the the emphasis on EPS was appropriate are eligible to participate in either of TSR of a company that would fall threeat that time and was valid in principle.
these arrangements, under terms quarters of the way between theTSR However, the Committee has, in identical to any other participating of the lowest and the highest considering the performance conditions Group employee, if they so choose, and comparator companies in theTransport that should apply to the grant of awards any such participation would not be sector.
for the 2009 10 financial year, reached separately regulated by the the view that it is inappropriate to use Similarly, if the GroupsTSR is equal to Remuneration Committee.
an EPS target, given the current theTSR of the median comparator There are no other share option or economic uncertainty, and that the company in the FTSE 250 index, 25% of long term incentive schemes available most appropriate way to set a suitably that portion of theTSR-related Award to the Executive Directors.
stretching but motivating target is to will vest.
The extent to which that align with returns to shareholders, portion of theTSR-related Award vests Other benefits namelyTSR.
will increase, on a straight-line basis, to The Group does not allocate company 100% the closer that the GroupsTSR is cars to any employees, including the Performance conditions for 2009 10 to theTSR of the company that is Executive Directors.
Instead, employees The Committee intends to continue to ranked at the lower end of the upper who would have been allocated a use the LTIP as the sole form of longquartile.
company car as part of their benefits, or term share incentive for the Executive The calculation of these performance to accomplish their work, are given a Directors.
conditions, with the exception of the car replacement allowance.
Such However, the Committee proposes to EPS hurdle which no longer applies to allowances are non-pensionable.
alter the performance conditions that any part of the award, is unchanged will apply to the grant of awards under from the calculation of the current Pension funds the LTIP for the 2009 10 financial year performance conditions.
The Executive Directors are entitled to and subsequent years in order to become members ofThe Go-Ahead It is the Committees view that the increase the motivational effect on Group Pension Plan, a registered changes to the LTIP will ensure that participants and to maintain the pension plan.
senior executives continue to be alignment between participants and rewarded if they achieve substantial Following his accession to Group Chief shareholders.
improvements in the Groups Executive in July 2006, Keith Ludeman It is proposed that the extent to which underlying financial performance and opted out ofThe Go-Ahead Group awards will vest will be based solely on perform well relative to other Pension Plan with effect from 1 a comparison of the Groups three-year companies in the FTSE 250.
The December 2006, but retains a salary The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 55 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued link in relation to his accrued benefit The Non-Executive Directors and the which is provided separately through an Chairman do not hold any share individual non-registered unfunded options and do not participate in the pension arrangement.
In lieu of future LongTerm Incentive Plan or any of the benefits, he receives a non-pensionable Groups pension plan arrangements.
This salary The members of the Remuneration supplement is not included with basic Committee have no personal interests salary for the purposes of calculating in the matters to be decided by the performance related cash bonus or Committee other than as shareholders, LTIP awards.
and have no conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships.
The Group Finance Director, Nick Swift, is a member ofThe Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan.
Directors contracts Shareholding guidelines It is the Groups policy to restrict the As part of the review of remuneration notice periods for Executive Directors policy in 2008, shareholder guidelines to a maximum of twelve months.
Both were introduced for the Executive Executive Directors have rolling service Directors.
These provide for the contracts.
There are no provisions for Executive Directors to build up a special pension benefits, such as personal shareholding equal to one beneficial early retirement terms.
Other years basic salary over a period of five than the notice periods specified below, years.
At the end of the financial year, the Executive Directors are not due the Group Chief Executive and the any contractual compensation Group Finance Director respectively payments in the event of loss of office.
Based on Each Non-Executive Director has a the closing share price on 27 June 2009, letter of appointment.
There is no fixed this equates to 64% and 41% of their term of appointment, however, all respective basic salaries held in shares Directors are subject to rotation and of the Company.
re-election in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the Combined Code.
Apart from salary Non-Executive and benefits in relation to the notice Directors period for the relevant appointment, remuneration the Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment contain no entitlement to compensation for early termination.
The remuneration of the NonThese letters of appointment are Executive Directors is a matter for the available for inspection at the Chairman and the Executive members Companys Registered Office during of the Board, giving due regard to the normal business hours and will also be required time commitment and available for inspection prior to and responsibilities.
The Remuneration during the Annual General Meeting.
Committee considers the remuneration of the Chairman in his absence.
The fees paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are reviewed by the Board annually in April with consideration given to surveys of fees Contract and notice periods paid to Non-Executive Directors of comparable companies.
Following the Director Date of service contract Notice period annual review in April 2009 there was Sir Patrick Brown February 1999 6 months no increase in fees.
Details of the fees Rupert Pennant-Rea October 2002 6 months paid to the Chairman and NonExecutive Directors are below.
Andrew Allner October 2008 6 months 1 1 April 2009 1 April 2008 Chris Collins April 2005 6 months Fees 000 pa 000 pa Keith Ludeman December 2006 1 year Sir Patrick Brown 150 150 Nick Swift July 2007 1 year Rupert Pennant-Rea 44 44 1 1 Resigned on 23 October 2008 Andrew Allner 44 2 Christopher Collins 44 1 Appointment effective on 24 October 2008 2 Resigned on 23 October 2008 56 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Performance graph The following graph shows a comparison ofThe Go-Ahead Group plc total cumulative shareholder return against that achieved by our peers and the FTSE 250 Index for the last five years to 30 June 2009.
In assessing the performance of the GroupsTSR the Board believes the comparator groups it has chosen represent an appropriate and fair benchmark upon which to measure the Groups performance for this purpose.
Total shareholder return rebased to 100 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Go-Ahead TSR 1 Peer Group TSR FTSE 250 TSR 1 TSR peer group consists of Arriva plc, FirstGroup plc, National Express Group plc and Stagecoach Group plc.
This graph is included to meet the relevant legislative requirements and is not directly relevant to the performance criteria used for the Companys LTIP.
However, the indices used were selected as the Directors believe that they are the most appropriate and representative indices against which to measure the Companys performance, both in terms of the size of the Company and the nature of its business.
Audited information Emoluments and compensation Nonpensionable Performance Car Total salary related replacement Benefits in exc.
3 The only benefits in kind received during the financial year was the provision of Private Medical Insurance for the Executive Directors, their spouses and their children under the age of 24.
During the financial year, no sums that were chargeable to UK income tax were payable to any Director of the Company by way of an expense allowance in respect of qualifying services.
Directors share options No share options are held by or have been granted to the Executive Directors during the financial year.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 57 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued LongTerm Incentive Plan Balance at Awards lapsed Awards granted Share price Awards vested Balance at 28 June 2008 in year in year at date in year Share price at 27 June 2009 End of period when Award Date No.
Taking advice from Watson Wyatt Limited on the extent to whichTSR and EPS tests had been met, the Committee determined that 3,985 of the shares should be allowed to vest in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
2 The awards granted on 11 September 2006 will vest following a period of three years from the award date and will be dependent upon the satisfaction of the initial performance conditions as set out on page 54, covering the period commencing with the start of the 2006 07 financial period and ending with the end of the 2008 09 financial period.
3 The awards granted on 10 September 2007 will vest following a period of three years from the award date and will be dependent upon the satisfaction of the initial performance conditions as set out on page 54, covering the period commencing with the start of the 2007 08 financial period and ending with the end of the 2009 10 financial period.
4 The awards granted on 24 October 2008 will vest following a period of three years from the award date and will be dependent upon the satisfaction of the current performance conditions as set out on page 55, covering the period commencing with the start of the 2008 09 financial period and ending with the end of the 2010 11 financial period.
Directors pension funds The following disclosures are included to meet the relevant legislative requirements in relation to the Directors final salary pension benefits: Accrued pensions Keith Ludeman Nick Swift 000 p. a.
Accrued pension at 28 June 2008 272 4 Accrued pension at 27 June 2009 285 8 Increase in the accrued pension during the year 13 4 Increase in the accrued pension during the year in excess of inflation -1 4 Transfer values and notional contributions Keith Ludeman Nick Swift 000 000 Transfer value of the accrued pension at 28 June 2008 2,776 16 Transfer value of the accrued pension at 27 June 2009 3,703 49 Directors notional contributions during the year 22 Increase in transfer value over the year net of Directors notional contributions 927 11 Transfer value of the increase in the accrued pension in excess of inflation and Directors notional contributions -12 5 Notes 1 In light of changes to legislation and market conditions and upon taking actuarial advice, theTrustees ofThe Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan reviewed and amended the basis for the calculation of cash equivalent transfer values with effect from 1 October 2008.
The transfer values at the year end have been calculated in accordance with this basis.
2 Keith Ludeman and Nick Swift were members of the Group's approved final salary pension plan during the financial year.
In addition, part of Keith Ludeman's benefit is provided separately through an individual unapproved unfunded pension arrangement.
The figures in the table above relate to Keith Ludeman's benefits in both the approved and unapproved arrangements.
3 Keith Ludeman opted out of the Group's approved final salary arrangement from 1 December 2006 but retains a salary link in relation to his accrued benefit.
In lieu of future pension benefits, Keith Ludeman receives a non-pensionable salary supplement of 15% of Basic Salary which amounted to 75,000 during the financial year.
4 Nick Swift participated in the pensions salary sacrifice arrangement operated by the Group during the year.
The notional contributions shown in the table above are those he would have paid had he not participated in the salary sacrifice arrangement.
For and on behalf of the Board Sir Patrick Brown, Chairman of Remuneration Committee 2 September 2009 58 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
