Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee Chairmans Introduction Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present Heritages Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2009 for which we will be seeking approval from shareholders at our AGM in June.
As you will see, we have enhanced the level of disclosure included in the Remuneration Report to reflect evolving best practice and to facilitate continued dialogue with our shareholders.
The past year has been an exciting one for Heritage as we crystallised value with the disposal of our Omani interests and prepare to dispose of our Ugandan interests.
We also experienced continued operational success with the discovery of the Miran West Field in Kurdistan.
In addition, the past year saw a number of corporate governance developments in response to the global financial turmoil, with a particular emphasis on executive reward policies and practice, which the Committee has considered.
Against this background, the Remuneration Committee has continued to monitor the executive reward policy first established during 2008, and its application, to ensure that both remain appropriate.
As part of this process, the Remuneration Committee has: reviewed the operation and structure of the annual bonus plan: decided to enhance the level of disclosure provided in the Remuneration Report: had its performance and effectiveness assessed as part of the wider Board evaluation process described in the corporate governance section of our annual report: and considered the likely behavioural impact of the remuneration policy and, in particular, the short and long-term incentive structures, on the risk taking attitude of senior executives.
We believe that our executive reward policy remains appropriate and as a result have made no fundamental changes, other than those described above.
As per last years Remuneration Report, salaries remained frozen during the year and no further awards of shares under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP were made to the Executive Directors.
The Terms of the LTIP were not changed.
Pension and benefit provisions also remained unchanged.
We will keep our policy under review throughout 2010 as our business evolves and new corporate governance developments occur.
The rest of the report provides more detail on our remuneration arrangements.
John McLeod Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 29 April 2010 55 Remuneration Report continued Introduction In addition, the Remuneration Committee has access to external This report has been prepared with reference to the UK Large and advice as required.
During the year, the Committee continued to Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports receive independent advice from external executive reward Regulations 2008 the regulations and meets the relevant consultants, the Hay Group, on matters under consideration by the requirements of the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules.
In addition, the Hay Group facilitated the Boards report has, therefore, been divided into different parts for unaudited assessment process as described in the corporate governance and audited information.
section of the annual report and provided updates on best market practice.
No other services were provided to the Company by the In preparing this report, consideration has also been given to the Hay Group during the year.
Combined Code and the Guidelines of the Association of British Insurers on Executive Remuneration Policies and Practices.
Advice Remuneration Committee Assessment has been sought from Hay Group which is a founder member of the As part of the overall Board assessment process described in the Remuneration Consultants Group and is committed to upholding its corporate governance section of the annual report, the operation, principles.
structure and performance of the Remuneration Committee and its members were assessed during the year.
This process, which was A resolution to approve the report will be put to shareholders at the facilitated by the Committees external advisers, the Hay Group, Annual General Meeting on 17 June 2010. took into account the views of both member and non-member Directors of the Committee.
Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were The outcome of the review confirmed that the Remuneration John McLeod Chairman, General Sir Michael Wilkes and Salim Committee discharges its responsibilities effectively.
The Committee met once during 2009 with all members in attendance.
Executive Reward Policy During the year, the Remuneration Committee has continued to All members of the Remuneration Committee are considered by the monitor the executive reward policy and principles which were put Board to be independent as explained in the corporate governance in place in 2008 to ensure that they remain appropriate.
These section of the annual report on page 50. broad principles, which the Remuneration Committee believes remain appropriate in the current climate, are designed to ensure The Remuneration Committees main responsibilities are to: that the Company: set the remuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive Directors has an executive reward framework to help drive future value and senior executives: growth: assess and determine total compensation packages available to retains and, when necessary, recruits management talent of the the Executive and Non-Executive Directors: required ability and experience: monitor the remuneration of senior management other than the provides overall levels of reward that are appropriate for the Executive Directors whose remuneration it sets: Company given its Premium Listing in London, international determine policy and scope for pension rights and any operations and the global nature of the oil and gas industry: compensation payments and ensure compliance with the follows, insofar as possible, both UK as well as Canadian Combined Code in this respect: and standards of corporate governance in so far as that such make recommendations to the Board for its approval, and that of standards support and enhance the Companys ability to shareholders, on the design of long-term incentive plans and generate value for shareholders: and make recommendations for the grant of awards to executives maintains a balance between fixed base package and benefits under such plans.
and variable reward short and long-term incentives that is appropriate and motivates the right behaviours see chart on In setting the remuneration policy and total compensation package page 57. levels for Executive Directors and other senior executives, the Remuneration Committee gives consideration to remuneration It remains the Remuneration Committees opinion that, in light of the policy and levels for the wider employee population.
In particular, areas where the Company operates, the relatively small number of the Remuneration Committee considers how pay levels in the wider Executive Directors at the Company and the roles conducted by the employee population compare against the market and is mindful of Executive Directors that an upper quartile level of total reward is the pay differentials between top executives and roles at different appropriate.
However, upper quartile levels of reward are only levels in the structure.
available mainly through participation in the LTIP for truly exceptional levels of performance.
The Remuneration Committee has clearly defined terms of reference which conform with the requirements of the Combined Overall levels of reward are benchmarked against three relevant Code and are available on the Companys website.
comparator groups: UK Oil & Gas companies excluding those significantly larger than Advice to the Remuneration Committee the Company : The Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Chief an international comparator group comprising companies of a Financial Officer provide internal support to the Remuneration similar size and scale to Heritage: and Committee and attend meetings at the Committees invitation the FTSE 250. except where matters associated with their own remuneration are being discussed.
Within this overall reward policy, the manner in which each component of executive reward is aligned to the overall business strategy is shown in the following table.
56 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Base Package Component The table below shows the annual base packages of the Executive of Executive Policy for Alignment to Directors during 2009.
Following the introduction of the LTIP in Reward Executive Directors Corporate Strategy 2008, the Remuneration Committee implemented a two year base Base Package Typically reviewed Market competitive package freeze for the Executive Directors and, therefore, salaries annually pay levels enable us did not increase in 2009.
Two year freeze to recruit and retain implemented in 2008 the best available Name 2009 Base Package Benchmarked against talent for Heritage Anthony Buckingham 675,000 UK & International Paul Atherton 500,000 Oil & Gas companies and the FTSE 250 The Remuneration Committee reviewed the salaries of the Annual Bonus Maximum of 300% of Promotes a highExecutive Directors during 2010 and a 5% increase was granted base package performance culture effective 1 April 2010.
Based on corporate Ensures that the targets no individual Executive Directors Annual Bonus element are focused on the The annual bonus, payable wholly in cash, has a maximum limit of goals of the 300% of base package and is payable to Executive Directors solely Company for the achievement of corporate targets.
There are no individual Long-term One-off award Aligns our Executive targets for Executive Directors.
At other levels in the Company, Incentive covering a three year Directors with our targets which relate to performance in an individuals geographical period of annual shareholders area of operation or function are utilised but, for any bonus to be grants Absolute growth paid out at all, a minimum level of Company performance must Three year requirement be achieved.
performance period ensures rewards are Relative Total only available if the The Remuneration Committee recommends the level of annual Shareholder Return share price bonuses paid to the Executive Directors.
The level of annual TSR performance increases bonuses is based on corporate targets.
Based upon the targets underpinned Upper quartile achievements of the Company during the year, including the by requirement for rewards are successful drilling campaigns in Uganda and Kurdistan, increase in 20% share price available only for the share price, sale of the Omani assets and potential sale of the growth exceptional levels of Ugandan interests, the bonus awards for the Executive Directors in None of the awards performance 2009 is 150% of base package, reflecting another year of excellent vest unless TSR performance.
performance is close to the upper quartile During the year the Company achieved its targets.
Consequently it has been agreed that a payment of 150% of base package will be Pension Allowance of 10% of Below market lower paid to the Executive Directors.
base package quartile and in line with our Long-term Incentives performance-driven 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan culture The LTIP was approved by shareholders in June 2008.
The main features of the awards to Executive Directors are: Balance Between Fixed and Performance-Related Reward one-off awards of performance shares reflecting the equivalent of The charts below show the balance between fixed base package three years of award: and benefits and variable bonus and long-term incentives a face value of 1,200% of base package for the Chief Executive elements of reward for each of the Executive Directors.
Officer and 800% of base package for the Chief Financial Officer, reflecting the equivalent of annual awards for three years: Components of Executive Directors Reward the performance conditions, measured over the three year period starting with the date of the award, are relative TSR versus a group CEO 28% 72% of international oil companies and a requirement for the share price to increase by at least 20% between the date of the award and the end of the vesting period: CFO 34% 66% none of the awards will vest unless comparative TSR performance is close to the upper quartile level of the comparator group: and Fixed Reward Variable Reward there is an additional holding period of one year following the vesting of the awards.
Fixed Reward includes base package and value of benefits including pension.
Variable Reward includes 2009 bonus and the annualised fair value of long-term incentive awards apportioned over the life of the LTIP.
57 Remuneration Report continued Awards vest according to the following schedule: The comparator group companies were selected on the basis of their size and scale of operations, market capitalisation and Proportion of Award Vesting geographic spread.
The original comparator group comprised the Typical UK following companies: TSR Performance vs. comparator group of 18 companies Heritage practice 3rd place the Upper Decile and above 100% 100% Aminex plc Imperial Energy plc Premier Oil plc 4th place 80% 100% Bowleven plc JKX Oil and Gas plc SOCO International plc 5th place the Upper Quartile 50% 100% Dana Petroleum plc Mariner Energy Inc. Stone Energy Corp. 6th place 30% 85% Dominion Resources McMoran Exploration Swift Energy Co. 7th place 0% 70% Inc. Co. 8th place 0% 55% Gulf Keystone Melrose Resources Tullow Oil plc 9th place 0% 40% Petroleum Ltd. plc 10th place the Median 0% 25% Hunting plc Oilexco Inc. Venture Production plc Below 10th place 0% 0% It is not planned to make any further awards to existing members of Long-term incentive award levels have been set with reference to the LTIP scheme before 2011, although awards may be made to the upper quartile of the Companys comparator groups.
However, new senior members of staff between 2009 and 2011. the vesting schedule is designed to only deliver the whole value of the award for truly exceptional performance, at a standard higher 2008 Replacement Share Option Scheme than that which is normal for the UK.
The additional performance Heritage Oil Corporation HOC implemented The Heritage Oil condition, requiring the share price to increase by 20% or more, is Corporation Plan the Original Plan following approval by its also above and beyond what is common in both the UK shareholders in 2004 and granted options under the Original Plan to and Canada.
its Executive and Non-Executive Directors and other employees and consultants at that time.
The grant of options included all the In the light of the performance conditions described above, the then current Executive and Non-Executive Board members and so Remuneration Committee believes that the award levels, which excluded General Sir Michael Wilkes and Salim Macki.
As a result of reflect the equivalent of annual awards for three years, are the Group reorganisation and subsequent listing on the Main appropriate for the Executive Directors because: Market of the LSE, all the Board members were entitled to retain a one-off award provides better alignment of the Executive their options under the Original Plan and exchange them for options Directors with current and potential shareholders following the to acquire ten Ordinary Shares of the Company for every one Companys reorganisation and listing on the Main Market of the Common Share they held under option.
The Original Plan was then LSE than would annual rolling awards: cancelled and on 18 March 2008, the Company adopted The a one-off award encourages sustained performance over the first Heritage Oil Limited 2008 Replacement Share Option Scheme three key years following the Companys listing in London.
Annual Replacement Scheme which is substantially in the same form as awards can have the effect of encouraging staggered or the Original Plan.
The purpose of the Replacement Scheme is to delayed performance, e. g. not maximising investments and act as a replacement to the Original Plan and to honour the options performance as soon as possible in any given year so as to granted under it by granting holders the option to purchase ensure that new awards benefit from any uplift such investments Ordinary Shares.
The Replacement Scheme is administered by the and performance will create.
The Remuneration Committee Board and no further options will be granted under it.
believes that it is in the best interest of shareholders for maximum value to be accrued as soon as possible: The maximum number of Ordinary Shares which may be issued under a one-off award covering three years of annual grant provides a the Replacement Scheme was 24,545,340, being the equivalent greater retentive effect than annual grants and ensures continuity number of shares required to replace the options granted under the in management following the Companys listing in London: and Original Plan that were still in existence prior to their cancellation.
whilst the Remuneration Committee is keen to move to UK standard annual grant patterns as soon as practicable, provided All options under the Replacement Scheme have now vested and to do so is in the best interests of shareholders, providing a the Company will not grant any further options under this scheme.
one-off award equivalent to three years of annual awards counterbalances the Remuneration Committees decision to Pensions remove annual vesting for long-term incentives, replacing it Executive Directors receive pension contributions of an annual with a three year vesting period and an additional one year amount equal to 10% of their base package into a personal pension holding period.
scheme nominated by the executive.
Other Benefits The Companys policy is to provide Executive Directors with private medical insurance, life insurance and school fees for dependents but no other benefits in kind which would be typical in the UK.
In addition, both Executive Directors are entitled to allowances of 100,000 Anthony Buckingham and 77,500 Paul Atherton to cover their living expenses.
58 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Shareholding Guidelines Non-Executive Directors At present the Committee has not established formal Executive The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but their Director shareholding guidelines as, in the opinion of the terms are set out in a letter of appointment.
Their terms of Committee, these would be superfluous at this time.
The Executive appointment may be terminated by each party giving three months Directors hold a substantial number of shares in the Company and notice in writing.
Michael Hibberd and Gregory Turnbull will be have interests in shares under various share incentive arrangements entitled to a change of control bonus of Cdn$75,000 plus a pro-rata as shown in the table below: amount of their previous years bonus multiplied by a share price performance factor in the event that HOC changes control.
Anthony Buckingham Paul Atherton Shares held 84,540,340 1,140,000 The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Shares vested under the 2008 Chairman and the Executive members of the Board.
The Replacement Scheme yet to be exercised 10,129,510 2,875,000 Companys policy is to set levels for Non-Executive Directors Interest in shares under the 2008 LTIP 2,347,826 1,159,420 remuneration so as to ensure that they are sufficient to attract, retain and motivate high quality directors.
Total 97,017,676 5,174,420 1 Notional value of shares at year end, 422,997,067 22,560,471 Non-Executive Directors annual basic fee levels for 2009 and 2010 Total value as a multiple of base package 626 times 45 times are set out below.
Actual fees paid for the year ended 31 December 2009 are shown in the Directors Emoluments table on page 60.
1 The full vesting of 2008 LTIP and share options is assumed.
Cost of exercise is 14,520,199 for Anthony Buckingham and 3,433,750 for Paul Atherton.
2010 2009 Michael Hibberd 120,000 80,000 Service Agreements Salim Macki 80,000 80,000 The Executive Directors service agreements with the Company are General Sir Michael Wilkes 80,000 80,000 for no fixed term.
In normal circumstances, the agreements may be Gregory Turnbull 80,000 50,000 terminated by the Company giving no less than 24 months notice John McLeod 80,000 50,000 and the Director giving six months notice.
These arrangements Additional fee for each day worked were in place during their time as Executive Directors of HOC and 1 in excess of the agreed 20 days per annum 2,000 2,000 were inherited by the Company.
The Board feels that these notice periods were appropriate to recruit and retain the Executive 1 In 2009 each Non-Executive Director received further fees in respect of an additional Directors.
The Board recognises that these arrangements are not in ten days worked due to the aborted transaction.
line with current UK market practice.
The Company has discussed the Executive Director employment contracts with external advisers With the exception of General Sir Michael Wilkes and Salim Macki, and internally within the Remuneration Committee.
After taking all of the Non-Executive Directors will be entitled to a payment of these views into consideration, the Company has decided, for Cdn$75,000 in the event they are asked to resign from the Board of commercial reasons, to retain the existing Executive Director notice HOC in any event other than as a result of a change of control.
period structure because of their importance to the business at this General Sir Michael Wilkes received a payment of 50,000 on stage in its development.
We believe that this policy protects the joining the Board of the Company.
No other Director received this interests of our shareholders.
form of payment on joining the Board of the Company.
Executive Director Date of Unexpired Notice Period Notice Period During 2009, Michael Hibberd, Gregory Turnbull and John McLeod Contract Term by Company by Director received fees of Cdn$22,500 per annum from HOC for acting as Anthony 28 March Rolling 24 months 6 months Directors of that company.
From 2010, the annual fees paid by Buckingham 2008 Contract Heritage Oil Plc are reduced by the monthly fees paid by HOC.
Paul Atherton 28 March Rolling 24 months 6 months 2008 Contract Terms of appointment and re-appointment are set out below: Subsequent In the event of a change of control of the Company, if the Executive Date of Notice Initial Term of term of Directors resign or the Company terminates their appointment Non-Executive Director Contract Period Appointment appointment within 24 months of such an event, they will each be entitled to an Michael Hibberd 28 March 2008 3 months 2010 AGM 3 years immediate payment in lieu of notice of a sum equivalent to three Gregory Turnbull 28 March 2008 3 months 2009 AGM 3 years times their annual base package.
In addition, they will be entitled to John McLeod 28 March 2008 3 months 2009 AGM 3 years a payment of Cdn$75,000 in the event they are asked to resign General Sir from the Board of HOC in any event other than as a result of a Michael Wilkes 28 March 2008 3 months 2011 AGM 3 years change of control.
The Company also may terminate the Salim Macki 12 August 2008 3 months 2009 AGM 3 years agreements and make payments in lieu of notice.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Companys Currently the Executive Directors service contracts do not provide pension arrangements.
Although they have previously received for mitigation in the event of early termination.
The Executive grants of options, they will not receive any further grants or Directors do not have service contracts with any Group subsidiary.
participate in any other long-term incentive arrangements.
59 Remuneration Report continued Performance Graph The following graph shows the Companys TSR since trading of the Companys shares began on the LSE on 31 March 2008 against the FTSE 250 Index.
The Remuneration Committee has selected the FTSE 250 Index as it represents a broad equity market index of which the Company forms a part of and therefore provides a good indication of the Companys general performance.
The figures also include living allowances of 100,000 Anthony Buckingham and 77,500 Paul Atherton but exclude pension contributions.
2 The Directors became entitled to emoluments payable by the Company from 28 March 2008.
Prior to this date, the Directors were only entitled to emoluments payable by HOC which was then the parent company of the Group.
3 During 2009 Michael Hibberd, Gregory Turnbull and John McLeod also received fees of Cdn$22,500 paid by HOC as Directors of that company.
These fees have been included in the above table.
4 The Non-Executive Directors charged an additional ten days time in 2009 for additional work incurred in connection with an aborted transaction.
60 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Performance Shares Conditional awards of performance shares were granted to Executive Directors on 19 June 2008 under the LTIP, subsequent to the Plans approval at the Companys AGM that year, as shown below.
Executive Directors Interests in Performance Shares As at 31 December 2009 Earliest Share price Number of vesting at date Director shares date of grant Anthony Buckingham 2,347,826 18 June 2011 345p Paul Atherton 1,159,420 18 June 2011 345p The table below sets out the direct and indirect interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company as at 29 April 2010: Percentage of Number of Voting Share 1 Director Ordinary Shares Capital Michael Hibberd 125,000 0.04% 2 Anthony Buckingham 84,540,340 29.4% Paul Atherton 1,140,000 0.4% Gregory Turnbull 350,070 0.12% John McLeod 20,000 0.01% General Sir Michael Wilkes 0 0% Salim Macki 138,752 0.05% 1 Includes Exchangeable Shares.
2 Anthony Buckinghams Ordinary Shares include the Ordinary Shares held by Albion as at the date of this document, a company owned and controlled by Anthony Buckingham.
No options were granted or lapsed during the year, but 50,000 options were exercised at a price of 1.43 per Ordinary Share.
The closing share price on 31 December 2009 was 4.36.
During the year the highest closing share price was 6.03 and the lowest was 1.62.
This report was approved by the Board on 29 April 2010 and signed on its behalf by: John McLeod Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 29 April 2010 61
