Directors remuneration report The Board presents its Remuneration Report to the members The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the of the Company.
In preparing this report and establishing its Human Resources Director of HMV UK Limited are normally policy the Board has given full consideration to, and follows the invited by the Remuneration Committee to attend meetings of the provisions of, the Combined Code, the Companies Act 2006 and Committee but are not present for any discussion about their own the relevant parts of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
In accordance with the Companies Act, the tables setting out Directors remuneration, benefits under long-term incentive General policy schemes, interests in the share incentive plan, pension The Companys remuneration policy aims to align the interests arrangements and Directors interests in share options of the of Executive Directors and other senior executives with those of Company on pages 29 to 32 have been audited.
It is the Remuneration Committees policy that on pages 24 to 28, 33 and 34 the Directors interests in shares on variable performance-related pay and incentives should account page 30 are not required to be audited.
for a significant proportion of the overall remuneration package of Executive Directors so that the remuneration of Executive Directors is aligned with the Groups performance.
Generally, for Constitution of the Remuneration Committee During the year under review, Roy Brown ceased to be the target performance the performance-related element accounted chairman of the Remuneration Committee on his retirement for about half of the total package.
For superior performance from the Board at the close of business on 22 April 2009 and this would rise to almost three-quarters of the total package.
Lesley Knox succeeded him as chairman of the Committee.
These figures exclude pension values, which can vary significantly The Remuneration Committee also comprises Christopher from person to person and from year to year.
The Committee Rogers, Philip Rowley and Andy Duncan all of whom the Board confirms that there are appropriate policies and procedures in considers to be independent.
The Committee meets as required place to monitor the size of potential awards.
not normally fewer than three times a year on behalf of the In setting the Companys remuneration policy, therefore, Board.
Its remit is to determine the Companys policy for executive the Remuneration Committee believes that the Company remuneration having regard to pay and employment conditions should provide: elsewhere in the Group, especially when determining annual salary increases, to determine the remuneration packages of the a competitive rewards, which will attract and retain high calibre Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and management necessary to enable the Company to operate in certain other senior executives that report to Board members, the highly competitive retail sector and which reflect individual including pension rights and compensation payments, and to responsibilities and experience: and oversee the implementation and operation of share incentive b incentive arrangements which are subject to challenging schemes.
The Committees terms of reference are available performance targets reflecting the Companys objectives on the Companys website, www.
and which motivate executives to focus on both annual and longer term performance.
Advisers The Remuneration Committee has appointed Towers Perrin Performance targets set for the incentive schemes are designed as its advisers in respect of executive salaries, incentives and to provide maximum awards for exceptional performance and employee share schemes.
Towers Perrin provides no other to place emphasis on the successful delivery of short-term services to the Company.
In addition, the Company appointed performance goals as well as ensuring that the Companys the following advisers: long-term initiatives are less dependent on annual performance.
The Remuneration Committee intends that Executive Directors a Capita Share Plan Services and Simmons & Simmons, basic salaries should be positioned at or around the median Solicitors on employee share schemes: level in the marketplace with the incentive arrangements b Watson Wyatt LLP and Bluefin Insurance Services Limited provided performance targets are met set in order to bring on pension matters: and overall remuneration into the upper quartile for the marketplace.
When assessing the marketplace, the Remuneration c Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP, solicitors, on employment Committee refers to survey data supplied by Towers Perrin, contracts and associated legal issues.
focusing on the companies in their database with broadly similar The Remuneration Committee also received advice from the revenues.
Salaries are however, currently below median.
As Human Resources Director of HMV UK Limited, who assisted the described below, base salaries were frozen in the first year of Remuneration Committee by providing recommendations on the the transformation plan and have been increased only modestly grants under the various incentive schemes and reviewing since then.
HMV Group plc 24 Annual report and accounts 2009 It is the Companys policy that no Executive Director should have Salary a fixed term service contract or notice period exceeding one The Remuneration Committee, taking into account each year, and that no Non-Executive Director should have a letter of Executive Directors performance, experience and responsibilities, appointment for a term of more than three years.
All the current determines the basic salary for each Executive Director.
Salaries Directors service contracts or letters of appointment comply with are usually reviewed with effect from 1 July each year.
Further details are found on page 33. three-year transformation plan, Executive Directors salaries were frozen in 2007, and with effect from 1 July 2008 their salaries were increased by 3%, which was in line with other Group Changes to remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee intends that remuneration policy employees.
With effect from 1 July 2009 salaries are expected should be, as far as possible, enduring, but also believes that to increase by 2%, again in line with other Group employees.
it is appropriate to keep it under review.
The 2009 10 financial year is the last year of HMVs three-year transformation plan.
Benefits in kind The structural changes in the entertainment markets in which Benefits in kind include provision of a car allowance, pension, the Group operates have meant the Group needs both to deliver medical and life insurance, permanent health insurance and operational excellence in the short term but also to develop new staff discount.
products and activities to drive the growth of the Group over the medium and longer term.
Following consultation with our major HMV Group plc Incentive Plan for Senior Executives shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has decided to make the HIPS some interim changes to the Executive Directors remuneration The HIPS comprises two elements i an annual nonfor the 2009 10 financial year only.
The Remuneration Committee pensionable performance-related cash bonus, a proportion of believes the combination of the changes described below which is deferred and paid in shares: and ii an award of shares balance the need to deliver the operational improvements for the under The HMV Performance Share Plan.
The HIPS is designed final year of the transformation plan which should be reflected to provide an incentive for senior management to achieve and through the PANI target with the development of new streams of exceed targets set by the Remuneration Committee.
future activities which should be reflected in share price growth Annual bonus The annual bonus the annual award awarded and performance against other retailers.
In relation to the shortto each Executive Director is equivalent to 60% of base salary for term bonus scheme, the increased deferral of bonus into shares on target performance and 120% at maximum, dependent on the together with the existing equity holdings of Executive Directors, performance of the Group and the achievement of key business clearly align the interest of Executive Directors with those of objectives KBOs.
The annual award comprises a payment in shareholders.
cash of two-thirds of the earned bonus, which is paid after the Details of the changes are given on pages 26 and 27 end of the financial year to which the performance relates, with and can be found in the accompanying letter to shareholders.
the remaining one-third payable in shares, the vesting of which is The Remuneration Committee will during the course of deferred for three years provided that the Executive Director the year revisit the Companys incentive arrangements for the remains in the employ of the Group.
Executive Directors and senior employees and will seek The performance targets are determined each year by the shareholder approval for any proposed changes at the 2010 Remuneration Committee.
For the year under review the Annual General Meeting.
performance targets were profit after notional interest PANI, which for Simon Fox and Neil Bright is Group profit before Components of the Executive Directors remuneration interest and tax and for Gerry Johnson is a combination of HMV Executive Directors remuneration is provided in the form of a Group and Waterstones profit before interest and tax, each combination of basic salary, an annual cash bonus, a proportion reduced by a 10% notional interest rate applied to the Groups of which is deferred for three years and paid in shares, and average capital employed, as well as the achievement of an award of shares under the HMV Performance Share Plan KBOs.
These performance targets were chosen because the further details of each are given on page 26.
Remuneration Committee believe they bring incentive levels closer to market norms and place greater emphasis on shortThe main components of the Executive Directors remuneration for the financial year under review were as follows: term operating performance which will grow shareholder value in the long term.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 25 Directors remuneration report continued If the target PANI is reached then, for the Executive Directors, a Re-balancing changes for 2009 10 sum equivalent to 45% of their salary is awarded and a further The Remuneration Committee has, after consultation with major 15% of salary is awarded if the KBOs are met.
No KBO payment shareholders, decided to make some changes to the structure of can be made to an Executive if the PANI performance is less than remuneration for 2009 10.
The overriding objective of these 90% of target.
The Remuneration Committee has carried out the changes is to support the delivery of improvements over the next assessment of whether these performance targets have been met 12 months and the development of new streams of activities to by reference to the audited accounts for the 52 weeks to 25 April drive growth thereafter.
The changes are as follows: 2009.
The bonus threshold of 90% of PANI had been exceeded the maximum annual bonus opportunity will be increased so that the bonus associated with KBO achievement could be from 120% to 150% of salary and the on-target bonus awarded.
As the PANI target was not met, no other bonus was opportunity will increase from 60% to 70% of salary.
Annual bonuses for Executive Directors, therefore, the proportion of bonus compulsorily deferred into shares for ranged from nil to 15% of salary.
three years will increase from the present one third to 43%.
Performance share awards At the 2006 Annual General Meeting, The cash amount which can be received at target thus the shareholders approved The HMV Performance Share Plan remains the same under both the old and the new schemes: the Plan.
Awards under the Plan are usually made in August bonus payments will be based exclusively on PANI each year.
Apart from exceptional circumstances, the Executive performance in 2009 10: Directors are granted an award of shares under the Plan at a level no greater than 200% of base salary as at the date of the award.
annual awards under the HMV Performance Share Plan will The awards vest after three years provided that the preset be reduced from 150% to 120% of salary, with the proportion performance criteria are met.
The Remuneration Committee sets of the award vesting on minimum target performance the performance criteria each year.
For the awards made in July reduced from 30% to 25%: 2008, an award will vest on the satisfaction of a target based on the Remuneration Committee has selected a new basic adjusted earnings per share EPS.
If the EPS in the performance measure to determine the vesting of shares financial year 2010 11 is less than 15.3p the award will not vest.
under the HMV Performance Share Plan PSP.
It has Mid point EPS is 17.0p at which point 65% of the award will vest.
If chosen HMVs relative Total Shareholder Return.
Shares will EPS is above 19.6p the award will vest in full.
The award will vest only vest if HMVs TSR is relatively strong against a basket of on a straight-line basis from 15.3p to 17.0p and then from 17.0p competitors and other retailers.
TSR reflects the development to 19.6p, with 30% of the award vesting on the achievement of the of the Groups longer term initiatives and balances the PANI minimum target.
These performance targets were selected target used for the annual bonus.
HMVs relative TSR will be because the Remuneration Committee believes they align the measured against an industry peer group of UK-listed interests of the Executive Directors with those of the Companys companies.
Some shareholders have requested the shareholders and place emphasis on the successful delivery of Committee to consider an appropriate underpinning short-term performance goals, as well as ensuring that the measure to support the TSR measure.
The Committee Companys long-term initiatives are less dependent on annual understands this concern and will ensure that when performance.
assessing the Companys relative performance and deciding Details of the awards made to the Executive Directors on the proportion of awards that should vest at the end of the appear on page 31. performance period, the Groups absolute performance over Share options No options were granted during the year under the period will also be taken into account.
review and the outstanding options held by the Executive Directors are set out on page 32.
HMV Group plc 26 Annual report and accounts 2009 The peer group companies, in alphabetical order, are: The maximum incentive opportunity, when short-term and longArriva plc term incentives are taken together, for Executive Directors will, Carpetright plc therefore, remain the same.
These interim changes will provide Debenhams plc additional focus on operational performance over the next 12 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc months and at the same time reflect the development of new DSG international plc streams of business to drive growth in the longer term.
Dunelm Group plc Enterprise Inns plc Share Incentive Plan GAME Group plc The HMV Group plc Share Incentive Plan the SIP is intended Greene King plc to allow the Company to align the interests of its UK employees Halfords Group plc including the Executive Directors, all of whom are eligible to Home Retail Group Plc participate more closely with the interests of shareholders.
J D Wetherspooon plc Under the SIP, UK employees may acquire Ordinary Shares Kesa Electricals plc in three ways.
Firstly, the Company can use the SIP as part of Kingfisher plc its broad incentive arrangements by awarding free shares to Marks and Spencer Group plc employees: in this regard an award of 120 free shares was made Marstons PLC to every eligible employee, including Mr Bright, on the Initial Millenium & Copthorne Hotels plc Public Offering.
There have not been any further awards of free Mothercare plc shares and there are no plans to award further free shares to any N Brown Group plc employees.
The free shares are held by a UK employee benefit Next plc trust the Trust, subject to the rules of the SIP.
Secondly, the Sports Direct International plc Company may invite UK employees to purchase Ordinary Shares, The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC known as Partnership Shares, and thirdly, the Company may, The Go-Ahead Group plc if it wishes, agree to match the shares purchased with additional The Restaurant Group plc shares, known as Matching Shares.
The Company has matched Whitbread PLC on a one-for-one basis since the inception of the SIP and WH Smith PLC these Matching Shares do not vest until the employee has completed one years service from the date of the award.
Threshold or median performance will trigger the vesting of All shares held in the Trust attract dividend shares which, except 25% of the PSP award, rising to full vesting at upper quartile in exceptional circumstances, are retained in the Trust for a and above on a straight-line basis.
No award will vest for TSR period of three years.
With effect from the next financial year performance below the median or threshold.
dividends will be paid in cash to members of the SIP rather than by way of further shares.
All Executive Directors participate in the SIP and their awards are set out on page 31.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 27 Directors remuneration report continued The Company reviews the awards of shares made under the various all-employee and executive share plans in terms of their effect on dilution limits and seeks to comply with the dilution limits recommended by the Association of British Insurers.
At the end of the financial year under review, the Company was within the dilution limits for the issue of new shares for all of its share plans, as set out in the rules of those share plans.
The Company operates a shareholding policy which requires the Executive Directors, and other senior executives, to build and retain a shareholding in HMV Group plc equivalent in value to 100% of their salary.
Performance graphs The graphs below show the percentage change in the total shareholder return from 24 April 2004 to the end of the financial year against both the FTSE 250 and the FTSE General Retailers Index, both of which the Board considers to be appropriate peer groups for the Company as the Company is a constituent member of both these indices.
Total Shareholder Return Graphs For the period 24 April 2004 to 25 April 2009 HMV Group plc 28 Annual report and accounts 2009 Pension arrangements Scheme, therefore, provides Mr Fox, Mr Bright and Mr Johnson For each Executive Director, only basic salary is pensionable.
with benefits of up to one-thirtieth of their respective capped Simon Fox, Neil Bright and Gerry Johnson are members of the salaries for each year of service.
HMV Group Pension Scheme, which is a contracted-out defined The Company made a contribution to a Self Invested Pension benefit scheme, providing them with benefits of up to one-thirtieth Plan SIPP for each Executive Director in lieu of pension of final pensionable pay for each year of service.
They are subject contribution above the cap.
to the Companys salary capping which was introduced in April In the event of death during employment, the dependants of 2006, which is currently 117,600.
The HMV Group Pension the Executive Directors would receive a pension and a lump sum.
Name Simon Fox Neil Bright Gerry Johnson Age as at 25 April 2009 48 46 48 Accrued pension at 25 April 2009 000 pa 10 39 14 Increase in accrued pension during the period or from date of appointment 000 pa 4 4 4 Increase in accrued pension during the period or from date of appointment net of inflation 000 pa 4 4 4 Transfer value of accrued pension at 25 April 2009 000 78 305 129 Transfer value of accrued pension at 26 April 2008 or date of appointment 000 46 195 61 Directors contributions during the period or from date of appointment 000 9 9 9 Increase decrease in transfer value over the year or from date of appointment net of Directors contributions 000 23 101 59 Transfer value of increase in accrued pension during the period or from the date of appointment net of inflation and Directors contributions 000 22 20 30 Notes: i Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year.
ii Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with guidance note GN11 issued by the Institute of Actuaries.
iii The value of the net increase or decrease represents the incremental value to the Director of his service during the year or from the date of his appointment, as appropriate, calculated on the assumption that service is terminated at the year end.
It is based on the accrued pension increase or decrease after an adjustment for inflation.
iv The change in the transfer value includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and Directors, such as stock market movements.
It is calculated after deducting the Directors contributions.
v Voluntary contributions paid by Directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
vi The figures above exclude contributions of 48,483 paid into Mr Brights SIPP, 92,519 paid into Mr Foxs SIPP and 45,113 paid into Mr Johnsons SIPP.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 29 Directors remuneration report continued Details of Directors remuneration Base salary, benefits in Total Total kind and fees Annual bonus remuneration remuneration 2009 2009 2009 2008 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Simon Fox 506 73 579 992 Neil Bright 326 23 349 717 Gerry Johnson 312 312 595 Non-Executive Directors Carl Symon 67 67 190 Robert Swannell 50 50 Roy Brown 49 49 65 Andy Duncan 5 5 Lesley Knox 97 97 40 Christopher Rogers 45 45 45 Philip Rowley 40 40 23 Total 1,497 96 1,593 2,667 Notes: i Taxable benefits in kind consist of private healthcare during the financial year under review.
ii At the end of the period under review the base salary for the Executive Directors was Simon Fox 489,250, Neil Bright 309,000 and Gerry Johnson 298,700. iii Carl Symon, Andy Duncan and Robert Swannell did not serve as Directors for the full 2008 09 financial year and their remuneration above reflects this accordingly.
iv One-third of the annual bonus earned in the year is deferred for three years and will be payable in shares.
See deferred annual bonus table on page 32. v The fees earned by Andy Duncan in respect of his Non-Executive directorship are waived by Mr Duncan and paid direct to charity.
The amount paid to charity for the year under review was 5,334. vi 76,487 of the fees noted above for Mrs Knox relate to Mrs Knoxs Chairmanship of the Board for the period from 5 September 2008 to 1 February 2009 inclusive.
Directors interests in shares The Directors who held office at the end of the financial period had the following interests beneficial and non-beneficial in the share capital of the Company in addition to the interests in executive share options and other employee share schemes set out on page 31 and 32: Ordinary Shares 26 April 2008 or as at the date 25 April 2009 of appointment Executive Directors Simon Fox 432,819 340,152 Neil Bright 314,368 307,800 Gerry Johnson 38,000 38,000 Non-Executive Directors Robert Swannell 70,000 40,000 Andy Duncan Lesley Knox 32,312 32,312 Christopher Rogers 5,580 5,580 Philip Rowley 17,150 17,150 For those Directors who served at the end of the financial year there have been no changes to the shareholdings since 25 April 2009 subject only to the participation by the Executive Directors in the SIP, details of which can be found on page 31.
HMV Group plc 30 Annual report and accounts 2009 Share Incentive Plan The Directors who served as Directors at the end of the year under review and who held shares under the SIP as at 25 April 2009 are as follows: Matching Shares Partnership awarded on a Shares monthly basis at Dividend Shares purchased by prices between purchased Total participants on a 110p144p using dividends Total SIP shares monthly basis at which will vest paid on Free, SIP shares held at prices between one year after the Partnership and held at 26 April 2008 110p144p date of purchase Matching Shares 25 April 2009 Simon Fox 3,202 1,180 1,180 240 5,802 Neil Bright 11,733 1,180 1,180 730 14,823 Gerry Johnson 5,074 1,180 1,180 347 7,781 Notes: i Simon Fox, Neil Bright and Gerry Johnson have continued to acquire Partnership Shares and be awarded Matching Shares on a monthly basis between 25 April 2009 and 29 June 2009 in accordance with the terms of the SIP.
These total 200 Partnership Shares and 200 Matching Shares each for Mr Fox and Mr Bright and 201 Partnership Shares and 201 Matching Shares for Mr Johnson.
Neither of these targets have been met and therefore the awards will not vest.
ii For the awards made in August 2007, an award will vest on the satisfaction of a target based on adjusted earnings per share EPS.
The EPS targets were set based on the Groups performance without the contribution of HMV Japan, which was sold during the 2007 08 financial year.
If the EPS in the financial year 2009 10 is less than 14.4p the award will not vest.
Mid point EPS is 16.0p at which point 65% of the award will vest.
If EPS is above 18.4p the award will vest in full.
The award will vest on a straight-line basis from 14.4p to 16.0p and then from 16.0p to 18.4p with 30% of the award vesting on the achievement of the minimum target, except where an award exceeds 150% of base salary, when only 25% of the award will vest on achieving the minimum target and 62.5% of the award will vest on the achievement of the mid point.
Following the share placing and the acquisition of 50% of Mean Fiddler Group which took place in the financial period under review, the minimum, mid point and maximum vesting EPS targets where amended to 14.1p, 15.6p and 18.0p respectively.
iii To support the three-year transformation plan launched in March 2007, the Committee, on a one-off basis for 2007, made some changes to the way in which remuneration arrangements were applied.
The changes required Mr Fox to purchase shares to the value of one times salary.
After three years, he may receive up to five shares for every one share purchased dependent on the achievement of the EPS performance target.
Mr Foxs co-investment arrangement was made under the rules of the Plan and replaced the regular 2007 Plan award.
As part of these arrangements, the share options granted to Mr Fox shortly after his appointment in September 2006 lapsed.
In addition, the Committee made an enhanced award under the Plan of 200% of base salary, this being within the limits of the Plan, to Mr Bright, Mr Johnson and other senior management to emphasise the importance of, and to further support the delivery of, the three-year transformation plan.
iv No shares vested in the year under review.
v The performance conditions for the 2008 awards are set out on page 26.. HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 31 Directors remuneration report continued Deferred annual bonus The following deferred bonus awards held by each person who was a Director of the Company at the end of the financial year under review are as follows: Number of Number of Number of shares held Number of shares vested shares held conditionally shares in the year and Number of conditionally as at conditionally Market price of Performance market price on shares lapsed as at Executive Directors 26 April 2008 awarded Date of award shares at award period ending vesting date in the year 25 April 2009 Simon Fox 153,721 8 July 2008 106.25p 30 April 2011 153,721 11,169 Neil Bright 44,677 8 July 2005 242p 26 April 2008 112.5p 33,508 110,957 8 July 2008 106.25p 30 April 2011 110,957 Gerry Johnson 80,443 8 July 2008 106.25p 30 April 2011 80,443 Notes: i These awards are linked to the annual bonus award which operated prior to the annual bonus award which was implemented during the previous financial year.
The deferred share awards usually vest three years following their grant, subject to the achievement of cumulative budgeted profit before interest and tax, after notional interest charged over capital employed over the three-year period and the performance of the individual over the same three-year period.
ii The release of shares to Mr Bright was made in accordance with the rules of the plan.
Executive share options The share options held by each person who was a Director of the Company as at the end of the financial year under review are as follows: Number of options at 26 April 2008 Number of Exercise or date of Granted Lapsed Exercised options at Exercisable Exercisable Date of grant price appointment in year in year in year 25 April 2009 from to Neil Bright 22 May 2002 167p 485,030 485,030 22 May 2005 22 May 2012 8 July 2005 242p 179,752 179,752 8 July 2008 8 July 2015 5 October 5 October 5 October Gerry Johnson 2005 242p 154,958 154,958 2008 2015 Notes: i Options to acquire shares under the HMV Group plc 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme the 2002 Scheme were previously granted on an annual basis, thus ensuring reward was spread over a number of years and was allied to the long-term growth in shareholder value.
The rules of the 2002 Scheme permit the granting of options to Executive Directors to a maximum of 300% of basic salary per annum.
Options were granted at the five-day average of the market value of the Companys shares on the date of grant.
Options granted under the 2002 Scheme can normally only be exercised after three years and then subject to the achievement of EPS targets imposed by the Remuneration Committee at the date of grant.
40% of the option shall be exercisable if the Companys adjusted basic EPS exceeds the growth in the Retail Prices Index by at least 3% per annum.
100% of the option shall be exercisable if the Companys adjusted basic EPS growth exceeds the growth in the Retail Prices Index by at least 7% per annum.
For all options granted to date, EPS was assessed on an adjusted UK GAAP basis.
Vesting will occur on a straight-line basis between these two points.
EPS was determined by the Remuneration Committee to be the appropriate criterion given its clear linkage with shareholder value as well as providing a clearly definable target for executives.
The Remuneration Committee assesses whether these performance conditions have been met by reference to the audited accounts.
There is no Remuneration Committee discretion to re-test the performance criteria in the event that they are not met.
ii No share options have been exercised in the year ended 25 April 2009 or between that date and the date of this report by any of the Directors who served at the end of the year under review.
iii The options granted in 2005 lapsed during the financial year.
iv The market price of an Ordinary Share as at 25 April 2009 was 144.5p, the highest market price for the year under review being 149.25p and the lowest market price being 86.25p.
HMV Group plc 32 Annual report and accounts 2009 Service agreements No Executive Director has a service agreement containing a notice period exceeding one year.
The Remuneration Committee has considered the notice periods and termination arrangements set out below in light of the Combined Code, and continues to believe they are appropriate for the Executive Directors given their seniority and value to the Company.
The service contracts in respect of the Executive Directors who served at any time during the period under review are summarised below: Date of Notice period Notice period service contract from Company from individual Simon Fox 18 July 2006 12 months 12 months Neil Bright 23 April 2002 12 months 12 months Gerry Johnson 8 September 2005 12 months 12 months Note: i The service contract under which Mr Johnson was appointed as Managing Director of Waterstones Booksellers Limited was the new model service contract as mentioned below and, therefore, remained in place on his appointment to the Board.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service Compensation for early termination agreements but have been engaged under letters of appointment.
The arrangements for early termination of an Executive Directors All are terminable by the Company without liability for service agreement are decided by the Remuneration Committee compensation.
All Non-Executive appointments are for an initial and will be made in accordance with the service agreement period of three years and can be extended for a subsequent provisions of each of the Executive Directors.
Each service period of three years.
The period of appointment for Lesley Knox agreement provides for a payment in lieu of notice on early is until 22 April 2010, to 30 September 2009 for Christopher termination to the Executive Director, which shall consist of base Rogers, to 30 September 2010 for Philip Rowley, to 1 February salary and the cash equivalent of all other benefits.
In the case of 2012 for Robert Swannell and to 12 March 2012 for Andy Mr Bright this would also include accrued bonus to date, if any.
The Remuneration Committee may exercise discretion over Robert Swannell, Andy Duncan and Lesley Knox, who are deferred bonus entitlement and or awards made under the standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General performance share plan in accordance with the rules of the Meeting, have letters of appointment as Non-Executive Directors appropriate schemes.
and Neil Bright, who is also standing for re-election at the In addition, Mr Brights service agreement contains provisions forthcoming Annual General Meeting, has a service contract that in the case of termination in breach of contract by the which provides for a notice period of 12 months.
Company or termination by the Executive Director following Copies of the Executive Directors service agreements and material breach of contract by the Company within one year of a the letters of appointment for the Chairman and each of the Nonchange of control of the Company, Mr Bright is entitled to Executive Directors are available at the registered office of the compensation calculated on the same basis as set out above Company and will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
save that, in addition, he shall be entitled to an amount equal to During the period under review, the Board carried out the annual bonus he would have received for the 12 months after a process for evaluating the individual Directors, the Board termination calculated on the basis of the Groups latest forecasts as a whole and each of the Board Committees.
Details of prior to the date of termination: the immediate vesting of all this performance evaluation process can be found in the outstanding deferred bonus awards, the enhancement of pension Corporate Governance Report on page 21. arrangements by increasing his pensionable salary by 12 months, the provision of all other benefits to which Mr Bright is entitled for a period of 12 months or the financial equivalent thereof and, subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, the vesting of any unexercised share options and awards made under the performance share plan.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 33 Directors remuneration report continued If payments for termination are dealt with in accordance with the Shareholder approval above provisions the restrictive covenants contained in Mr Brights A resolution to approve the Remuneration Report is being service agreement in favour of the Company will continue to proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
For and on behalf of the Board A new model service agreement was introduced in 2006 which does not include any change of control provisions and Lesley Knox requires the Executive Director to mitigate his loss.
This service Chairman of the Remuneration Committee agreement was used for the appointment of Messrs Fox and Johnson and will be used for any future appointments of 29 June 2009 Executive Directors.
Outside directorships No Executive Director may accept a non-executive directorship without the prior approval of the Board to ensure that they do not give rise to conflicts of interest.
During the period under review Neil Bright was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and chairman of the Audit Committee of Holidaybreak plc.
Mr Bright receives Non-Executive Directors fees of 38,500 for this directorship which he retains.
No other Executive Director held any non-executive appointments.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors remuneration The Chairman and the Executive Directors determine the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors for their services as members of the Board and its Committees in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration of the Chairman.
A review takes place in January every two to three years.
The policy is to pay fees at a market competitive level in comparison with companies of broadly similar size in terms of market capitalisation.
The Company takes into account each individuals responsibilities and time commitments when setting fee levels.
The Chairman, Robert Swannell, receives a basic fee of 200,000 pa.
The Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee of 40,000 pa. Christopher Rogers receives an additional 5,000 pa for chairing the Audit Committee.
Lesley Knox receives an additional 5,000 pa for acting as Senior Independent Director and for chairing the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the incentive or benefit schemes of the Group other than the provision of staff discount cards.
HMV Group plc 34 Annual report and accounts 2009
