1849 Black Sun ImpTob p55 p70:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:35 Page 55 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report We entered the 2009 reward review conscious of the economic background and widespread comment on executive remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee believes our remuneration practices link closely with our strategy, sustained performance and risk management.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Pierre Jungels Chairman Members Mr I J G Napier Dr P H Jungels until 7 September 2009 Chairman Mr M D Williamson Mr M H C Herlihy Mr M R Phillips, Mr C F Knott Company Secretary, acts as Ms S E Murray Secretary to the Committee Introduction Responsibilities We have prepared this Report in accordance with the Companies The responsibilities of the Committee include: Act 2006, Statutory Instrument 2008 410 The Large and determination of the Remuneration Policy for Executive Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Directors and members of the Chief Executives Committee: Regulations 2008 the Regulations and to meet the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
We describe recommendations to the Board in respect of the how the principles of good governance relating to directors Chairmans remuneration: remuneration set out in the Combined Code on Corporate determination of targets for performance related pay elements: Governance the Code are applied in practice.
policy for Directors pensions and contracts: The Regulations require our Auditors to report to shareholders on the audited information within this Report and to state whether, oversight of the overall policy for senior in their opinion, those parts of the Report have been prepared in management remuneration: accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Auditors opinion oversight of disclosures in the Remuneration Report: and is set out on page 73 and we have clearly marked the audited sections of the Report.
oversight of the Groups employee share plans.
This Report covers the following: Overview The Groups remuneration policy is intended to attract and 1 the Committees objectives, membership and main activities retain high quality employees throughout the organisation, in 2009: encourage loyalty and motivate them to achieve a high level of corporate performance in an increasingly competitive and 2 Directors emoluments and share interests: international environment.
3 a review of Imperial Tobacco Groups remuneration policy Performance related rewards reflect the business performance and practice: delivered by the Board and senior management in a year of significant achievement that included the integration of our 4 service agreements: Altadis acquisition and growth in mature and emerging markets.
For the financial year ending 30 September 2010 the overall 5 remuneration practices: structure of the Groups remuneration policy will remain unchanged.
However, to further motivate the achievement 6 Executive Directors pensions: and of strategic objectives the potential maximum bonus has been increased subject to the achievement of stretching, measurable 7 other information.
strategic objectives as discussed below.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 55 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p55 p70:Layout 1 1 12 09 18:02 Page 56 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued 1 Hewitt New Bridge Street also reviews the Groups remuneration The Committees Objectives, principles and practices against corporate governance best Membership and Main Activities practice and helps ensure adherence to the Groups Executive The Remuneration Committee operates under clear written Directors Remuneration Policy.
terms of reference, which can be found on our website Executive remuneration data provided by Towers Perrin and www.
The Remuneration Committee Boardex was also used to assist in benchmarking to ensure the formally confirms that throughout the year it has complied with consistent application of our executive Remuneration Policy.
the governance rules and best practice provisions relating to remuneration as set out in section 1 of the Code.
To ensure Committee members are fully aware of new developments and evolving remuneration best practice, The Committees key objectives are to: Hewitt New Bridge Street presented a review of developments ensure the Groups remuneration arrangements align with in UK corporate governance, focusing primarily on executive our values, support our corporate strategy and enhance pay governance.
performance as measured by our key performance indicators Solicitors Allen & Overy LLP are retained by the Company and KPIs, see pages 14 and 15: provide legal advice on our employee share plans.
Allen & Overy maintain a competitive remuneration package appropriate to LLP and Ashurst LLP also provide services to the Committee as the business environment in the countries in which we operate and when required.
Both Allen & Overy LLP and Ashurst LLP so we can attract, develop, retain and motivate a high quality provide other legal services to the Group.
pool of talented employees at all levels, whilst ensuring a clear The Company has appointed Alithos Limited to undertake total link between reward and performance: shareholder return TSR calculations and provide advice on all ensure that the remuneration policy motivates employees at all TSR related matters, including advice in respect of the bespoke levels to enhance our performance without encouraging them comparator group.
Alithos Limited provides no other services for to take undue risks: and the Group.
align senior executives remuneration with the interests of  LLP, our Auditors, perform agreed upon shareholders and other stakeholders, including customers procedures on earnings per share EPS calculations used in our and employees.
employee share plans to assist the Committee in determining the level of awards vesting.
Membership The Remuneration Committee, which met four times during Main Activities How the Committee met its Objectives the year, comprises five independent Non-Executive Directors The Board is ultimately accountable for executive remuneration together with the Company Chairman, Mr I J G Napier.
Mr Napier but delegates responsibility to the Remuneration Committee.
is specifically excluded from any matter concerning the details Our Remuneration Committee addressed the following main of his own remuneration or conditions of service.
The Committee issues during the year: members have no personal financial interest in the matters recommending that our Remuneration Policy for Directors discussed other than as shareholders.
remains unchanged: To reinforce the independence of the Committee, a standing item the annual review of the Chairmans, Executive Directors and at each meeting allows the members of the Committee to meet Chief Executives Committee CEC members remuneration: without the Company Chairman, any Executive Director or other manager being present.
As Mr Napier is approaching the ninth reviewing the executive bonus arrangements and targets: anniversary of his election to the Board, in line with corporate reviewing CEC members contracts: governance best practice, he stepped down from the Committee on 7 September 2009. overseeing Remuneration Policy for senior management and employees and our employee share plans: Advice and Support The Committee is provided with the following internal and external undertaking the annual review of the Committee Terms advice and support: of Reference: and Internal the disclosures in this Report.
During the year Mr G Davis Chief Executive and Mr R Dyrbus HOW THE COMMITTEE SPENT ITS TIME Finance Director were invited to attend Remuneration Committee meetings to answer questions.
Mr M R Phillips Company Secretary Executive Remuneration also attended meetings as secretary to the Committee.
They were Performance metrics all specifically excluded from any matter concerning the details including Bonus of their own remuneration or conditions of service.
Review of PDMR Contracts Oversight of share Mrs K A Turner Group Human Resources Director, the Group based incentives Compensation and Benefits Manager and the Deputy Company Other including best practice updates Secretary also provided internal support and advice on market and regulatory developments in remuneration practice and our employee share plans.
External To assist the Remuneration Committee in setting the remuneration package for each Executive Director and member of the Chief Executives Committee advice is provided by remuneration consultants Hewitt New Bridge Street and Towers Perrin, both of whom are engaged by the Committee as required.
Both are signatories to the draft Code of Conduct for Remuneration Advisers.
Neither provides any services to the Group other than those explained below.
56 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p55 p70:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:35 Page 57 2 DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2009 AUDITED 2009 2008 000 000 Executive Directors Base salary 2,612 2,460 Benefits 84 85 Pension salary supplement 256 230 Bonus 2,573 2,560 1 LTIP annual vesting 2,248 2,576 2 SMS annual vesting 1,453 1,877 9,226 9,788 Non-Executive Directors Fees 1,101 846 Benefits 115 1 Subsidiary Board fees 5 32 Consultancy fees 702 119 1,923 998 Former Executive Directors Salary of former Executive Director 283 Pension salary supplement of former Executive Director 16 Consultancy fees to former Executive Director 112 100 Subsidiary Board fees 81 58 1 LTIP vesting 893 2 SMS vesting 676 Benefits 11 193 2,037 Fees of former Non-Executive Directors Subsidiary Board fees 28 66 28 66 Total remuneration 11,370 12,889 Chief Executives Committee Base salary 1,342 906 Benefits 74 29 Pension salary supplement 99 43 Bonus 819 572 1 LTIP annual vesting 285 282 2 SMS annual vesting 369 215 2,988 2,047 1 Value of LTIP shares vesting in the year based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of exercise.
2 Value of SMS shares vesting on maturity based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of vesting.
2 Benefits in kind principally include the provision of a company car, health insurance and, in the case of Mr J-D Comolli, life insurance.
3 LTIP and SMS represent the value of awards vesting and LTIP options exercised in the year.
4 Mr D Cresswell retired from the Board on 31 December 2007.
However, Mr Cresswell received fees in connection with his Non-Executive Director appointments to Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group and Subsidiary Boards within the Altadis Group.
5 Mr J-D Comolli was appointed on 15 July 2008 and in addition to his Directors fees receives consultancy fees for services provided to the Group which will cease on 30 September 2010.
6 Mr A G L Alexander retired from the Board on 29 January 2008.
7 Mr B F Bich was appointed on 25 April 2008 and resigned on 16 September 2009.
8 Includes payment in respect of chairmanship of Board Committees at an annual rate of 15,000 in respect of the Remuneration Committee and 20,000 in respect of the Audit Committee.
9 Mr B Setrakian was appointed on 25 June 2008.
Until December 2008 he received remuneration in respect of Non-Executive appointments within Altadis USA business.
10 Mr S Huismans retired from the Board on 31 January 2006.
However, Mr Huismans received fees in connection with his Non-Executive Director appointments to Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group and Subsidiary Boards within the Altadis Group.
11 Mr S T Painter retired from the Board on 31 May 2000 but received fees on a consultancy basis and in connection with his Non-Executive Director appointments to Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group and Subsidiary Boards within the Altadis Group.
12 Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board on 27 June 2007.
Dr Rogerson completed a handover period and his employment terminated on 27 June 2008.
No sums were paid to any Director by way of taxable expenses allowances and no Directors waived their fees.
2 Mr B F Bich resigned on 16 September 2009.
3 Includes 377 ordinary shares and 1,198 American Depositary Shares ADSs, each ADS representing two ordinary shares.
There have been no changes in these holdings since 30 September 2009.
3 A Review of Imperial Tobacco Groups Remuneration Policy and Practice Remuneration Strategy We operate in a highly competitive, international environment.
Our remuneration strategy is to ensure that the level of remuneration and benefits offered attracts, develops, retains and motivates our talented employees at all levels across the Group, while ensuring a clear link between reward and performance.
We set out to provide competitive remuneration to all employees, appropriate to the business environment in the countries in which we operate.
Our remuneration arrangements align with and support our corporate strategy.
We continue to assign employees internationally to achieve the optimum balance of experience within the Group and facilitate employee development.
We have a cohesive reward structure in place to ensure all our employees engage with our strategic goals and strive to achieve them.
We align the interests of shareholders and employees at all levels by giving our employees the opportunity to build a shareholding in Imperial Tobacco Group through a number of employee share plans.
This alignment is reinforced further through the Groups executive share retention policy discussed on page 67.
Where possible our employees were offered participation in one or more employee share plans during the year, with in excess of 31 per cent of eligible employees participating in one or more of those plans.
Executive Remuneration Policy We consider it critical to align the remuneration package for Executive Directors and members of the Chief Executives Committee with the Groups strategy and risk.
In designing and reviewing the executive remuneration policy we aim to attract and retain high quality executives, and induce loyalty and motivate executives to achieve a high level of corporate performance in line with the best interests of shareholders.
We also recognise the need for the overall remuneration package not to be excessive, particularly given the current economic climate.
Our executive remuneration policy combines short-term and long-term rewards focusing on, and significantly weighted towards, performance related pay elements that take into account individual, functional and corporate performance.
This focus ensures executive remuneration supports our strategy by linking the major elements of remuneration to performance criteria linked to our KPIs.
The main components are base salary, annual bonus, share matching scheme SMS, long term incentive plan LTIP and pension benefits.
We continue to set base salary at around the median level of the comparator group of companies, whilst providing the Executive Directors and Chief Executives Committee members with the capacity to earn upper quartile total compensation on achievement of superior business performance.
Our comparator group of companies remains the FTSE 50, excluding companies in the financial and pharmaceutical sectors, with reference to the FTSE 30, excluding companies in the financial and pharmaceutical sectors.
To ensure our remuneration policy is firmly linked to our strategy and risk management, Executive Directors are required to build a significant stake in the Company through our share retention guidelines and the mandatory deferral of elements of annual bonus in the form of shares.
This link is further supported through the setting of bonus and other targets that reflect key business imperatives, for example earnings per share and profit growth, total shareholder return, debt reduction and volume growth.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 59 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p55 p70:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:35 Page 60 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued 4 Service Agreements Executive Directors Service Agreements The service agreements for Mr G Davis and Mr R Dyrbus were entered into at the time of the demerger of the Company from the Hanson Group.
The provisions dealing with compensation on termination following a change of control in their service agreements reflect that.
The service agreements for the other Executive Directors reflect the Companys established policy that Executive Directors have service agreements which are terminable on no more than one years notice and that there is no entitlement to the payment of a predetermined amount on termination of employment in any circumstances.
There are no liquidated damages provisions for compensation on termination within Executive Directors service agreements, except for those set out in the table below.
The Executive Directors service agreements do contain payment in lieu of notice provisions but these are at the Companys sole discretion.
We are unequivocally against rewards for failure.
Apart from the limited respects referred to above, the circumstances of the termination and an individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate loss are taken into account in every case.
Our policy is to stop or reduce compensatory payments to former Directors to the extent that they receive remuneration from other employment during the compensation period and that any such payments would be paid monthly in arrears.
Under the Rules of the LTIP and SMS outstanding awards vest on termination for certain reasons, including death, retirement, redundancy, the business or company in which the participant is employed ceasing to be part of the Group or on a change of control.
Awards vest on a time-related pro rata basis and are subject to satisfaction of relevant performance criteria.
If, however, the termination of employment is for a reason other than one of those specified in the relevant rules, an individuals full awards lapse.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE AGREEMENTS Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date Compensation on termination following a change of control Mr G Davis 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks notice Payment of a liquidated sum calculated by reference to benefits receivable during the notice period Mr R Dyrbus 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks notice Payment of a liquidated sum calculated by reference to benefits receivable during the notice period Mr G L Blashill 28 October 2005 Terminable on 52 weeks notice No provisions Mrs A J Cooper 1 July 2007 Terminable on 52 weeks notice No provisions Policy in Respect of Remuneration from External Board Appointments We recognise that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the Executive Director concerned and the Company.
At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such non-executive directorship.
Each serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as the chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
The Executive Directors who held such appointments during the financial year were Mr G Davis, who serves on the Board of Wolseley plc and received fees of 71,800, and Mrs A J Cooper, who serves on the Board of Inchcape PLC and received fees of 10,000.
Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors During the year, fees for Non-Executive Directors, and chairmanship fees in respect of the Remuneration and Audit Committees, were reviewed by the Board as a whole.
The review took into account market practice with reference to the comparator group on page 59.
The Chairmans remuneration was determined by the Board following recommendation from the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were not permitted to take part in discussions relating to their own remuneration.
With the exception of reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with their directorship of the Company, Non-Executive Directors receive no other material pay or benefits.
They are not eligible to participate in the Groups employee share plans, annual bonus schemes and are not eligible for pension scheme membership.
During the year Mr Comolli, however, received pension payments relating to his former executive position within the Altadis Group.
To align further the interests of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors with those of shareholders, a proportion of their fees is applied to purchase shares in the Company.
These shares are held by a nominee during the term of their directorship.
Up to the date of his resignation Mr Bich elected to apply his entire Directors fees, after statutory deductions, to the purchase of shares in the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association enable the Board to set the remuneration of Directors within the limits set by shareholders.
The current aggregate limit is 2.0 million and the aggregate amount paid in the financial year was 1.1 million.
Executive Directors are remunerated in respect of their executive appointments, under the terms of their service contacts, and receive no additional fees for serving as directors.
Following his retirement from the Board in January 2006, Mr S Huismans remains a member of Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma group.
He was also appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Altadis, S. A. upon its acquisition by the Group until 5 November 2008.
Mr S Huismans receives additional remuneration for fulfilling such non-executive roles.
Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements with the Company but the terms of their appointment are recorded in letters of appointment which are available for viewing at our registered office during normal business hours and prior to and at the AGM.
In line with our annual review policy the Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment were reviewed and confirmed by the Board on 2 February 2009.
Under the terms of our Articles of Association Non-Executive Directors stand for election at the first AGM following appointment and are subject to re-election by shareholders every three years.
There are no provisions regarding notice periods in their letters of appointment which state that the Chairman and Non-Executive Director will only receive payment until the date their appointment ends and, therefore, no compensation is payable on termination.
The letters of appointment detail the time commitment expected of each Non-Executive Director.
60 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 5 Remuneration Practices PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL ACTUAL REMUNERATION: FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR TO 30 SEPTEMBER 2009 Salary Mr G Davis Pension Salary Supplement Benets in kind Mr R Dyrbus Bonus SMS LTIP Mr G L Blashill Mrs A J Cooper 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 2008 2009 REMUNERATION POLICY Element Objective Award Level Performance Criteria Performance Period Base salary Attract and retain high Median of FTSE 50 N A N A performing individuals excluding companies in reflecting market value of the financial and role and executives skills pharmaceutical sectors and experience.
with reference to the FTSE 30 excluding companies in the financial and pharmaceutical sectors.
Annual bonus Incentivise delivery of Maximum percentage Financial Targets 100% 1 year Group objectives and of base salary.
base salary Chief Executive enhance performance, Cash element: and Finance Director, 75% including as measured by Chief Executive and other Executive Directors.
our key performance Finance Director first Strategic Targets indicators discussed on 100%, other Executive 25% base salary for pages 14 and 15.
Non-matchable deferred 3 year shares element: retention period up to an additional 25% of base salary.
Share matching Incentivise growth in Group May elect to invest some or Adjusted EPS growth.
3 years scheme EPS adjusted for certain all of gross cash element of items and align with the annual bonus in shares.
These can be matched on a 1:1 basis.
Long term Incentivise long-term Percentage of base salary: 3 elements 50% adjusted 3 years incentive plan delivery of EPS and TSR Chief Executive 200%, EPS growth, 25% TSR vs adjusted for certain items Finance Director 150%, FTSE 100, 25% TSR vs and align with interests other Executive comparator group.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 61 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p55 p70:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:35 Page 62 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued Base Salary The Remuneration Committee reviews base salary annually following detailed consideration of a number of factors including individual responsibilities, performance, market value of the relevant executive and external market data.
In line with our Remuneration Policy base salary is set within a range around the market median of the comparator group.
Base salary is the only element of the package used to determine pensionable earnings.
When setting base salary the Remuneration Committee is provided with external benchmarking data compiled by Towers Perrin.
The Committee is also provided with data in respect of the executives overall package so it can be benchmarked against the comparator group.
This data also enables the Committee to review the effect of any change in base pay on the executives overall package.
Annual base salary increases for Executive Directors, effective 1 October 2009, were three per cent.
In reviewing base salaries, the Committee considered the current economic environment, salary data in respect of the FTSE comparator group, the levels of 2009 base salary inflation for executives within the tobacco and consumer goods sectors and the levels of base salary increase for our other employees.
Annual Bonus For the financial year ended 30 September 2009 the potential maximum bonus was 125 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 100 per cent for other Executive Directors.
The performance targets for the year were based on a matrix comprising adjusted earnings per share EPS and debt, together with stringent, quantifiable strategic objectives including volume growth and criteria related to delivery of synergies from the Altadis integration.
They are not disclosed as they are considered to be commercially confidential.
During the year we delivered adjusted EPS of 161.8 pence up 18 per cent.
In addition, the strategic targets were met in part resulting in bonuses, as detailed in the table on page 58, being awarded to the Executive Directors.
These payments represent 106.5 per cent of the Chief Executives and Finance Directors base salary and 84.8 per cent in respect of the other Executive Directors.
Cash bonuses were also earned by other senior managers for achieving relevant performance targets for the financial year.
Any bonus earned up to 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 75 per cent for other Executive Directors is paid in cash and is eligible for investment into the Share Matching Scheme as detailed below.
Any bonus payable in excess of this level is paid in ordinary shares which the Director is required to retain for a minimum of three years.
These ordinary shares are not eligible for investment in the Share Matching Scheme.
For the financial year ending 30 September 2010, the Committee has determined that the maximum annual bonus will increase to 150 per cent and 135 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director respectively both 125 per cent previously, 135 per cent of base salary for the Chief Operating Officer previously 100 per cent and 120 per cent for the Group Sales and Marketing Director 100 per cent previously.
Additional stretching and quantifiable performance targets, aligned to the Companys growth strategy, will accompany the change in maximum bonus opportunity.
The bonus increment will be deliverable only in deferred shares that the Executive Director must retain for at least three years.
These deferred shares are non-matchable and are not eligible for investment in the Share Matching Scheme.
The higher bonus opportunity remains below the market norms for FTSE 50 companies of similar size and complexity to Imperial Tobacco, which are generally in the range of 150 per cent to 200 per cent of base salary.
In support of the Groups key performance indicators, as set out on pages 14 and 15, the Committee has determined that, for the financial year ending 30 September 2010, up to 100 per cent of salary 85 per cent for the Group Sales and Marketing Director can be earned for achieving financial targets based on a matrix including growth in adjusted earnings per share and reduction of adjusted net debt.
The remainder of the annual bonus can be earned for performance against other stretching, quantifiable targets, in important strategic areas such as volume growth.
No element of the bonus is guaranteed.
Share Matching Scheme SMS Under the SMS, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, the Executive Directors and the majority of the Groups management are invited to invest any proportion of their gross bonus capped at 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 75 per cent for other Executive Directors in our shares.
For the financial year ending 30 September 2010 the cap will be 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer and 85 per cent for the Group Sales and Marketing Director.
The shares are held by a nominee administered by the Employee Benefit Trust.
Provided the shares lodged are left with the nominee for three years and the participant remains an employee within the Group, they will be matched on a one for one basis.
Employees can exercise their vote in respect of shares held in the nominee by giving written instructions to the nominee.
In respect of investments made by Executive Directors under the SMS a performance criterion is applied such that matching only occurs if the Group has achieved real average annual EPS growth in excess of three per cent after adjusting for UK inflation Real Annual EPS Growth over the three year retention period.
Measurement of the performance criterion is based on the same protocol as that applying to the LTIP.
There is no opportunity to re-test if the performance criterion is not met.
In setting the performance criterion for SMS awards, we have decided the EPS criterion reflects our strategy to create sustainable shareholder value.
For the financial year ending 30 September 2010 we have extended the performance criterion to apply to matching shares in respect of the Chief Executives Committee.
Under the rules, should Imperial Tobacco Group PLC be acquired the performance period would end on the date of acquisition.
Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro rata basis subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criterion.
Share price on date of grant adjusted from 17.52 following June 2008 rights issue.
Share price on date of grant adjusted from 21.96 following June 2008 rights issue.
Share price on date of grant adjusted from 23.97 following June 2008 rights issue.
There have been no changes in any Executive Directors contingent rights since 30 September 2009.
During February 2009 annual bonuses earned in the financial year to 30 September 2005 and lodged under the SMS for a three year period matured, providing matched shares for participants on a one for one basis.
In respect of annual bonuses earned in the financial year to 30 September 2008 and paid in December 2008, the Executive Directors elected, in February 2009, to invest their entire bonus in the form of our shares under the SMS.
These will be matched on a one for one basis provided they are left in the SMS for three years, the participant remains an employee within the Group and the Company has achieved in excess of three per cent Real Annual EPS Growth over the retention period.
This performance criterion and the award policy and vesting schedules were reviewed by the Committee during the year and deemed to remain appropriate.
These matched shares are shown within contingent rights arising above.
It is anticipated that in February 2010 the Executive Directors will again invest their entire eligible annual bonus in the SMS.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Annual conditional awards are made under the LTIP to Executive Directors and other senior management.
These awards vest three years after grant and are subject to satisfying the appropriate performance criteria over the relevant three year performance period.
All grants are at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and no employee has a right to receive an award.
Awards granted prior to November 2005 were equivalent to 75 per cent of base salary for all Executive Directors and at a lower level for other senior management.
Following the comprehensive remuneration review in 2004, and subsequent shareholder approval at the 2005 AGM, awards made in November 2005, November 2006, October 2007 and November 2008 were equivalent to 200 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive, 150 per cent for the Finance Director and 100 per cent for the other Executive Directors with awards at a lower level for other senior management.
Current Structure From November 2005 the performance criteria for all awards were split into three elements.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance criteria at its meeting in September 2009 and were satisfied that they remain appropriate notwithstanding current market conditions.
The three elements are as follows: First Element Fifty per cent of the award has a performance criterion based on average growth in adjusted earnings per share based on an agreed protocol EPS, after adjusting for inflation over the period of the award.
At the Remuneration Committees request, our Auditors perform agreed upon procedures on the calculations.
Twelve and a half per cent of this element i. e. 6.25 per cent of the total award IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 63 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p55 p70:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:35 Page 64 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued vests if Real Annual EPS Growth equals three per cent and 100 per cent of this element i. e. 50 per cent of the total award vests if Real Annual EPS Growth equals or exceeds 10 per cent.
Between these two points this element vests on a straight-line basis.
Second Element Twenty five per cent of the award has a performance criterion based on total shareholder return TSR relative to the FTSE 100 Index as described below.
The performance criterion for this element is based on a sliding scale depending on TSR achieved over the relevant period.
No vesting of this element occurs unless the Companys TSR ranks it in the top 50 of the companies of the FTSE 100 Index.
At this performance threshold 30 per cent of this element i. e. 7.5 per cent of the total award vests.
If the return ranks the Company in the top 25 of the Index this element i. e. 25 per cent of the total award vests in full.
Between these thresholds this element vests on a straight-line basis.
Third Element Twenty five per cent of the award has a performance criterion based on TSR relative to a bespoke comparator group as described below.
The performance criterion for this element is also based on a sliding scale depending on TSR achieved over the relevant period.
No vesting of this element occurs unless the Companys TSR exceeds that of the bottom six companies constituting a comparator group comprising 12 tobacco and alcohol companies as detailed below.
At this performance threshold, 30 per cent of this element i. e. 7.5 per cent of the total award vests.
If the return ranks the Company in the top three of the comparator group, this element i. e. 25 per cent of the total award vests in full.
The comparator group for the November 2009 award is: AB InBev Altria Group Inc. British American Tobacco PLC Carlsberg A S Diageo PLC Heineken N. V. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Japan Tobacco Inc. Philip Morris International Inc. Pernod Ricard S. A. Reynolds American Inc. SABMiller PLC During the year Hewitt New Bridge Street was instructed to review the methodology used in the TSR calculations and submit recommendations for consideration.
The review was undertaken to ensure that relative TSR is measured in a fair and equitable way and, as far as possible, reflects the underlying performance of each company within the comparator group.
In particular, the revised methodology focuses on the bespoke comparator group which, due to its size, is highly sensitive to small differences in TSR.
The principal changes approved by the Remuneration Committee were: if a company within the bespoke comparator group is delisted during the performance period it will be replaced from the start of the performance period, in an agreed order, by a substitute company from a pre-determined list of Lorillard Inc, Fosters Group Limited and Molson Coors Brewing Company: if any company in the comparator group undertakes a rights issue during the performance period a cash neutral approach of selling a portion of rights to take up the balance of the rights commonly known as tail swallowing will be applied: and to remove the undue influence of changes in exchange rates, future TSR calculations will be measured in the currency in which each company is listed.
These changes were deemed necessary to ensure our Executive Directors and senior managers are incentivised to drive our underlying performance and to ensure that corporate actions or fluctuations in exchange rates do not unduly effect comparative underlying performance.
The TSR calculations use share prices of each comparator group company averaged over a period of three months to determine the initial and closing prices rather than those applying on a single day.
It is assumed that the cash flow of dividend payments is recognised on the date shares are declared ex dividend.
This method is considered to give a fairer and less volatile result as improved performance has to be sustained for several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations.
The TSR calculations are performed independently by Alithos Limited.
Each element operates independently and is capable of vesting regardless of the Companys performance in respect of the other elements.
During the year the Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance criteria, award policy, comparator group and vesting schedules for LTIP awards and decided that, notwithstanding the current conditions in financial markets, the three elements remain the most important measures that drive and measure sustainable improvement in shareholder value and support our longer-term KPIs discussed on pages 14 and 15.
The TSR criteria reflect comparative performance against the appropriate FTSE sector and the bespoke comparator group of companies.
The EPS criterion reflects a key part of the Groups strategy to create sustainable shareholder value.
Awards Under the Historical Structure For awards granted between December 2000 and November 2004, EPS growth was the sole performance criterion.
This was seen as focusing on the financial performance of the business, over which Executive Directors and senior management could exercise influence.
These awards vested on a sliding scale depending on average growth in basic EPS adjusted under the terms of the relevant protocol.
The EPS calculations were confirmed by the Auditors.
For awards granted between 2000 and 2002 no vesting occurred unless the Companys Real Annual EPS Growth was positive.
For awards granted in 2003 and 2004 no vesting occurred unless the Companys Real Annual EPS Growth exceeded three per cent.
Full vesting occurred if Real Annual EPS Growth was equal to or exceeded 10 per cent.
Between these two points the awards vested on a straight-line basis.
64 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p55 p70:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:35 Page 65 Vesting of Awards On vesting, a participant is granted an option to acquire the relevant number of shares.
The option may be exercised at any time up to the seventh anniversary of its date of grant.
Within this framework the vesting process in a number of jurisdictions outside the UK is amended to conform to local securities and tax legislation.
The performance periods are set prior to the granting of each annual award and there is no opportunity to re-test if any of the performance criteria are not achieved.
Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro rata basis subject to the achievement of applicable performance criteria.
The Remuneration Committee has absolute discretion to vary, but not increase, the extent to which any awards vest.
This ensures awards only vest, and vest at an appropriate level, if there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company, including the maintenance of long-term return on capital employed.
2 Exercisable, upon the payment of the option exercise price of 1 penny, between 11 November 2009 and 10 November 2016.
3 Exercisable, upon the payment of the option exercise price of 1 penny, between 1 November 2010 and 31 October 2017.
4 Exercisable, upon the payment of the option exercise price of 1 penny, between 27 November 2011 and 26 November 2018.
There have been no changes in any Executive Directors awards since 30 September 2009, other than the vesting of the November 2006 November 2009 award detailed below.
During the year, the November 2005 November 2008 award vested partially.
Based on EPS and TSR performance to the end of the financial year partial vesting of 93.9 per cent of the first element, 77.6 per cent of the second element and none of the third element vested on 25 November 2008.
The remaining shares under award lapsed.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 65 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p55 p70:Layout 1 1 12 09 17:06 Page 66 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW:GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued In respect of the November 2006 November 2009 award partial vesting occured on 10 November 2009.
Based on EPS and TSR performance to the end of the financial year, full vesting of the first and second elements and partial vesting of 76.7 per cent of the third element vested.
For illustrative purposes only, the share price on 6 November 2009, being the latest practicable date prior to publication, was 18.23 valuing the awards as follows: Award vesting Award vesting Award lapsing No.
of shares over Illustrative value No.
of shares which option granted 000 Mr G Davis 6,038 97,461 1,777 Mr R Dyrbus 2,874 46,396 846 Mr G L Blashill 1,410 22,760 415 Mrs A J Cooper 922 14,881 271 The value of any options exercised could vary significantly from that shown due to share price movements.
The Remuneration Committee regards the November 2007 November 2010 and the November 2008 November 2011 awards to be too distant from maturity to be included in the value projected above.
However, in respect of the November 2007 November 2010 award, based upon interim measurement calculations prepared as at 30 September 2009 full vesting of the first element, partial vesting of 93.9 per cent of the second element and 53.3 per cent of the third element would occur if this performance were maintained over the relevant performance period.
In respect of the November 2008 November 2011 award based upon interim measurement calculations prepared as at 30 September 2009 full vesting of the first element, no vesting of the second element and 53.3 per cent of the third element would occur if this performance were maintained over the relevant performance period.
The illustrative values based on the above share price and performance criteria are as follows: Illustrative awards vesting November 2010 November 2011 Illustrative value Illustrative value No.
of shares 000 Mr G Davis 76,658 1,397 89,011 1,623 Mr R Dyrbus 35,214 642 40,262 734 Mr G L Blashill 17,147 313 19,602 357 Mrs A J Cooper 17,351 316 20,248 369 Evidence of the Groups sustained performance on a TSR basis when compared with the FTSE 100 Index is set out below.
TOTAL RETURN INDICES IMPERIAL TOBACCO AND FTSE 100 200 150 Imperial Tobacco 100 FTSE 100 50 0 Sept 05 Sept 06 Sept 07 Sept 08 Sept 09 Sept 04 We view the FTSE 100 Index as providing the most appropriate and widely recognised index for benchmarking our corporate performance, which is a constituent of that index, and reflects the benchmark index used as an LTIP performance criterion.
66 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p55 p70:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:35 Page 67 Share Options The Company does not operate an executive share option scheme.
Executive Directors are, however, eligible along with all employees of the Company and participating subsidiaries of the Group, where possible to participate in our savings related Sharesave Plan.
Under this Plan options are granted to participants who have contracted to save up to 250 per month over a period of three or five years at a discount of up of 20 per cent to the closing mid-market price of an Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary share on the London Stock Exchange on the day prior to invitation.
In common with most plans of this type there are no performance conditions applicable to options granted under this Plan.
2 Any option not exercised by the end of the range of exercisable dates will expire.
3 Gains made on exercise, calculated as the difference between the exercise price and the market price on the date of exercise.
Aggregate gains during the year were 13,948 2008: 10,226.
There have been no changes in any Executive Directors share options since 30 September 2009.
Our middle market share price at the close of business on 30 September 2009, being the last trading day of the financial year, was 18.08 and the range of the middle market price during the year was 14.30 to 19.40.
Full details of the Directors share interests are available for inspection in the Register of Directors Interests at our registered office.
Award Dates Our policy is to grant awards under all our employee share plans on predetermined dates based on an annual cycle.
Executive Share Retention To ensure the interests of management are aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors and senior managers are required to meet minimum shareholding guidelines.
Over a period of five years from appointment they are required to build a holding in the Groups shares to a minimum value broadly equivalent to three times base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and twice base salary in respect of the other Executive Directors.
Other senior management are expected to invest at a level equivalent to between once and twice base salary, dependent upon grade.
Failure to meet the minimum shareholding requirement is taken into account when determining eligibility for LTIP awards.
All Executive Directors currently exceed their required shareholding.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 67 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p55 p70:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:35 Page 68 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued 6 Executive Directors Pensions Since 6 April 2006 A day the Groups UK pension policy, which applies to all current Executive Directors, provides the option to maintain membership of or, in respect of new employees, join the UK Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund the Fund or receive a salary supplement in lieu of membership of the Fund.
The Executive Directors are all members of the Fund, the principal defined benefit scheme operated by the Group.
For members who joined prior to 1 April 2002 the Fund is largely non-contributory with a normal retirement age of 60.
The Fund allows members to achieve the maximum pension of two-thirds of their salary at normal retirement age, usually after 32 years service.
Pension commutation to enable participants to receive a lump sum on retirement is permitted.
For death before retirement, a capital sum equal to four times salary is payable together with a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members expected pension at retirement.
For death in retirement, a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members pre-commutation pension is payable.
Dependant children will also receive allowances.
Pensions increase annually by the lesser of 10 per cent and the increase in the Retail Prices Index, together with an option under the rules to surrender part of a pension in order for the annual increase to be in line with the increase in the Retail Prices Index to a maximum of 15 per cent.
From 6 April 2006 a new tax regime was introduced by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC which abolished most of the detailed limits previously imposed on pension schemes and replaced them with a simplified approach.
Each member now has a Lifetime Allowance LTA, 1.75 million for retirements in the tax year 2009 2010 and a tax, called the lifetime allowance charge, is levied at retirement if the value of their pension benefit from all sources exceeds this amount.
For any member whose total benefit value on 6 April 2006 exceeded the LTA, transitional arrangements allowed them to register the higher value so that they would not be subject to a large retrospective LTA charge.
To qualify for this enhanced protection the member was required to opt out of Fund membership in respect of future service accrual in order to retain a final salary linked pension entitlement in respect of past service.
All Executive Directors earn benefits on the standard scale with a normal retirement age of 60.
Other than Mrs A J Cooper, each of the current Executive Directors has opted out of Fund membership in respect of future service accrual as a result of registering for enhanced protection with HMRC.
The detailed HMRC rules governing enhanced protection mean that it may not be permissible, in some rare circumstances, for the full final salary linked pension based on service up to 6 April 2006 to be paid from the Fund.
In this event an additional pension will be paid by the Company through an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS so that the full accrued benefit may be provided.
Mr R Dyrbus is in receipt of a salary supplement of 35 per cent of salary, which is in lieu of future pensionable service accrual and arises because his accrued pension on 6 April 2006 was well below the maximum pension of two-thirds of salary.
Mrs A J Cooper is also in receipt of a salary supplement.
Prior to 6 April 2006 her pension benefits were limited by the effect of HMRCs earnings cap.
Although this cap was removed as from 6 April 2006, the Fund did not disapply it in respect of past pensionable service but maintained its own earnings cap going forward.
For service from 6 April 2006 onwards and for pensionable salary in excess of the Funds earnings cap, the standard Fund benefit is a pension at the lower accrual rate of 1 60ths with a 50 per cent spouses pension and member contributions of 5 per cent of this top slice of salary are payable.
As an alternative to extra pension accrual on this top slice of salary through the UURBS, Mrs Cooper receives a salary supplement of 12 per cent of this amount.
In each case these salary supplements have been calculated by the independent actuaries to reflect the value of the benefits of which they are in lieu and are discounted for early payment and for employers national insurance contributions.
The supplements are non-compensatory and non-pensionable.
The following table provides the information required by both the Listing Rules and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations and gives details for each Executive Director of: the annual accrued pension payable on retirement calculated as if he she had left service at the year end any potential UURBS entitlement is included : the increase in accrued pension during the year, excluding any increases for inflation in respect of the disclosure required under the Listing Rules: and the transfer value of the increase in accrued pension calculated in accordance with the Retirement Benefit Schemes Transfer Values GN 11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries and dated 6 April 2001.
None of the Executive Directors have made additional voluntary contributions.
68 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p55 p70:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:35 Page 69 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS PENSION DISCLOSURES AUDITED Disclosures required under the Regulations Listing Rules Accrued pension 000 Transfer value of accrued pension 000 000 Increase Increase in decrease accrued during pension Transfer Pensionable the year net of value of Age at service at Increase net of inflation increase 30 9 2009 30 9 2009 At during At At Directors Directors At during net of Years Years 1 10 2008 the year 30 9 2009 1 10 2008 contributions contribution 30 9 2009 the year inflation Mr G Davis 59 37 626 63 689 9,594 2,319 11,913 57 983 Mr R Dyrbus 56 27 291 24 315 3,972 949 4,921 21 337 Mrs A J Cooper 43 10 48 14 62 352 196 15 563 14 126 1 Mr G L Blashill 62 41 280 17 297 4,805 793 5,598 15 244 1 Mr G L Blashill drew pension during the course of the year, as is permitted under the Fund rules.
Mr Blashill was still in employment as at 30 September 2009.
The transfer value figures in the table above incorporate allowance for the benefits paid out in order to provide a consistent comparison with previous figures.
The accrued pension figures represent the benefits accrued, assuming that Mr Blashill first started to draw pension from the relevant date.
The figures shown are consistent with those disclosed at 30 September 2008.
7 Other Information Employee Benefit Trusts The Imperial Tobacco Group Employee and Executive Benefit Trust the Executive Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust the 2001 Trust together the Employee Benefit Trusts have been established to acquire ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares ADSs in the Company by subscription or purchase.
Funds to enable these acquisitions are provided by the Group to satisfy rights to ordinary shares and ADSs arising on the exercise of share options and on the vesting of the SMS and LTIP awards.
As at 30 September 2009, the Company held 51,481,000 ordinary shares in treasury which can be used to satisfy options and awards under its employee share plans either directly by the Company or by the Company gifting them to the Employee Benefit Trusts.
Options and awards may also be satisfied by the issue of new ordinary shares.
Details of the shareholdings by the Employee Benefit Trusts are as follows: Ordinary shares Balance at Acquired Distributed Balance at under Award Surplus 1 10 2008 during year during year 30 9 2009 at 30 9 2009 Shortfall Executive Trust 1,101,387 236,000 258,868 1,078,519 1,096,874 18,355 2001 Trust 3,804,697 1,374,124 2,430,573 4,820,741 2,390,168 Share Plan Flow Rates Our policy has always been to satisfy all options and awards under employee share plans from market purchased ordinary shares through the Employee Benefit Trusts or through treasury shares transferred to the Employee Benefit Trusts.
The Trust Deeds of the Employee Benefit Trusts and the rules of all our employee share plans contain provisions limiting awards to five per cent in five years and ten per cent in ten years for all employee share plans with an additional restriction to five per cent in ten years for executive share plans.
Currently an aggregate total of 0.6 per cent of the Companys issued share capital is subject to options and awards under the Groups executive and all employee share plans.
The Employee Benefit Trusts have also been provided with ordinary shares held by the Company in treasury in order to satisfy vesting options and awards.
Since demerger in 1996, the cumulative options and awards under all of the Companys employee share plans totals 2.6 per cent of its issued share capital.
Following initial grants on demerger, subsequent annual grants have averaged 0.3 per cent of issued share capital.
SUMMARY OF OPTIONS AND AWARDS GRANTED Cumulative Options and Awards granted Options and Awards granted during the year Limit on awards as a percentage of issued share capital as a percentage of issued share capital 10% in 10 years 2.0 0.3 5% in 5 years 0.9 0.3 5% in 10 years executive plans 1.2 0.2 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 69 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p55 p70:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:35 Page 70 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued Consultancy Agreement with Non-Executive Mr Painter is also a member of Supervisory Boards within the Deputy Chairman Reemtsma group and, between January and October 2008, the In addition to his appointment as Non-Executive Deputy Altadis group for which he received additional remuneration for Chairman, Mr Comolli entered into an agreement with Imperial fulfilling such non-executive roles.
Tobacco Limited, the Groups principal operating company.
Dr F A Rogerson Under this agreement he provides consultancy services to the Dr F A Rogerson resigned as a Director on 27 June 2007 for Group and receives fees up to a maximum of 850,000 per annum.
Under his contract of employment, Dr Rogerson was required to give 12 months notice to terminate The agreement terminates on 31 January 2010 but may be his employment.
Dr Rogerson completed a handover period and renewed by mutual consent for further one year periods.
In the was on compassionate leave until 27 June 2008, when his event that Mr Comolli ceases to be Non-Executive Deputy employment terminated.
Chairman, the agreement terminates with immediate effect but Mr Comolli would receive fees for the remainder of the relevant Dr Rogerson was excluded from the 2007 2008 bonus scheme one year period.
and did not receive any bonus payment in respect of that bonus year.
He was also excluded from any invitations to the LTIP and It has been agreed that the annual consultancy agreement will SMS from his Board resignation date.
not be renewed on 31 January 2010, but will be replaced with an eight month agreement paid at the rate of 20,000 per month.
The Remuneration Committee agreed that the awards granted to The agreement will terminate at the end of September 2010 at Dr Rogerson under the LTIP and the ordinary shares awarded to which time Mr Comolli will cease to provide consultancy services him under the SMS would vest, to the extent that the applicable to the Group.
These changes do not have any impact on performance conditions were satisfied, pro rata for the period up Mr Comollis appointment as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
Remuneration Arrangements for Former No compensation has been paid to Dr Rogerson in connection Executive Directors with the termination of his employment.
Mr D Cresswell Dr Rogerson opted out of pension fund membership as Following his retirement from the Board in December 2007, regards future service accrual as a result of registering for Mr Cresswell remains a member of Supervisory Boards within enhanced protection with HMRC from 6 April 2006.
Dr Rogerson the Reemtsma group and the Board of Imperial Vina Danang was in receipt of a salary supplement in lieu of future pension Company Limited.
service accrual of 16.4 per cent of salary.
This amount was a Mr M A Hussler non-pensionable payment.
It was agreed with Dr Rogerson that Mr M A Hussler is currently in receipt of a retirement pension this salary supplement ceased to be paid on 31 December 2007 that has been reduced because it was taken before he reached and that no salary supplement would be paid for the remainder his normal retirement age.
His service agreement with the Group of his notice period.
provided that he would receive similar overall pension benefits Mr B Setrakian to those that he would have received had he remained in the Following his appointment to the Board in June 2008, Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH pension arrangement.
Mr B Setrakian retained a number of appointments within This was a pension for life equivalent to 42 per cent of his fixed Altadis USA business.
He resigned from these appointments in annual salary at age 63.
For death in retirement, a spouses December 2008.
Mr Setrakian received additional remuneration pension for life of 60 per cent of that amount would be payable.
for fulfilling such non-executive roles.
The pension is made up of two parts: one part payable from the unfunded pension arrangement of Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken For the Board GmbH, the other part payable from the separately funded Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund.
The pension payable under the Reemtsma arrangement and from the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund may be increased annually in accordance with the Rules of those arrangements, or as required by law.
Mr S Huismans P H Jungels Following his retirement from the Board in January 2006, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Mr S Huismans remains a member of Supervisory Boards within 10 November 2009 the Reemtsma group.
He was also appointed as a non-executive director of Altadis, S. A. upon its acquisition by the Group in January 2008 until 5 November 2008.
Mr Huismans received additional remuneration for fulfilling such non-executive roles.
Mr S T Painter Following his retirement in May 2000, Mr S T Painter entered into a consultancy agreement with Imperial Tobacco Limited, the Groups principal operating company.
The agreement, as amended in October 2001 and May 2004, ran until March 2007.
Under the terms of the agreement he provided consultancy services as required and received fees at a day rate of 1,000 with a minimum fee based on 100 days service for each 12 month period ending on 30 June, and 67 days for the period 1 July 2006 to 6 March 2007.
Mr Painter is still providing consultancy services as required and receives fees at a day rate of 1,000.
However, there is now no minimum fee.
He is entitled to reimbursement for the use of his car.
70 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p71:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:38 Page 71 01 02 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In this section: 73 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 74 Consolidated Income Statement 75 Consolidated Balance Sheet 76 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 76 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 77 Accounting Policies 03 83 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements 85 Notes to the Financial Statements 127 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 128 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet 129 Notes to the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet Total Tobacco 01 JPS Dosettes, launched in 2008, is a make your own product.
02 Lambert & Butler supports our market leading position in the UK.
03 USA Gold continues to be well positioned in the USA discount sector.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 71 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p72 p132:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:39 Page 72 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial Statements and Notes Contents Page Page Independent Auditors Report to the 14 Cash and Cash Equivalents 97 Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 73 15 Trade and Other Payables 97 Consolidated Income Statement 74 16 Borrowings and Derivative Financial Instruments 98 Consolidated Balance Sheet 75 17 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 111 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 76 18 Retirement Benefit Schemes 113 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 76 19 Provisions 116 Accounting Policies 77 20 Share Capital 116 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements 83 21 Share Schemes 117 22 Changes in Equity 121 23 Minority Interests 122 Notes to the Financial Statements 24 Acquisitions 122 25 Commitments 124 1 Segmental Information 85 26 Legal Proceedings 124 2 Profit Before Taxation 88 27 Cash Flows from Operating Activities 125 3 Restructuring Costs 89 28 Analysis of Net Debt 125 4 Directors and Employees 89 29 Reconciliation of Cash Flow to Movement 5 Net Finance Costs 90 in Net Debt 126 6 Taxation 90 30 Balances and Transactions with 7 Dividends 91 Associates and Joint Ventures 126 8 Earnings Per Share 92 9 Intangible Assets 93 Independent Auditors Report to the 10 Property, Plant and Equipment 95 Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 127 11 Investments in Associates Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet 128 and Joint Ventures 96 Notes to the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 12 Inventories 97 Balance Sheet 129 13 Trade and Other Receivables 97 Principal Subsidiaries 131 72 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009
