46 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Remuneration report Dear Shareholder The Remuneration Committee is focused on maintaining robust links between performance and reward.
Results against key I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report performance indicators for 2009 included: for 2009.
This year, we have made changes to the layout of the 2009 Key performance indicators per annum Remuneration Report to enhance the clarity of disclosure, and EBIT growth 34% to make it easier to read and understand.
RevPAR growth 14.7% Market conditions during 2009 were highly challenging in the Employee engagement growth 1% hospitality industry due to the economic recession globally, with Three-year TSR growth annualised 8.7% considerable pressure on both revenue per available room RevPAR Three-year adjusted EPS growth annualised 15.2% and costs.
Management took a number of measures to increase competitiveness in these difficult conditions, including a significant As 85% of the EBIT target was not achieved, no annual bonus is to cost savings programme and the restructuring of the Asia Pacific be paid for the financial year ended 31 December 2009.
These initiatives involved streamlining parts of the global strong performance over the longer term is reflected by the outcome organisation, discretionary cost control, improved effectiveness, of the 2007 2009 LTIP award.
Vesting of 46% was achieved due to and greater use of IHGs scale to achieve purchasing savings.
competitively high relative total shareholder return TSR and earnings performance of IHG over the previous three-year period.
The Remuneration Committee has focused on ensuring that the remuneration arrangements for senior executives support these Following extensive consultation with key institutional initiatives, as well as 2010 goals and long-term value creation.
It is shareholders, no major adjustments to the current remuneration also important that remuneration structures for senior executives framework are proposed for 2010.
However, in 2010, in light of the appropriately reflect the cost control and efficiency principles that continued challenging market conditions: are being implemented throughout the business.
the maximum bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors will Several changes were made to the remuneration approach in 2009 be capped at 175% of base salary reduced from 230% to 200% to reflect the tougher conditions: in 2008 and 2009 respectively : there was no general salary increase: the EBIT target for maximum bonus achievement will be increased to 120% of budget previously 110% : and the weighting of earnings before interest and tax EBIT in the Annual Bonus Plan ABP was increased to 70%.
It was also the reduced LTIP grant levels, introduced in 2009, will be decided that there would be no annual bonus payment for maintained for the 2010 awards.
performance below 85% of the EBIT target: During 2009, the Committee had intended to perform a full review the maximum potential award for the earnings per share EPS of IHGs executive incentive arrangements.
However, due to the element in the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP was halved, and continuing uncertainty of external market conditions, and following the total maximum LTIP award was reduced by 25%: the consultative discussions with institutional shareholders, it was the LTIP rules were amended to enable the Remuneration felt appropriate to defer this review until 2010.
Committee to exercise its discretion to reduce vesting, should Ralph Kugler results not be consistent with the underlying quality of business Chairman of the Remuneration Committee performance: and 15 February 2010 the Non-Executive Directors received no increase in their fees.
Introduction The report includes the following: 1 The Remuneration Committee This report sets out the 2 Remuneration policy and structure remuneration policy for the 3 Base salary and benefits Companys Directors, describes its 4 Annual Bonus Plan 5 Long Term Incentive Plan implementation, and sets out the 6 Performance graph amounts paid in 2009.
It has been 7 Shareholding policy prepared by the Remuneration 8 Total compensation Committee and has been approved 9 Policy regarding pensions by the Board.
It complies with the 10 Non-Executive Directors pay 11 Service contracts Companies Act 2006 and related 12 Audited information on Directors emoluments regulations.
This report will be put to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
