Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder No non-Committee member may attend meetings unless I am pleased to present the report by the Remuneration invited by the Committee Chairman.
At the request of the Committee the Committee on directors remuneration Committee Chairman, the Company Chairman following his Remuneration Report for the year to 31 March 2009. resignation as a member of the Committee, Deputy Chairman from his appointment as a director on 1 January 2009, Chief As set out in the Chairmans Statement on page 8, Invensys Executive, Chief Financial Officer, EVP Human Resources has had another good year despite the difficult economic and the Head of Total Reward are invited to attend and speak conditions that have affected the global economy.
Against at meetings, except when their own remuneration is being this background, the Committee has applied a clear strategy considered.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee of linking executive directors remuneration to stretching can be found on the Groups website.
performance targets and returns to shareholders.
Meetings The Committee believes that the remuneration policy detailed The Committee held four scheduled meetings and one in this Remuneration Report is appropriate to enable Invensys unscheduled meeting during the year under review.
Individual to recruit the people we need, and retain and motivate those members attendance records at the scheduled meetings is already with us at this critical time.
The Committee considers that the individual elements of the The adoption of this Remuneration Report is subject to remuneration package that will apply in 2009 10 constitute an a separate shareholder resolution at the AGM.
appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration.
The principal matters considered during the year under review I have enjoyed immensely my time as a director of Invensys and included among others: I am proud of our successful turnaround.
As Chairman of the review of executive remuneration, including base salary Remuneration Committee, I am confident that my colleagues and incentive arrangements: on the Committee will ensure that the policy and reward review of contractual matters relating to the structures will continue to support the Companys strategy Chief Executive: and the creation of shareholder value.
review and approval of remuneration package for the new Chief Financial Officer: The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of approval of annual awards under the 2007 Long Term directors on 13 May 2009 and signed on its behalf by: Incentive Plan 2007 LTIP and Restricted Share Plan RSP, and of targeted retention awards: assessment of performance conditions relating to executive share awards vesting during the year: review and approval of termination packages for leavers within the Executive Leadership Team: and Jean-Claude Guez consideration and approval of a UK and international Chairman of the Remuneration Committee launch of the Savings Related Share Option Scheme in 2009 10.
Remuneration Committee Membership Role The Committee comprised at the end of the year four nonThe Committee is a committee of the Board and its principal executive directors, and the table below provides details of the duties are to: members of the Committee during the year under review: determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors, Company Secretary and first layer of Name Date of appointment resignation management below Board level the Executive Leadership Jean-Claude Guez Appointed 21 January 2003: Team taking into account all factors which it deems appointed Chairman of the necessary to ensure that the interests of executives are Committee 9 January 2004 aligned with those of shareholders.
The remuneration Bay Green Appointed 13 December 2006 of non-executive directors is a matter for the Chairman and the executive members of the Board.
No director or Martin Jay A ppointed 2 August 2006: manager will be involved in any decisions as to their own resigned 24 September 2008 remuneration: Michael Parker Appointed 2 August 2006 review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of Pat Zito Appointed 23 May 2007 the remuneration policy, review and note annually the remuneration trends across the Group and obtain They are all independent non-executive directors save for up-to-date information about remuneration structures Martin Jay who, as Chairman of the Company, was permitted in other companies: by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by approve the design of, and determine targets for, any the Financial Reporting Council in 2006 the Combined Code performance-related pay schemes operated by the to be a member of the Committee.
Company and approve the total annual payments made under such schemes: Dr Martin Read will join the Board following the AGM and will review the design of all share incentive plans for approval succeed Mr Guez as Chairman of the Committee.
In addition, by the Board and shareholders and, for any such plans, Sir Nigel Rudd and Francesco Caio will join the Remuneration determine each year whether awards will be made, and if Committee following the AGM.
so the overall level of such awards, the individual awards Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | 33 Remuneration Report continued to executive directors and other senior executives and the UK Listing Authority.
It also describes how the principles set performance targets to be used: out in the Combined Code have been applied in relation to ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any remuneration for the current and forthcoming financial years.
payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company, Ernst & Young LLP has audited the contents of the report to the that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate extent required by the Companies Act the tabular information loss is fully recognised: on pages 41 to 42 relating to directors remuneration and determine, within the terms of the agreed policy and in directors interests over shares and all share incentive plans.
consultation with the Chairman and or Chief Executive as appropriate, the total individual remuneration package Remuneration strategy of each executive director and other senior executives, To take account of the ongoing development of the Company including bonuses, incentive payments and share awards, and of its strategic plan, during 2007 the Committee pension arrangements and expatriation allowances, undertook a comprehensive review of all aspects of reward giving due regard to any relevant legal requirements, for executive directors and senior executives.
The results the provisions and recommendations in the Combined of the Remuneration Strategy Review were supported by Code and the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and shareholders at the 2007 AGM.
The 2008 09 financial year associated guidance: reflected some evolution of this reward strategy in order to oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures strengthen our competitive market position and support throughout the Company: further value creation for our shareholders.
ensure that all provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration including pensions, as set out in the relevant These key elements of our remuneration strategy for 2008 09, provisions of the Companies Act and the Combined Code, which will be applied in a consistent manner in 2009 10, are are fulfilled: described in detail below.
be exclusively responsible for establishing the selection criteria, selecting, appointing and setting the terms of Base salary reference for any remuneration consultants who advise The Committee determines the level of base salary for each the Committee: and executive director annually.
For 2008 09 and 2009 10, base consider any other matters as referred to the Committee salaries were set within a market-competitive range based by the Board.
on analysis of salaries paid in FTSE 350 companies, taking account of the relative complexity, international scope and size The Committee will not determine any matters reserved of comparator companies.
The Committee additionally takes for the Board.
into account salaries in relevant key competitor companies, specific factors relating to the individual including personal The Committee Chairman attends the AGM and is available to performance, internal relativities, wage inflation elsewhere in answer questions from shareholders on remuneration matters.
the Group, and overall affordability.
In establishing individual salary levels, the Committee is conscious that it should pay no Committee performance evaluation more than is necessary to retain and motivate the executive, As detailed in the Corporate Governance report on page 29, while ensuring business objectives are fulfilled.
There is no the Committees performance is reviewed annually both by automatic adjustment in respect of inflation.
the Board as a whole and by the Committee itself, with the emphasis on continued improvement and effectiveness.
Taking account of the factors above, with effect from 1 April 2009, the Chief Executives base salary remains at 820,000 Advice 2008: 820,000.
As the incumbent Chief Financial Officer To ensure that the Groups remuneration practices remain for 2008 09 Steve Hare had indicated his intention to leave market-competitive and compliant, during the year advice was Invensys, his base salary was not reviewed and his 2008 received from: base salary of 490,000 will remain effective for the period Deloitte LLP, who were the principal source of external 1 April 2009 until he leaves Invensys on 31 May 2009.
On advice as independent remuneration consultants to appointment on 1 June 2009, the base salary of the new Chief the Committee on issues relating to the remuneration Financial Officer Wayne Edmunds will be 375,000.
The arrangements for the executive directors.
A copy of the Committee considers these base salary levels are necessary terms of appointment of Deloitte LLP is available on the and appropriate to meet its objective of retaining the executive Groups website.
In addition, Deloitte LLP undertook directors and maintaining competitive pay levels, having expatriate tax compliance work for certain members of taken full account of the performance of the directors and the the Executive Leadership Team, provided advice in relation business-critical nature of their contribution.
to some corporate tax matters and provided internal audit services: The next review date for executive directors base salaries will Hewitt New Bridge Street, who provided data in relation to be 1 April 2010. total shareholder return TSR and ranking information for the various incentive schemes: Annual incentive arrangements Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP in their capacity as Performance-related bonuses may be paid under the Executive lawyers to the Company: and Bonus Plan, which provides annual incentives for the executive internally, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, directors in order to encourage the achievement of predefined the EVP Human Resources and the Head of Total Reward.
annual financial objectives and to focus on the most important measures of business success, while rewarding them for Compliance outstanding performance.
In this way, the Executive Bonus The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance Plan seeks to align the interests of shareholders and those with the requirements of Schedule 7A of the Companies participating in it.
Act 1985 the Companies Act and the Listing Rules of the 34 | Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 For 2008 09 the maximum bonus opportunity under the For 2009 10, any bonus earned in excess of target 100% of Executive Bonus Plan was set at 200% of target i. e. 200% of salary for executive directors will be paid in deferred shares salary for executive directors, whereby any bonus in excess of which will only be transferred at the end of a three year period.
150% of target i. e. up to 200% of target would only be earned Deferred shares will only be forfeitable in the event of dismissal for the achievement of super-stretch performance.
For 2008 09, the targets for executive directors were Long-term incentive arrangements 1 underlying EPS and free cash flow per share, weighted The 2007 LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2007 50% 50%.
Bonus payments may also be influenced, through AGM.
Awards were made in 2007 08 and 2008 09 under the exercise of discretion by the Committee, by the achievement 2007 LTIP.
A separate award was implemented for the Chief of personal objectives and broader contextual factors such Executive in 2007 as outlined on page 38. as performance on corporate social responsibility issues.
In establishing personal objectives and financial targets for The maximum annual award level for executive directors bonuses, the Committee ensures that no environmental, and other participants will normally be 200% of base salary health, safety and sustainability risks are raised by inadvertently although the Committee has discretion to make awards in motivating irresponsible behaviour.
The Committee considers excess of this level in exceptional circumstances.
Vesting of that these measures of performance are appropriate to support awards is based on meeting stretching performance targets continued delivery of the Groups strategy.
over a three year performance period and, subject to meeting all relevant conditions, shares will normally be released to Each year, the Committee sets out in its Remuneration Report participants as soon as possible following the third anniversary the basis on which bonuses have been paid in relation to of the award.
The satisfaction of all performance targets will be the targets set at the beginning of the financial year under subject to external verification.
This ensures that shareholders are able to assess the bonus targets and the link between bonuses payable and the For 50% of an award, the performance measure is relative TSR performance of the business.
performance measured on a local currency basis against that of the constituents of the Standard & Poors Global 1200 Capital The bonuses paid to the executive directors in relation to Goods Index.
This measure was chosen to provide a focus on the year under review are set out on page 41.
In line with delivering high levels of return to shareholders.
The Standard the Executive Bonus Plan rules, the salary used for bonus & Poors Global 1200 Capital Goods Index was selected as the calculation purposes is the salary effective from 1 April 2008. comparator group because its constituents represent a wide In respect of 2008 09 actual performance, the bonus payments grouping of over 100 companies that have businesses that are, reflect the fact that the predetermined threshold level of in whole or in part, similar to or in competition with some or all performance was not achieved for EPS, and free cash flow of those operated by Invensys, and cover a wide geographic performance was at the maximum super-stretch level.
The range including the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific.
aggregate out-turn was, therefore, a bonus payment of 100% of the predetermined target.
Where applicable, bonus in excess 25% of the TSR part of an award will vest for performance equal of 100% of target i. e. 100% of salary for executive directors to the unweighted mean of the Index constituents, excluding is paid in deferred shares in accordance with the Deferred outliers.
The calculation will not be weighted by reference to Share Plan, which will be transferred to the individual after market capitalisation of Index constituents to avoid any single three years.
No deferred shares were awarded for 2008 09, large company unduly influencing the results.
For similar as performance was at the target level.
reasons, an equal number of outliers at the top and bottom of the TSR range will be excluded.
Having rigorously reviewed the results achieved against the performance targets set for 2008 09, the Committee 100% of the TSR part of an award will vest for outperformance is satisfied that the targets it had set up front were very of the mean of Index constituents excluding outliers challenging and that the bonuses awarded reflected the equivalent to upper quartile performance.
For 2007 08 and level of financial performance in an extremely difficult global 2008 09 awards this was calculated by the Committees economic environment.
Group free cash flow performance remuneration advisers as outperformance by a factor of 1.3 was exceptional when considered against the global economic i. e. 30% over the three year performance period.
to be made in 2009 10 the level of outperformance equivalent to upper quartile performance has been calculated to be a The Committee has carefully reviewed the financial targets to factor of 1.25 i. e. 25%.
In the opinion of the Committees be applied for the Executive Bonus Plan for 2009 10 against remuneration advisers, this level of outperformance is the background of global economic uncertainty, and is of equivalent to upper quartile, so that the level set for 2009 10 the opinion that they are as stretching as the targets set for is no less stretching than that applied to the 2007 08 and 2008 09.
For 2009 10 the maximum bonus opportunity under the For awards made in 2008 09, the TSR performance period for Executive Bonus Plan will remain at 200% of target i. e. 200% the Company and each constituent of the Index will be based of salary for executive directors, whereby any bonus in on the three month average to 31 March 2011 compared with excess of 150% of target i. e. up to 200% of target would only the three month average to 31 March 2008. be earned for the achievement of truly outstanding superstretch performance.
The financial bonus targets for executive For awards to be made in 2009 10, the TSR performance directors will again be underlying EPS and free cash flow, period for the Company and each constituent of the Index weighted 50% 50%.
will be based on the three month average to 31 March 2012 compared with the three month average to 31 March 2009.
1 See Note 11 to the Financial Statements.
Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | 35 Remuneration Report continued For the other 50% of an award, the performance target will be The performance conditions do not apply to 30% of an award the compound annual growth rate CAGR in underlying EPS.
for executive participants below executive director level.
This This measure was chosen to provide a focus on delivering is to address specific recruitment and retention issues facing stretching internal financial targets.
For the 2008 09 award, 25% of the EPS part of the award will If a participant resigns or is dismissed for cause before vest for EPS CAGR of 10.7%.
100% of the EPS part of the award shares are released, they will be forfeited.
If a participants will vest for EPS CAGR of 22.4%.
Growth will be measured from employment ceases due to ill health or disability, performance a base of 17.0p, it being the 2007 08 underlying EPS.
will be measured at the normal vesting date and the award will then be pro rated based on the period of service, save that For the 2009 10 award the Committee carefully reviewed the Committee may moderate the application of the pro rata the EPS targets in light of the global economic environment reduction if it considers that the participants contribution to as well as factors specific to the Company and determined the business would not be properly recognised if the award that 25% of the EPS part of the award will vest for EPS CAGR of was scaled down.
The Committee will have discretion to 5%.
100% of the EPS part of the award will vest for EPS CAGR accelerate vesting in compassionate circumstances.
In the opinion of the Committee these targets are appropriately stretching.
Growth will be measured from a In the event of a change of control during the performance base of 14.1p, it being the 2008 09 underlying EPS.
period, performance will be measured at the latest possible date before the change of control to assess the proportion The Committee will have discretion to exclude from the vesting based on performance.
The proportion of the award calculation matters such as one-off items of a non-recurring that may be released will then be time pro rated.
nature, to ensure that the focus is on underlying growth in EPS.
The Committee will have discretion to disapply the impact of The Committee will in all cases retain discretion to ensure time pro rating and to permit up to 100% of awards to vest on a that, as a condition for the vesting of shares, the underlying change of control if, due to exceptional business circumstances overall performance of the Company has been satisfactory.
to be assessed by the Committee, returns to shareholders are For the TSR part of the award, factors that will be taken into considered to be at a superior level.
account will include EPS growth and the Groups cash position.
Vested awards will include an additional number of shares Remuneration policy for executive directors 2009 10 representing the value of any dividends that would have been The table below summarises the key elements of the executive paid on those vested shares had they been held throughout directors remuneration as they will apply for 2009 10.
where specifically stated, the terms applied to the new Chief Financial Officer Mr Edmunds will be the same as those applied to the current Chief Financial Officer Mr Hare.
Element of remuneration package Purpose Policy Summary of operation Base salary P rovide a competitive To set pay in a competitive Paid monthly in cash.
market-based salary to help range by reference to R eviewed annually and fixed for the 12 months recruit and retain relevant comparator commencing 1 April.
T he Chief Executives base salary remains at Reflect the individuals 820,000 from 1 April 2009. role within the Group and T he new Chief Financial Officers Mr Edmunds have regard to skills and base salary will be 375,000 with effect from the experience and other date of his appointment 1 June 2009.
His next relevant factors such as base salary review will be effective 1 April 2010. personal performance.
Annual bonus I ncentivise key executives Bonus determined by T he Committee sets a threshold performance to achieve specific, reference to financial level where 10% of salary is paid, and a target stretching predetermined targets, influenced by level where 100% of salary is paid increasing goals over a short-term personal objectives.
on a straight-line basis to a stretch level where period.
Stretch bonus potential 150% of salary is paid.
For levels of performance R eward ongoing set by reference to UK above stretch, the targets are harder to achieve to contribution to core values.
and international market a level of super-stretch performance, at which the F ocus executives on comparators currently maximum annual bonus payment is 200% of salary.
targets relevant to the 150% of base salary.
B onus payments are determined by the Committee Groups current strategic For the achievement of after year end, based on targets set at the start goals.
truly exceptional of the year.
The bonus amount up to target super-stretch financial performance level is paid in cash.
Any bonus performance, a maximum earned in excess of the target performance level annual bonus payment of will be paid in deferred shares which will be 200% of salary is available released after three years subject to the executive for 2009 10. director not being dismissed for cause.
36 | Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Element of remuneration package Purpose Policy Summary of operation 2007 Long I ncentivise executives Maximum usual annual A wards of shares made annually, conditional on Term Incentive to meet truly stretching grant of 200% of base performance measured over the three subsequent Plan financial targets and salary, actual award levels years ending 31 March 2012 for awards in 2009 10.
2007 LTIP achieve superior returns determined by individual F or 50% of the award the performance condition to shareholders.
will relate to the Companys TSR performance A lign interests of Expected award level relative to the constituents of the Standard & Poors executives and to executive directors in Global 1200 Capital Goods Index.
25% will vest shareholders through 2009 10 is 200% of base for performance equal to the mean of the Index building a shareholding.
constituents, and 100% will vest for outperformance R etain key executives over of the mean of the Index constituents representing three year performance upper quartile excluding outliers in each case.
F or 50% of the award the performance condition will relate to the CAGR of the Companys EPS.
25% will vest for 5% CAGR and 100% will vest for 13% CAGR.
S hares will only vest to participants if the Committee is satisfied that the underlying performance of the Company has been sufficient to justify this.
Pension R eward ongoing Facilitate the accumulation T he Chief Executive is entitled to a pension contribution during of an appropriate level of allowance equal to 35% of base salary in lieu of Invensys career.
pension entitlement, part of which is paid as a contribution to a personal pension scheme.
T he Chief Financial Officer is entitled to a pension allowance equal to 30% of base salary in lieu of pension entitlement.
T he Company bears no additional costs to the executive directors arising from changes to pension taxation legislation in April 2006.
Share T o align the interests of Executive directors are E xecutive directors are expected to retain shares Ownership executive directors and required to build and net of taxes acquired through the vesting of shares Guidelines other senior executives maintain a shareholding under the Groups share incentive plans until the with those of shareholders.
Existing shareholdings A more stringent and shares acquired in the market are also taken shareholding requirement into account.
applies to the Chief E xceptionally, in conjunction with the 2007 Executive until May 2010.
CEO Special Award, an increased shareholding requirement of 300% of base salary will apply to the Chief Executive until May 2010.
Service T o provide suitable Notice periods not to T he Chief Executives and Chief Financial Officers contracts protection to both the exceed 12 months except, contracts provide for 12 months notice.
Both executives and the where necessary, for a contracts permit any termination payment to Company.
transitional period on be made on a phased basis.
To provide for mitigation and or phasing of any payment.
Other benefits Other benefits provided for executive directors include the provision of a cash allowance in place of a company car, typical life assurance permanent health insurance benefits, private medical insurance and annual health checks.
In addition, the Company pays, on a grossed-up basis, certain third-party fees incurred for UK and US tax filings and relevant immigration matters.
Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | 37 Remuneration Report continued Other share schemes Restricted Share Plan RSP 2007 CEO Special Award The Company also operates an RSP which grants executive In 2007 the Committee determined that the Chief Executive management participants restricted share awards, nominal nil would participate in a one-off long-term incentive award, price options or cash awards over Invensys shares.
Release of known as the 2007 CEO Special Award Special Award, in the shares is generally subject to continued employment at the addition to his normal annual award under the 2007 LTIP.
relevant date, although shares may be released early in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Committee.
The Subject to meeting very demanding performance conditions, executive directors did not receive RSP awards during the the Special Award entitles Ulf Henriksson to 1,608,554 shares, financial year.
being 700% of Mr Henrikssons 2007 08 base salary 750,000.
Savings Related Share Option Scheme The Special Award is subject to a three year performance The Company has a Savings Related Share Option Scheme for period.
50% of vested shares will be released at the end of the operation in the UK and an Overseas Savings Related Share performance period, with the other 50% being released after a Option Scheme for operation in other countries.
The Schemes 12 month holding period.
The performance measures applying enable employees to purchase shares in the Company at a to the Special Award reflect those applying to the 2007 LTIP favourable price, using the proceeds of a savings account with some elements being more demanding.
The Special to which they make monthly contributions for a three year Award is split into two layers, each of which vests on a different period.
Executive directors are eligible to participate in the basis.
For the first layer, equal to 200% of base salary, 20% Scheme, which operates in the UK within specific tax legislation will vest for threshold performance and 100% for maximum and is therefore not subject to performance conditions.
For the second layer, equal to 500% of base last invitation under the UK Scheme was in 2004 although, salary, there will be no vesting for threshold performance, but following a review by the Committee, a further invitation will 100% will vest for maximum performance.
Vesting in each layer be offered under both Schemes in 2009 10. will be on a straight-line basis between these points.
For each layer of the Special Award 50% will vest based on TSR and 50% Dilution limits based on EPS growth, as for the 2007 LTIP.
However, for the TSR The Company has, at all times, complied with the dilution part of the Special Award, maximum vesting will require more limits contained within its share plans principally a limit of stretching performance, equivalent to upper quintile.
In the 10 year period to 31 March 2009 awards means outperformance of the mean of the Standard & Poors made under the Companys share schemes represented Global 1200 Capital Goods Index constituents by a factor of 3.12% 2008: 2.89% of the Companys issued ordinary share 1.4 i. e. 40%.
The general rule is that the award will lapse if the capital.
Shares to satisfy the TBOP, the deferred share element Chief Executive leaves employment, although shares may be of the Executive Bonus Plan and the RSP will be purchased in released in defined good leaver cases.
1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan Employee benefit trust 1998 LTIP The Company has an employee benefit trust which is For awards made during 2005 06, 2006 07 and 2007 08 administered by an independent trustee and which holds under the 1998 LTIP, vesting is conditional on the Companys ordinary shares in the Company to meet the various TSR relative to a basket of 12 global comparators over a three obligations under its executive share schemes, as appropriate.
year performance period, and on meeting specific underpin The trust held 414,534 ordinary shares at 31 March 2009 2008: targets.
25% of an award vests for median performance 1,766,545. with full vesting requiring upper decile performance.
50% of vested shares are released at the end of the performance Share Ownership Guidelines period and the remainder after one year, subject to continued The Share Ownership Guidelines, requiring executives to build employment.
The usual annual award level for executive up and maintain a shareholding over time, were introduced directors was 200% of base salary per annum.
in 2004 05 and were amended with effect from 2007 08 and thereafter such that, except as required to meet tax No further awards can be granted under the 1998 LTIP and obligations, executives have to retain at least 50% of the shares awards are now made under the 2007 LTIP.
100% of shares for executive directors which vest under all executive share incentive plans or the payment of annual Turnaround Bonus Overlay Plan TBOP incentives in shares, until the minimum level of shareholding On a transitional basis, the Committee operated the TBOP is achieved.
The TBOP was subject to the same performance targets as the Executive Bonus Plan, but The following requirements as to the minimum level of only commenced payment where an above target level of retention will apply: performance was achieved.
At target, no payment was due Executive directors 200% of base salary with the potential bonus increasing, on a straight-line basis, Executive Leadership Team 50% of base salary to 100% of salary if the maximum bonus was earned.
Other participants 25% of base salary To align the interests of executive directors and shareholders, In conjunction with the introduction of the Special Award, any bonuses earned under the TBOP are paid in shares, with the Chief Executive will build up to an increased level 50% of the shares awarded being released following the first of shareholding of 300% of base salary.
This increased anniversary of those shares being awarded and the other 50% requirement will continue to apply until May 2010.
Thereafter, being released following the second anniversary.
Release the normal 200% of base salary under the Share Ownership of the final tranche of shares under the TBOP will occur on Guidelines will apply.
38 | Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Service contracts of notice equal to the basic salary which Mr Edmunds would Policy have been entitled to receive under his service contract during The Combined Code and guidelines issued by institutional the notice period, if notice had been given, and the cost to investors recommend that notice periods of no more than one the Company of the provisions of certain benefits during year be set as an objective for executive directors and that this period.
The Company can elect to pay this lump sum by any payments to a departing executive director should be monthly instalments which will reduce by 50% if he obtains determined having full regard to the duty of mitigation.
As the Company will be requiring Mr It is the Companys policy to achieve these objectives Edmunds to relocate from the US to the UK in order to fulfil wherever possible.
his duties as the new Chief Financial Officer, the Company will provide certain benefits relating to his relocation including: Specific contracts a property rental allowance for the first 12 months following Set out below is a summary of the main provisions of the appointment: reimbursement of costs reasonably incurred in service contracts of those executive directors who served shipping personal effects to the UK: a resettlement allowance during the year: equal to one months base salary: and the services of a housing relocation agent.
Date of Notice Director Notes contract period Chairman and non-executive directors Ulf Henriksson 1,2, 3 28 April 2004 12 months Chairman and Deputy Chairman Steve Hare 1,3 20 April 2006 12 months As previously announced, Mr Jay will retire as Chairman at the conclusion of the 2009 AGM.
He was appointed non-executive Notes Chairman in July 2003 and serves the Company under a letter 1 In the event of early termination of the directors service contract other than of appointment dated 28 May 2003.
This requires, except in where summary dismissal is appropriate the Company has the right to pay, in the case of dismissal for cause, 12 months notice by either lieu of notice, the salary and contractual benefits which he would have received during the relevant notice period.
Alternatively, in the case of Mr Hare, the party: on early termination at the request of the Company any Company may continue to provide such benefits during that period.
compensation will be subject to mitigation.
No compensation 2 The Company may elect to pay the amount due in lieu of notice as a single lump will be payable to Mr Jay on his retirement from the Board.
sum, or pay the first six months worth on departure and then on a phased basis at six-monthly intervals with appropriate reduction in the event that Mr Henriksson finds alternative employment.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Chairmans 3 The Committee approved in 2007 08 changes to Mr Henrikssons and fees.
The Chairman is not involved in any decision on his own Mr Hares contracts entitling them, in the event of a material adverse change remuneration.
The fees currently paid to the Chairman and to their titles, responsibilities or status following a change of control of the the other non-executive directors are subject to the limits Company, to terminate their employment and receive a payment equal to the set in the Articles of Association.
The Chairmans fee was termination payment set out above.
set on appointment at 250,000 per annum.
The Chairman Mr Hare will leave the Company on 31 May 2009 following his participates in the same arrangement as the other nonresignation.
No termination payment will be made to him.
His executive directors as set out overleaf whereby 8,000 LTIP share awards were forfeited on his resignation.
However of his fee per annum is paid in shares.
the Committee has determined that his deferred share award which he would otherwise receive on 24 July 2011 will vest on Sir Nigel Rudd, who was appointed a non-executive director 31 May 2009.
The 2006 07 TBOP award will vest in accordance and Deputy Chairman on 1 January 2009, will succeed Mr Jay with its terms on 1 June 2009.
He will receive his 2008 09 as Chairman.
The terms of Sir Nigel Rudds appointment are annual bonus payment notwithstanding that he is leaving set out in a contract dated 3 December 2008 which requires, before the payment date, and the Committee has determined except in the case of dismissal for cause, 12 months notice that he will be eligible for an annual bonus in respect of his two by either party: on early termination at the request of the months service in 2009 10.
Company any compensation will be subject to mitigation.
As a result of the Company recharging a proportion of It is expected that Sir Nigel Rudd will spend, on average, Mr Henrikssons employment costs to the US businesses, two days per week in his role as Chairman.
From the Mr Henriksson incurs both US and UK tax liabilities in respect commencement of the Chairmanship, the Company has of his employment duties undertaken in the US.
Deloitte LLP agreed to fund the cost of a car and driver based on two fifths has advised Invensys that the UK tax liabilities paid by Mr of the annualised cost of the provision of such services.
Henriksson in respect of such duties should be refunded to him by HM Revenue and Customs HMRC.
However, such From the date of his appointment as Deputy Chairman, Sir refund has been delayed pending a determination by the Nigel Rudds fee is 150,000 per annum: this will increase to US and UK tax authorities of the relevant treaty provisions.
270,000 per annum on appointment as Chairman.
Sir Nigel In view of the material prejudice suffered by Mr Henriksson Rudd has elected to participate in the same arrangement as as a result of this temporary double taxation, Invensys the other non-executive directors as set out overleaf whereby Systems Inc has, since the year end, advanced 546,000 to 8,000 of his fee per annum is paid in shares.
Mr Henriksson, being an amount equal to refunds due from HMRC.
This loan will be repayable on HMRC refunding the Non-executive directors amount to Mr Henriksson.
It is possible that further advances The non-executive directors do not have service contracts will be made to Mr Henriksson under this arrangement.
All non-executive directors including the Chairman are appointed under the Companys Articles Mr Edmunds will be employed as Chief Financial Officer of Association, which require that one third of all directors under a service contract with the Company dated 5 April including executive directors shall retire at each AGM but 2009 as from 1 June 2009.
The contract can be terminated that all directors must seek re-election at least every three by either party by giving the other not less than 12 months years.
They are also subject to review by the Nominating written notice.
The Company may elect to pay a sum in lieu Committee prior to being considered for election or Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | 39 Remuneration Report continued re-election by shareholders and serve the Company under Total shareholder return letters of appointment that do not contain any notice period.
200 Invensys plc They do not participate in any bonus or performance-related FTSE 100 Index plans or any of the Groups share incentive, option or pension schemes.
150 Fees for non-executive directors other than the Chairman are determined by a committee of the Board comprising the Chairman and the executive directors.
Fee levels are determined taking account of time commitments and 100 responsibilities, together with comparative market rates and benchmarking data.
The fees currently paid to non-executive directors are subject to the limits set in the 50 Articles of Association.
31 Mar 04 31 Mar 05 31 Mar 06 31 Mar 07 31 Mar 08 31 Mar 09 Source: Datastream a Thomson Reuters product To ensure that the interests of the non-executive directors are aligned with those of shareholders, the current fee structure This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2009, of 100 invested in Invensys plc on 31 March 2004 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 for the non-executive directors is a basic fee of 50,000 per Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
annum, with 8,000 to be paid in shares.
Prior to December 2008, Mr Zito elected to use his entire non-executive directors basic fee after tax to acquire shares on a quarterly basis.
Each non-executive director has committed to retain these shares for the period of their directorship.
The remuneration table on page 41 includes that part of the fee used to purchase shares, and the shares are included in the table of directors interests, also on page 41.
Additional payments of 10,000 and 8,000 are paid to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee respectively.
External directorships The executive directors are encouraged to hold not more than one external non-executive directorship in order to broaden their experience for the benefit of the Company.
Such appointments are subject to approval by the Board, and the director may retain any fees paid in respect of such a directorship.
Mr Henriksson joined the board of Hexagon AB as a non-executive director in 2007, from which he retains the fees payable of SEK 350,000 approximately 29,400 per annum.
Performance graph The Company is required to include a graph indicating their TSR performance that is, share price assuming reinvestment of any dividends over the last five years relative to a recognised equity index.
Accordingly, the graph below shows the Companys performance relative to the FTSE 100, which the Committee considers an appropriate index for comparison purposes as the Company has been a member of the Index since June 2008.
2 The emoluments of the highest-paid director, Mr Henriksson, excluding pension rights were 1,990,007 2008: 2,052,854.
3 The fee structure for the non-executive directors including the Chairman and Deputy Chairman includes 8,000 per annum or, in the case of Mr Zito, all of his fee until December 2008 which, after tax, is used to buy ordinary shares in the Company for each non-executive director as described on page 40.
The shares purchased on their behalf are included in the table of directors interests set out below.
4 Mr Zito was appointed on 23 May 2007 and therefore his emoluments for 2008 relate to the period from this date to 31 March 2008.
5 Taxable and other benefits comprise items such as cash allowances in lieu of a company car, life assurance permanent health assurance, medical care and annual health checks.
All executive directors are entitled to such benefits.
In relation to Mr Henriksson, the Company pays, on a grossed-up basis, certain third-party fees incurred for UK and US tax filings and relevant immigration matters.
6 Any payment due in excess of 100% of salary is paid in ordinary shares in the Company, the vesting of which is deferred for executive directors for a period of three years.
As bonuses for 2008 09 were set at 100% of salary, no amount will be paid in shares.
Included in the total for 2008 are the amounts of 274,500 and 157,380 granted as deferred shares to Mr Henriksson and Mr Hare respectively in respect of their annual bonus for 2007 08.
The deferred shares granted in respect of the 2007 08 payments are detailed under directors interests on page 43.
No directors waived emoluments in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009 2008: nil.
Directors interests Ordinary shares The interests of the directors and their families in the shares of the Company are set out below: At 31 March 2008 At 31 March 2009 or on date of appointment if later 1,2, 5 Notes ordinary shares of 10p each ordinary shares of 10p each Bay Green 3 13,392 10,488 Jean-Claude Guez 3 31,432 27,573 Steve Hare 20,032 Ulf Henriksson 4 1,152,606 566,819 Martin Jay 3 16,662 13,746 Michael Parker 3 5,147 2,653 Sir Nigel Rudd 3 682 Pat Zito 3 16,771 6,359 Notes 1 The mid-market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2009 was 166.3p.
Between 1 April 2008 and 31 March 2009, the highest mid-market price was 343.8p and the lowest mid-market price was 122.0p.
2 All interests referred to are beneficial.
3 As described on page 40, as part of the non-executive directors fee arrangements, a proportion or all, in the case of Mr Zito until December 2008 of their fee including the Chairmans and the Deputy Chairmans is used to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
4 129,342 of the ordinary shares held by Mr Henriksson were received on the vesting of an RSP award on 31 May 2007: under the terms of the award, Mr Henriksson remains subject to an obligation to retain the shares released until 20 May 2009.
5 There have been no further changes in the interests of directors in ordinary shares between 1 April 2009 and 13 May 2009.
Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | 41 Remuneration Report continued Long-term incentive awards Details of the ordinary shares in the Company which have been conditionally awarded to executive directors under various executive plans and arrangements are set out below.
The relevant performance conditions relating to these conditional awards are set out on pages 35, 36 and 38 of this Report and in Note 29 to the Financial Statements.
2 Mid-market ordinary share prices adjusted for variations in share capital since the date of grant.
3 Mr Hares LTIP awards were forfeited on his resignation.
4 On 24 June 2007, 37% of the conditional award granted in 2004 was converted into a deferred right to acquire the relevant number of ordinary shares.
Subject to the rules of the 1998 LTIP, these deferred shares will become eligible for release at the end of a two year retention period.
5 The TSR performance condition relating to this award was met to 94.52% and consequently 50% of the shares vesting were released on 28 July 2008.
Subject to the rules of the 1998 LTIP the remaining shares under award will become eligible for release at the end of the one year retention period.
42 | Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Share options The following option over ordinary shares in the Company was granted to the named director under an individual arrangement pursuant to the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules: As at As at Option Date from 1 April 31 March price per which first Expiry Notes 2008 2009 share p exercisable date Ulf Henriksson 1 535,290 535,290 154.59 50% 21 Nov 2005 31 May 2014 50% 21 May 2007 Notes 1 The option is not subject to performance conditions.
The exercise of the option is contingent on continued employment or, at the discretion of the Committee, leaving in certain compassionate circumstances.
No options were granted, lapsed or exercised during the year.
Deferred share awards Details of ordinary shares in the Company which have been awarded to executive directors under the Deferred Share Plan are set out below: Mid-market Mid-market Awards Awards Awards share price at share price at As at granted released lapsed As at date awards date awards 1 April during during during 31 March granted vested Deferral Notes 2008 the year the year the year 2009 per share p per share p date Release date Steve Hare 1,2 54,836 54,836 286.00 24 Jul 2008 24 Jul 2011 23 Jul 2011 Ulf Henriksson 1,2 95,644 95,644 286.00 24 Jul 2008 24 Jul 2011 23 Jul 2011 Notes 1 As detailed in note 6 to the directors remuneration table on page 41 awards under the Deferred Share Plan represent any bonus payment due in excess of 100% of salary.
2 Details relating to the terms of the deferred share awards are set out in note 29 on page 107.
Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | 43
