72 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE On behalf of the Board, I am pleased LORD RENWICK OF CLIFTON, KCMG to present this Directors Remuneration Chairman, Report for the 2009 financial year, which Remuneration Committee sets out the Companys remuneration policy for executive Directors and Other members non-executive Directors and provides Philip Aiken details of their and certain senior Simon Heale managers remuneration and share interests for the year ended 31 December 2009.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the reporting requirements of The Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The unprecedented global economic downturn created an unusually challenging economic environment.
Kazakhmys has nevertheless delivered a robust set of results while taking significant steps to promote long-term growth.
During 2009, the Committee reviewed Kazakhmys approach to executive remuneration and the use of share-based incentives across the Group.
The review was driven by the changing economic climate, the continued evolution of the Group since its Listing and the need to remain competitive in the mining sector in which Kazakhmys competes for talent.
In order to ensure that Kazakhmys can continue to attract, motivate and retain high calibre personnel it is essential to offer arrangements which are competitive with other industry participants.
This year, at Kazakhmys Annual General Meeting, the Company will be seeking formal shareholder approval for UK and International Sharesave plans and UK and International Share Incentive plans.
The Company will also be seeking approval of the rules of, and a number of amendments to, Kazakhmys Long Term Incentive Plan and Executive Share Option Plan.
Details of these plans are included in the Notice of Meeting, which accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
As part of its review, the Committee considered the remuneration arrangements of the executive Directors and senior managers and determined that Oleg Novachuk and Eduard Ogay should be eligible to participate in Kazakhmys share-based incentive plans to further align their interests with those of shareholders and better allow them to participate in the long-term success of the Group.
During 2010, the Committee will be considering the changes being proposed by the Financial Reporting Council to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the recommendations arising from the Walker Review on corporate governance in UK banks and other financial institutions published in November 2009, and their implications for the Company's remuneration policy.
Any changes to the Companys remuneration policy will be reported in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com 73 The Committee is primarily responsible for determining and ACTIVITIES IN 2009 recommending to the Board the framework for executive remuneration At its meetings in 2009, the Committee considered, amongst and for determining, on behalf of the Board, the remuneration of other matters, the following: executive Directors and certain senior managers.
The Committee the 2008 Directors Remuneration Report: also has responsibility for the design of any share-based incentive plans operated by the Company, and is required to oversee the evaluation of the performance of the Committee: administration of such plans, including award levels to individual the Committees remit: executive Directors and other senior managers.
levels of base salary for executive Directors and certain GOVERNANCE senior managers: The Committee is chaired by Lord Renwick and all of the Committee members are considered by the Board to be independent non-executive determining annual bonus outturn for executive Directors Directors.
The Company Secretary attends meetings as secretary to the and certain senior managers: Committee.
The Chairman and Chief Executive are normally invited to setting awards levels and performance targets in respect attend meetings to provide information and advice to the Committee of the Companys share-based incentive plans: to enable it to make informed decisions.
They are, however, specically excluded from any matter concerning their own remuneration.
changes to the LTIP comparator group: As required by the Companies Act 2006, a resolution to approve this introduction of a number of new equity-based incentive schemes: report will be proposed at the Companys Annual General Meeting introduction of new and revised bonus arrangements for below on 14 May 2010.
Board level employees: Attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings proposed terms of appointment for David Munro: and In 2009 the Committee met three times and details of attendance at these meetings are provided in the table below.
After each meeting incentive arrangements for David Munro.
the chairman of the Committee presented a report on its activities to External adviser the full Board.
The Committee has authority to obtain the advice of external Number of scheduled Number of scheduled independent remuneration consultants.
It is solely responsible for Members Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee their appointment, retention and termination and for approval of the during the year meetings eligible to attend meetings attended basis of their fees and other terms.
In the year to 31 December 2009, Lord Renwick 33 the Committee received advice on executive compensation, Philip Aiken 33 performance-related pay schemes and equity-based incentive schemes Simon Heale 33 from Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS.
HNBS also provides advice to the Company on remuneration matters for senior employees including In addition to the three scheduled meetings of the Committee during equity-based incentives.
The terms of engagement between the the year, a further meeting was arranged at short notice to deal with Committee and HNBS are available on request.
Remuneration policy ROLE OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committee seeks to ensure that the Companys remuneration policies and practices facilitate the recruitment and motivation of high The Committees principal responsibilities are: calibre personnel with the appropriate skills to implement the Groups determining, reviewing and recommending to the Board the business objectives, while also relating reward to performance and framework for executive remuneration: aligning the interests of executive Directors and senior managers with those of shareholders.
It aims to follow best practice in relation within the agreed framework, setting, reviewing and determining to its remuneration policy and, in particular, complies with the individual remuneration arrangements for executive Directors Combined Code.
including the Chairman and certain senior managers: In constructing and reviewing remuneration packages, the emphasis approving the design of, and determining the targets for, any is on rewarding executive Directors competitively for their contribution performance-related pay schemes: to the Companys performance and for enhancing value to shareholders, determining the design of any share incentive schemes for taking into account market comparisons, the competitive pressures approval by the Board, and the grant, award, allocation or issue in the mining sector, internal relativities and sound risk management of shares, share options or payments under any such schemes: and practices.
External comparisons, including annual assessments of the relevant senior executive remuneration market, look at comparable roles approving the service agreements of each executive Director, in similar organisations in terms of operations and market capitalisation.
The Committee continues to take a responsible approach toward The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on benchmarking and aims to set reward opportunity for executive the Companys website www.
com or on request Directors within the market competitive range, but with a from the Company Secretarys department at the Companys balanced overall positioning.
74 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The strategy for executive Director remuneration, in general terms, Proposed UK and International Sharesave Plans is to provide a balanced package around the relevant mid-market level Shareholder approval is being sought for new UK Sharesave for comparable mining companies and other companies of a similar and International Sharesave plans.
These Sharesave plans provide size to Kazakhmys in the FTSE 100, with a high proportion of total an opportunity for eligible employees to save over a period of either remuneration being awarded through performance-related elements.
three or five years and to use their accumulated savings and any interest to exercise an option to acquire Kazakhmys shares at a In addition to consideration of market data, when setting salaries, predetermined exercise price.
individual judgement is exercised by the Committee, having regard to an individuals performance, experience and responsibilities, the The terms of the UK Sharesave plan and the International Sharesave Companys performance as a whole, the markets in which the Group plan are substantially the same, save that under the International operates and remuneration levels of Group employees.
Remuneration Sharesave plan the Committee will have a greater degree of arrangements and performance targets are reviewed on a regular basis discretion to determine who of its 61,000 plus employees will be to achieve these objectives.
eligible to participate and to permit eligible employees to save in a currency other than pounds sterling.
The International Sharesave plan The Committee strives to ensure that the remuneration policy provides may be amended to adopt procedures in relation to its implementation a strong and demonstrable link between incentives and the Groups to take account of overseas securities laws, exchange controls, taxation, strategy, and sets a performance-biased framework for remuneration financial regulations and both local custom and practice.
which is consistent with the Groups scale and unique circumstances, and which motivates its executive Directors and senior managers and The UK Sharesave plan will be subject to the approval of Her Majesty's enables them to share in the long-term success of the Group, without Revenue & Customs HMRC and has a number of tax benets: in delivering excessive benets or encouraging excessive risk taking.
particular, no income tax or National Insurance contributions will normally be due if the option is exercised after three years.
When designing remuneration structures and setting performance targets the Committee is mindful of environmental, social and Subject to the approval of the Company's shareholders, it is currently governance ESG matters.
In particular, it will consult with the intended that invitations to participate in the Sharesave plans will be Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee to ensure effective offered for the first time in or around August 2010 shortly following the systems are in place to mitigate against any risks in remuneration announcement of the Company's half-yearly results.
The Committee monitors progress and achievement principal terms of the Sharesave plans is set out in Appendix I to the Notice of AGM which accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
against ESG key performance indicators which, in part, determine the operational performance component of the annual bonus of Proposed UK Share Incentive Plan UK SIP and International Share the executive Directors.
Incentive Plan International SIP The UK SIP and International SIP will allow eligible employees the The Committee intends to continue with the remuneration policy for opportunity to purchase Kazakhmys shares, in the case of the UK SIP, 2010 and subsequent years, and will continue to consult on material out of their gross earnings and, in the case of the International SIP, out changes with major institutional shareholders.
of their net earnings of up to 1,500 per tax year or the local currency As previously stated, the Committee will be considering during 2010 the equivalent or, if less, an amount up to 10% of annual salary known proposed changes to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance as partnership shares.
The Company may then match the number of and the recommendations arising from the Walker Review, and their partnership shares purchased by an employee up to a maximum match implications for the Company's remuneration policy.
In particular, the of two shares for every one partnership share purchased.
In addition, Committee will be reviewing its remuneration policy in the context the Company may also offer eligible employees free shares worth up of risk and ensuring that risk management controls are in place to 1,500 per tax year or the local currency equivalent.
The terms of the UK SIP and the International SIP are substantially At present the Committee already reviews the remuneration incentives the same, save that under the International SIP the Committee will offered to those key individuals that have the most impact on the risk have a greater degree of discretion to determine who of its 61,000 prole of the business.
The Committee is satisfied with the way in which plus employees will be eligible to participate.
The Committee may also, performance objectives and risk assessments are reected in the pay in its discretion, change the structure of awards and adopt procedures structures for these individuals.
in relation to its implementation to take account of overseas securities laws, exchange controls, taxation, financial regulations and both local Overall the Committee is satisfied that remuneration policy is aligned custom and practice.
with the long-term needs of the business and that incentive quantum, The UK SIP will be subject to the approval of HMRC and has a number structure and objectives do not encourage excessive risk-taking.
of tax benets: in particular, if plan shares are held in the UK SIP for at The substantial shareholdings of the executive Directors and certain least five years, no income tax or National Insurance contributions will be senior managers assist alignment with shareholder value.
payable when the shares are withdrawn from the employee benefit trust.
Review of remuneration, and proposed changes for 2010 2011 Subject to the approval of the Company's shareholders, it is currently During the year, the Committee undertook a comprehensive review intended that invitations to participate in the SIPs will be offered for the of executive remuneration arrangements and the share-based incentive first time in or around April 2011 shortly following the announcement arrangements used more widely throughout the Group.
of the Company's preliminary results for 2010.
To encourage employee As a result of the review, the Committee decided to make and propose ownership of Kazakhmys shares, the Company intends to match, share certain changes to its share-based incentive arrangements in order for for share, each partnership share bought on a one for one basis.
A Kazakhmys to maintain its competitive position and better align the summary of the principal terms of both the UK SIP and International SIP interests of its employees with those of its shareholders.
The key are set out in Appendix I to the Notice of AGM which accompanies elements of the changes can be summarised as follows: this Annual Report and Accounts.
com 75 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP TSR Performance condition The rules of the LTIP were approved and adopted by the Board on 3 September 2007.
The LTIP is a discretionary long-term incentive 100 plan and provides for the grant of conditional free share awards to certain selected senior managers and employees excluding 75 executive Directors.
Awards will normally vest three years from the date of grant, subject to the achievement of demanding performance 50 criteria based on Kazakhmys relative total shareholder return TSR performance.
At present awards under the LTIP may only be 25 satisfied using existing shares purchased in the market.
0 The Committee wishes to amend the LTIP to permit the grant 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Performance relative to comparator group percentile of awards to executive Directors and to allow future awards to be satisfied using new issue shares and treasury shares as well as existing During the year, the Committee reviewed the comparator group and shares purchased in the market.
Accordingly, shareholders are being the following companies were added: Cameco Corporation, Fresnillo asked to approve amendments to the rules of the LTIP that will permit plc, Hochschild Mining plc, Inmet Mining Corporation and Southern awards to be granted to executive Directors and to allow the Committee Copper Corporation.
In addition, Zinfex Limited was removed from to grant and satisfy future awards over new issue shares and treasury shares as well as existing shares.
The principal terms of the LTIP the comparator group following its merger with Oxiana Limited.
and the proposed amendments are described in more detail in the The current group of comparator companies applicable for summary of the LTIP as set out in Appendix II to the Notice of AGM.
awards granted in 2010 comprises: Subject to the approval of the Company's shareholders, the Committee Alcoa Inc Anglo American plc decided in September 2009 to make an LTIP award with a face value Antofagasta plc Aquarius Platinum plc of up to two times salary to Oleg Novachuk, subject to the same BHP Billiton plc Boliden AB performance condition and performance period applying to the Cameco Corporation Eurasian Natural award made to Eduard Ogay on 26 November 2009, in order to Resources Corporation PLC retain his services as Chief Executive and allow him to participate in First Quantum Minerals Ltd Freeport-McMoran the long-term success of the Group.
However, the award will not vest Copper & Gold Inc until the third anniversary of its date of grant.
No LTIP awards will be Fresnillo plc Hochschild Mining plc made to either Vladimir Kim, due to his substantial shareholding in the Company, or David Munro, who is unable to commit to carrying Inmet Mining Corporation Korea Zinc Inc out his present duties for the Company in Kazakhstan for more than Lonmin plc Lundin Mining two years.
Corporation Rio Tinto plc Southern Copper The main objective of introducing LTIP awards into the remuneration Corporation structure for Oleg Novachuk is to provide a more balanced, Sumitomo Metal Mining Co. Ltd Teck Resources Ltd B performance-biased remuneration package consistent with Vedanta Resources plc Xstrata plc packages provided to other chief executives in comparator group companies which: Proposed Executive Share Option Plan ESOP takes into account current best practice in corporate governance The ESOP is an HMRC approved discretionary company share option and ts with Kazakhmys need to motivate its executive Directors: plan that provides for the grant of market value options up to a value provides a mix of performance targets to reward both absolute of 30,000 to certain selected UK-based senior managers excluding and relative performance: executive Directors.
Options will normally vest three years from the date of grant, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions and provides a more appropriate balance between short-term and the participant being a director or employee of the Group at that time.
long-term reward, with balance becoming more long-term: and At present options under the ESOP may only be satisfied using existing provides a more appropriate balance between xed and variable shares purchased in the market.
compensation, with phased delivery over the short, medium and The Committee wishes to amend the ESOP to permit the grant of options long term.
to executive Directors and for options to be satisfied using new issue shares Performance measure and treasury shares as well as existing shares purchased in the market.
Under the current and proposed TSR performance condition, Options granted to executive Directors and senior managers under the Kazakhmys performance will be compared to a comparator group ESOP in the future will count towards the individual limits under the LTIP of 22 UK and international mining companies, with no vesting below and will normally be subject to the same performance conditions as median TSR, 30% vesting for median performance and full vesting awards granted under the LTIP.
for upper quartile performance: a sliding scale of vesting will be applied for performance between median and upper quartile.
This Accordingly, shareholders are being asked to approve amendments to target will be reviewed annually to ensure that it remains demanding the rules of the ESOP that will permit awards to be granted to executive for future award grants.
In the event of a change of control, awards Directors and to allow the Committee to grant and satisfy future awards will normally vest on a pro rata basis by reference to the length of over new issue shares and treasury shares as well as existing shares.
time since the award was granted, and only if the performance The principal terms of the ESOP and the proposed amendments conditions can effectively be regarded as having been satisfied are described in more detail in the summary of the ESOP as set at that time.
out in Appendix II to the Notice of AGM.
% of total award vesting 76 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION Element Purpose Methodology Benchmarked against comparable mining companies To attract and maintain high and other companies of a similar size quality executives reecting Base salary market value of role Company and individual performance and executives skills Economic environment and experience Remuneration levels of Group employees Annual bonus scheme To incentivise the delivery of Payments determined on the basis of a number annual objectives consistent of discrete elements: Vladimir Kim and Oleg Operational performance including safety 33.4% with the Groups strategy Novachuk Financial performance 22.2% Target bonus 60% of salary Strategic development 22.2% Maximum bonus Shareholder return 22.2% 120% of salary Improvement in the cost base under the Groups David Munro Change Management Plan 50% Target bonus 100% of salary Overseeing progress on the Aktogay and Bozshakol Maximum bonus projects 50% 200% of salary Executive Director remuneration in 2009 Annual bonus opportunity The Committee determines the remuneration package for the At the beginning of each year, the Committee reviews the annual executive Directors and certain senior managers.
The package is performance bonus scheme to ensure it remains competitive, continues designed to attract and retain high quality executives, induce loyalty to incentivise the executive Directors and aligns their interests with and motivate them to achieve a high level of long-term corporate those of shareholders.
performance in line with the best interests of shareholders, whilst For 2009, the potential maximum performance-related bonus payable avoiding excessive short-term risk taking.
The principal elements was 120% of base salary for Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk, and of remuneration for executive Directors in 2009 were base salary, 200% of base salary for David Munro.
benets in kind and an annual bonus opportunity, which are further explained below.
Bonuses, which are payable wholly in cash, are disclosed for the year in which they are earned although they are not due and payable until Base salary and benets the following March after the release of the audited financial results.
Base salaries are reviewed annually, with any increases normally effective from 1 January.
Adjustments in base salary are made Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk to reflect movements in the employment market, the general For Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk the annual bonus opportunity economic environment, internal relativities and individual and comprises four discrete elements: an operational performance Company performance.
Base salaries paid to executive Directors component including safety representing 33.4% of potential bonus, are adjusted to take account of the absence of any pension provision.
a financial performance component representing 22.2% of potential In line with competitive practice, executive Directors are entitled bonus, a strategic development measure including execution of new to receive additional benefits including use of a car for business projects representing 22.2% of potential bonus and a shareholder purposes and medical insurance.
return measure representing 22.2% of potential bonus.
Specific targets are not disclosed as they would give a clear indication of The base salaries for the executive Directors for 2008, 2009 and 2010 the Groups business targets which are commercially sensitive.
are shown in the table below.
For 2009 Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk accepted a decrease in their base salaries of approximately 9%, reecting In determining the actual bonus payments, the Committee takes into the difficult economic environment of the Group.
With effect from consideration such factors as performance related to the Groups 1 January 2010, they received a 5% increase in their 2009 base salaries.
financial KPIs, operational performance against budget, safety The increase reects their contribution to the strong performance of the performance, business development activities and performance Group in 2009 and the levels of base salary and total remuneration in against industry peers.
Payments are made in return for the comparator companies.
For David Munro whose salary was increased achievement of stretching objectives.
from 600,000 to 720,000 with effect from 1 April 2009, reecting his In the course of 2009, Kazakhmys substantially outperformed both relocation and that of his family to Kazakhstan and the direct role he the FTSE100 comparator group and the FTSE350 Mining Index.
is playing in modernising and improving the Companys operations in Helped by the recovery in copper prices, but also by very effective Kazakhstan, and the fact that he does not participate in any share-based management actions to control costs and successfully develop the incentive plans.
With effect from 1 April 2010, he will receive an increase Groups strategy, including the sale of 50% of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 in salary to 750,000.
The base salaries of the Groups workforce power business to Samruk and progress in securing a $2.7 billion loan in the United Kingdom and Kazakhstan increased on average from the China Development Bank and Samruk for the development by approximately 4.2% and 7.5% for 2010, respectively.
of the Bozshakol and other organic growth projects, Kazakhmys 1 Executive Directors 2008 2009 2010 delivered the best share price performance on the FTSE100 base salaries 000 000 000 over the calendar year.
Of this salary, 647,000 was paid by Kazakhmys Corporation LLC and the balance was paid by the Company.
An adjustment is made to his salary each year to ensure that his aggregate salary for the year equates to his salary denominated in UK pounds sterling as a result of exchange rate differences.
In recognition of these achievements, bonuses earned by Vladimir Kim Pensions and Oleg Novachuk in 2009 were 85% of base salary, compared with The Company does not provide pension benets on behalf of any 35% of base salary in 2008, reecting the Groups strong performance executive Directors.
The absence of any pension provision is taken into in 2009.
A top decile performance target on shareholder return and account when setting base salaries and other elements of remuneration.
above target performance on the other three measures were achieved.
Employee benefit Trust The actual bonus payments received by them are shown in the The Kazakhmys Employee benefit Trust has been established to acquire table opposite.
ordinary shares in the Company, by subscription or purchase, from funds David Munro provided by the Group to satisfy rights to shares arising on the exercise In deference to the views of some shareholders and governance of awards under the Groups share-based incentive plans.
The trustees institutions, David Munro decided to forego options granted to him of the Kazakhmys Employee benefit Trust have informed the Company under a special once-only share option grant under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R that their intention is to abstain from voting in respect of the Kazakhmys as well as participation in the Change Management Plan as detailed shares held in the trust.
in the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts.
Following this decision and Performance graph as David Munro does not receive any share-based incentives due The graph below shows the value, at 31 December 2009, of 100 to the time-frame to which he is committed to his present role with invested in Kazakhmys PLC shares on 6 October 2005 the initial Listing the Company not more than two years, and nor does he receive any date compared with an equivalent investment in the FTSE 100 Index and pension benets, it was agreed that his base salary should be increased FTSE 350 Mining Sector Index.
These indices were chosen as they are to 720,000 per annum 750,000 per annum with effect from 1 April broad-based indices of which the Company is a member and are widely 2010 and that his maximum bonus entitlement should be increased recognised performance comparisons for large UK mining companies.
to two times salary, with a target level of one times salary.
David Munros annual bonus opportunity comprises two discrete Total Shareholder Return elements: measurable improvements in the cost base of the Company and its operations under the programme of change being developed 300 and implemented by him in Kazakhstan representing 50% of potential 269 266 bonus and progress on the Groups two major organic growth projects 210 225 Aktogay and Bozshakol representing 50% of potential bonus.
221 143 144 213 In determining the actual bonus payment, the Committee takes 150 100 115 100 into consideration such factors as improvements in procurement, 129 120 118 105 93 75 outsourcing, maintenance and development, mine planning, IT support 46 and training net of any currency movements, safety performance and 0 culture, and the achievement on time and on budget of the various 6 Oct 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2005 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 project milestones of the Groups major organic growth projects.
Kazakhmys PLC The bonus earned by David Munro in 2009 has been set at 120% FTSE 350 Mining Sector Index of base salary.
Above target performance on both measures was FTSE 100 Index achieved in 2009 reecting the significant progress made in Source: Thomson Reuters developing a change management plan across the Groups businesses in Kazakhstan and in developing the Aktogay and Bozshakol projects.
78 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Service agreements Non-executive Director fees The Companys policy is that executive Directors will be employed on a Fees for the non-executive Directors are determined by the Board contract that can be terminated by the Company on giving no more than as a whole, upon the recommendation of the executive Directors, one years notice, with the Director required to give up to six months with regard to market practice and to reect individual responsibilities notice of termination.
The contracts of Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk and membership of Board Committees.
are terminable by either the Company or the executive on three months The Board reviews non-executive Directors fees periodically.
These were granted to them on 26 September 2005.
The contract the base fee for non-executive Directors was reduced from 120,000 of David Munro is terminable by either the Company or him on giving to 84,000, with additional fees paid to the Senior Independent Director, six months notice.
The contract was granted to him on 30 March 2009. and Board Committee chairmen and members.
Non-executive Directors The Committee continues to believe that, in the event of do not participate in any of the Companys share schemes or incentive early termination, it is more appropriate to consider the specic plans, nor do they accrue pension benets from the Company for their circumstances of each case.
This includes, where appropriate, phased non-executive Director services.
The fee structure as at 31 December payment of compensation over a xed period or until the executive 2009 is shown below.
No increase in non-executive Director fees is Director nds a new position, if earlier, and mitigation of payment of proposed for 2010. compensation through a legal obligation on the part of the outgoing Base fee 84,000 executive Director to seek new employment, rather than explicitly Plus: provide for compensation payments in service contracts.
Senior Independent Director 12,000 Policy on external appointments Chairman of the The Committee believes that the Company can benefit from executive following Board Committees: Directors holding one approved non-executive directorship of another Audit, GHSE and Remuneration 12,000 company, offering Directors the opportunity to broaden their experience Member of the and knowledge.
Company policy is to allow Directors to retain fees paid following Board Committees: from any such appointment.
David Munro is a non-executive director 1 Audit, GHSE and Remuneration 6,000 of Lonmin plc and is a member of its Nomination Committee and Safety 1 No fee is paid for membership of a Committee if a non-executive Director and Sustainability Committee.
In this capacity he receives a total annual already receives a fee as either the Senior Independent Director or the chairman fee of 65,000 which he retains.
Non-executive Directors Fees paid to non-executive Directors during the year ended Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but each has 31 December 2009 are set out below: a letter of appointment with the Company.
Each letter of appointment provides for a one-month notice period.
Non-executive Directors are Total fees normally appointed for two consecutive three-year terms, with any Non-executive 2008 2009 third term of three years being subject to rigorous review and taking Directors fees 000 000 into account the need progressively to refresh the Board.
Non-executive Philip Aiken 120 109 Directors are subject to election at the AGM following their appointment Clinton Dines from 1 October 2009 23 and subsequently at intervals of no more than three years.
For each Simon Heale 120 102 non-executive Director who served during 2009, the effective date Peter Hickson from 5 March 2009 79 of their letter of appointment and the date of the next Annual General 1 Vladimir Ni 385 415 Meeting at which they are subject to re-election or election is shown Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG 120 102 in the table below.
2 Daulet Yergozhin 14 93 Next AGM Date of re-election 1 Vladimir Nis remuneration consists of two elements: a non-executive Directors appointment or election fee of 93,000 per annum in respect of his duties as a non-executive Director Philip Aiken 1 November 2006 May 2010 of the Company and a salary of $502,000 322,000 per annum in respect Clinton Dines 1 October 2009 May 2010 of his duties as chairman of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC.
Simon Heale 1 January 2007 May 2010 2 As a minister of the Government of Kazakhstan, Daulet Yergozhin is not Peter Hickson 5 March 2009 May 2012 permitted to receive fees personally and his fees were paid to the Biodiversity Fund of Kazakhstan.
Vladimir Ni 23 September 2005 May 2011 Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG 1 December 2005 May 2011 Daulet Yergozhin 19 November 2008 May 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com 79 Chief Financial Ofcers remuneration The emoluments for the year ended 31 December 2009 of Matthew Hird, Chief Financial officer, were as shown in the table below.
Base Annual Total salary bonus 2009 Chief Financial Ofcers remuneration 000 000 000 Matthew Hird 409 327 736 Matthew Hird is also entitled to participate in a dened contribution pension scheme operated for all UK-based staff excluding executive Directors.
LTIP awards for senior managers Selected senior managers, excluding executive Directors, are entitled to participate in the Kazakhmys Long Term Incentive Plan 2007.
Awards under this plan were granted for nil consideration over a total of 262,987 shares on 7 April 2009 and over 74,240 on 26 November 2009, when the prevailing market price was 421p and 1,213p, respectively.
These awards will vest on 7 April 2012 and 26 November 2012, respectively, to the extent that the performance condition set out on page 75 is satisfied.
Awards granted under the plan included 72,531 awards to Matthew Hird.
Further details of the Companys senior executive equity-based incentive plans are given in note 26 on page 132.
Directors interests in ordinary shares The interests of the Directors who held ofce at 31 December 2009 in the Companys ordinary shares as at that date and 1 January 2009 are shown in table below.
Ordinary shares at Ordinary shares at Directors interests 1 January 31 December in ordinary shares 2009 2009 Philip Aiken 4,000 4,000 Simon Heale 5,000 5,000 Vladimir Kim 208,183,588 208,183,588 David Munro 41,211 41,211 Vladimir Ni 11,686,855 11,686,855 Oleg Novachuk 34,923,423 34,923,423 Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG 4,000 4,000 1 No changes in Directors interests occurred in the period 1 January 2010 to 29 March 2010.
2 The market value of the Companys shares in 2009 was in the range of 199p to 1,328p.
Auditable information The Groups auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have audited the information contained in the tables headed Executive Directors base salaries, Executive Directors total remuneration, non-executive Directors fees, Chief Financial Ofcers remuneration and Directors interests in ordinary shares.
On behalf of the Board Lord Renwick Chairman, Remuneration Committee 29 March 2010
