Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 19 Transforming acquisitions.
Buying companies is one thing.
Adding We added Caswell Internationals groundsea and airborne vehicle applications, value to those businessesand those based targetry to our aerial targetry and which include gearbox lubrication: fuel we combine them withquite another.
At the systems: electronics, avionics, laser As recent acquisitions demonstrate, same time, we enhanced the functionality and radar systems: and the provision of we do both.
of Caswells products with our unique radar breathable air for fire fighting and damage scoring technology.
control teams on naval ships.
Lodge sensors enhanced our vibration measurement capability and widened Western Design Howden develops and Renamed Meggitt Western Design and Meggitts engine condition monitoring offer.
manufactures environmental control Meggitt Airdynamics respectively, these We combined our world class fire detection systems: and sophisticated automated acquisitions widen access to the United technology with Kamans high speed, high ammunition handling technology for States Department of Defense and some temperature cable, now certified to replace land, sea and air combat, using the high of its largest defence contractors.
the organic wiring in the Boeing 737NGs speed rotational engineering principles fire detection system: and integrated BAE common to Meggitts aerial decoy Meggitt gains an entry point for the transfer Systems rugged military air data and data deployment systems.
of aerospace technology to substantial acquisition products with our sophisticated ground-based fighting vehicle programmes.
commercial avionics, entering a new market Sister company, Howden Airdynamics In turn, we will provide these companies with a major fighter aircraft technology designs and manufactures military grade with the opportunity to develop aerospace upgrade contract.
pumps, high pressure air compressors applications for their environmental and fans and blowersagain, using control systems, extended by the groups In 2003, we expanded our defence markets technology we understand.
This equipment complementary sensor, control valve with three major acquisitions.
is customised for a wide range of land, and electronics technologies.
Bought: Bought: Bought: Bought: Western Lodge TCC valve Caswell Design Howden, sensors product line International Howden from Smiths from General 16.9m Airdynamics Group plc Electric 26.4m 33.0m 17.2m Nov 02 Dec 02 Jan 03 Feb 03 Mar 03 Apr 03 May 03 Jun 03 Jul 03 Aug 03 Sep 03 Oct 03 Nov 03 Dec 03 Jan 04 Sold: Sold: Wayfarer Transit Meggitt Systems and Petroleum Systech Solutions Systems 15.0m 3.2m 20 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Turbine clearance control valve This technology optimises the rotor expansion that normally occurs at high temperatures during parts of an aircraft turbines operating cycle.
The valve controls the air flow on to the turbine case, varying the temperature so that the case can contract and expand in the cruise condition.
Precise control of the turbine and case clearances minimises aerodynamic losses, reduces fuel burn and improves efficiency.
Operating temperature: -55C to 620C Shroud control: within.
005 inch of the engine fan blades operating up to speeds of 14,000 RPM Weight: 40% lighter than the previous standard Reducing emissions: increasing performance.
intelligent solutions and we bring more Meggitts group values are based on value to our commercial relationships.
strict financial and other internal control systems: a systematic approach to risk We are always responding to commercial management: cross-fertilisation and aircraft producers broad requirement for standardisation of operational processes: lighter and more reliable aircraft, cutting and investment in people, plant and the cost of ownership with technology that product development.
reduces fuel consumption and downtime for maintenance, repairs and overhaul.
We also take care to ensure that we can continue to respond to customer Our latest initiative combines engineering needs with the speed and flair associated skill in sensor manufacturing and with the individual enterprises that electronics expertise.
Meggitt is working comprise our group.
with the worlds pre-eminent aircraft manufacturers to develop the network But there is more to problem solving at sensors standard that will enable sensors Meggitt than immediate and imaginative to be connected and to communicate with reaction.
We apply the broadest intelligence each other in any environment.
Among to customers big picture issues.
We dont other benefits, such networked sensor wait for them to come to us for a specific solutions could lower aircraft weight, technology they think they need, to an reducing the 400 miles of cabling typically application they have already developed.
deployed on a jet liner to around four.
In so doing, customers benefit from more Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 21
