12 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 13 Dynamic pressure sensor Providing mission critical measurement for developing, testing and monitoring propulsion systems, this extreme environment sensor continues to function after feeling the first flame of Ariane 5s cryogenic engine gas generator at 1250Cfrom a standing start of a very cool -196C after the engine has been purged with liquid nitrogen and helium.
If the sensor does not react to the shock of ignited hydrogen and oxygen, the launch is abandoned.
Temperature range: -196C to 1250C Shock acceleration: 2000g peak Resolution: 0.0005 bar Atmospheric tolerance: corrosion and humidity resistant Measurement is the foundation of scientific experimentation.
With the rapid growth of Chinas economy, Many of Meggitts key customersGE, Some of Meggitts market leading customers Meggitt is confident that it can win Boeing and Rolls-Royce among them Agusta Westland Hamilton Sundstrand business from sectors in which we have AIDC - Taiwan Honeywell have global strategies to reduce product Airbus Ilyushin long experienceaerospace, automotive, cost through local sourcing.
And many Alenia Lockheed Martin medical and, of course, maintenance, want a specific support infrastructure Antonov Medtronic repair and overhaul support for industrial in Asia from their suppliers, identifying Arianespace Northrop Grumman BAE Systems Pilatus gas turbines and aircraft.
China as an important centre for raw Bell Helicopter Pratt & Whitney materials, finished goods, services, Boeing Raytheon Meggitts Chinese facility is located manufacturing operations, engineering, Bombardier Rockwell Collins in Xiamens Special Economic Zone.
Cessna Rolls-Royce plc CIAM Saab A medium-sized coastal city in South China, Commander Aircraft Saga Xiamen is a regional electronics centre Thats why, in 2003, Meggitt finalised an DaimlerChrysler Siemens with an aviation oriented inward investment initial $12.0 million investment plan that DASA Sikorsky drive.
European and United States multitakes the group into the region, enabling us Dassault Aviation Statoil Dornier Tupolev nationals including GE Aircraft Engines to meet our customers global sourcing ELA The New Piper are present there: and others have made expectations and remain a top tier supplier.
EADS Aircraft, Inc well publicised commitments to invest.
Embraer UK Ministry of Defence The initiative will also provide us with a low Eurocopter US Department General Electric of Defense We aim to build the facility, recruit and train cost export arm, a technology development General Motors and many other staff in 2004 and start production in 2005. centre to support Meggitt businesses GKN Westland national defence group-wide, and significant opportunities Guidant Corporation organisations for on-the-ground organic growth.
