REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS he directors submit their Report and the audited Accounts which in turn holds 51% of the issued share capital of Sociedade Tof The Mersey Docks and Harbour Company for the year fide Desenvolvimento do Porto fide Maputo S. A. R. L. a company ended 31st December, 2003. registered in Mozambique and which is responsible for the redevelopment and operation of the Port of Maputo in Mozambique.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW Princes Dock Development Company Limited, a wholly owned The principal activities of the Group are the operation and subsidiary is responsible for the development of the Princes Dock maintenance of port facilities on the Rivers Mersey and Medway site in Liverpool.
and at Heysham, the provision of cargo handling and associated The Company has a 50% interest in Fresh Fruit Terminal services, the conservancy and pilotage of the ports of Liverpool, Sheerness Limited, which during 2003 operated a fresh Medway and Heysham and their approaches and the produce facility at the Port of Sheerness.
development of their respective dock estates.
The Company is The Company owns the entire issued share capital of the police authority for the Port of Liverpool Police Force and is TR Shipping Services Limited which provides a freight forwarding the operator of both the Liverpool Freeport and of the Freeport service between Britain, Continental Europe and Ireland.
The at the Port of Sheerness.
Company owns the entire issued share capital of Seawing The Group owns the entire issued share capital of Port of Sheerness International Limited which provides freight forwarding and ships Limited and of Heysham Port Limited which own and operate the agency services.
ports of Sheerness Chatham and Heysham respectively.
Other wholly-owned subsidiaries, Roadferry Limited and Dublin The Group owns the entire issued share capital of Marine Container and Transport Services Limited, provide logistics and Terminals Limited, incorporated in the Republic of Ireland, which port services.
operates a container terminal at the Port of Dublin.
Tank Trans Limited a wholly-owned subsidiary which is Coastal Container Line Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary, operates incorporated in the Republic of Ireland, provides transport a door to door container service through the ports of Liverpool, services for tank containers.
Belfast, Dublin and Cardiff and provides stevedoring services.
The Company has a 50% interest in Northwestern Shiprepairers The Company owns the entire issued share capital of BG Freight and Shipbuilders Limited which undertakes shiprepairing and Line Holding B. V. of Rotterdam which is involved in container ship conversions on Merseyside and elsewhere.
services between Northern Continental Europe, Britain and The Company has a beneficial interest in 88.2% of the issued Ireland and in European forwarding activities.
ordinary shares of Wakeley Brothers Rainham, Kent Limited The Company owns the entire issued share capital of Concorde which has property interests in Kent.
Container Line Limited which operates a container service A review of the development of the business of the Group during between Northern Continental Europe and the East Coast of the year and future prospects is contained in the Operating and England and Scotland.
Portia Management Services Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary, undertakes consultancy assignments in connection with port and RESULTS harbour management and operations.
The Groups results are set out in the profit and loss account on The Company owns 35.89% of the issued share capital of Portus page 40.
Indico - Sociedade fide Servios Porturios, S. A. registered in Madeira a bc a Increasing volumes of containers are handled at Sheerness b A deepsea car carrier at Sheerness c Cans stacked in a Roadferry warehouse 23 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS DIVIDENDS governance.
Specific responsibilities have been delegated to An interim dividend of 7.1p per ordinary share was paid on 23rd various Board committees.
The Company has separate posts of Chairman and Chief A final dividend of 16.0p per ordinary share is proposed and a Executive.
The Chairman leads the Board and the Chief resolution will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
If Executive is responsible for the management of the Company, the proposed final dividend is approved, payment will be made implementing policies and strategies determined by the Board.
on 20th May, 2004, to those shareholders on the register at 30th The Board comprises the Chairman, two non executive directors April, 2004. and four executive directors including the Chief Executive.
The non executive directors are considered by the Board to be SHARES IN ISSUE independent of management and free from any business or During the year the Company issued 129,831 ordinary 10p other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of shares pursuant to the Companys Executive Share Option their independent judgement.
Scheme and 331,501 ordinary 10p shares pursuant to Savings Mr James had been a senior corporate adviser with Hoare Related Share Option Schemes.
In accordance with shareholders Govett Limited, prior to his retirement in July 2002.
Hoare Govett authorities, the Company has purchased for cancellation during Limited are the Companys brokers but Mr Jamess involvement the year a total of 7,595,000 ordinary 10p shares representing in that capacity with the Companys affairs within the last three 8.91% of the shares in issue at the start of 2003.
Under the years has not been material.
The Board is satisfied that Mr present shareholders authority, the outstanding number of James brings an independent judgement to the Boards ordinary 10p shares available for purchase is 7,977,209.
total number of ordinary 10p shares in issue at the year end was The Board has for many years had a significant non executive 78,100,894.
There have been no purchases of shares for membership.
The non executive directors have full access to the cancellation by the Company since 31st December 2003.
Since external auditors and to management and there is a formal the year end the total number of ordinary shares in issue has procedure for directors to obtain independent professional advice increased to 78,101,457 with the issue of 563 ordinary 10p in the furtherance of their duties should this be necessary.
All shares pursuant to the Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board meets regularly once a month, and is supplied as The Board supports high standards in corporate governance and early as practicable with an agenda and appropriate papers.
is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and Further ad hoc meetings of the Board are held as and professionalism in all its activities.
Directors are appointed by the Board on After making enquiries, in accordance with the recommendations recommendation from the Nomination Committee.
The Board of paragraph D. 1.3 of the Combined Code, the directors consider monitors the financial performance of the Group, and approves that the Company has adequate resources to continue operations and reviews major projects and acquisitions.
The Board has for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the accounts continue to formally adopted a schedule of matters which are reserved to be prepared on the going concern basis.
the Board for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains control The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of corporate over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and 24 compliance issues.
succeed the late Mr Taylor and an additional independent non The Chairman and the non executive directors met once during executive director during the course of the year.
the year without the executive directors being present.
A revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance was issued by All the directors attended all of the main board meetings other the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, which is effective for than Mr Waddell and Mr Allen who missed one each and Mr financial years beginning on or after 1st November, 2003.
The James who attended 6 such meetings having been appointed Board has reviewed and is in the course of applying the additional on 1st June, 2003.
In addition a number of Board meetings were requirements of the revised Combined Code.
held to deal with purely administrative matters such as allotment of shares under Saving Related Share Option Schemes.
BOARD COMMITTEES Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election The principal Board Committees are the Audit Committee, the every three years as provided in the Combined Code.
Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Board members are encouraged to participate in relevant Chief Executives Committee.
training courses relating to matters such as directors duties and Since the year end new formal terms of reference, based on liabilities and the Combined Code.
current guidelines, have been adopted for each of the Audit, The Company holds meetings with representatives of its Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
institutional shareholders following publication of its interim and Mr. C. G. James has been appointed Acting Chairman of the final results to discuss objectives and holds ad hoc meetings Audit Committee following the death of Mr Taylor.
All the with them as appropriate.
The Company aims to members of the Audit Committee are non executive directors.
use the Annual General Meeting AGM for constructive The role of the Committee is to oversee, review and develop communication with its private shareholders and the Chairman the effectiveness of the Groups financial and accounting and other directors are available at the AGM to answer procedures and policies.
The Committee reviews annually the questions.
In particular, the Chairman seeks to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the auditors and the level Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination of non-audit services provided to the Group by the auditors Committees are available to answer questions at the AGM.
The having regard to relevant ethical and professional guidance in Company responds to letters from private shareholders on a respect of the provision of non-audit services including the variety of subjects.
Information on the Group, including the most rotation of audit partners and the level of fees paid.
The recent Group Annual Report and Accounts and press releases, is auditors, Chief Executive and Finance Director are invited to also made available on its web sites as shown on page 72. attend Audit Committee meetings as required.
However, at all The Company has throughout the year complied with the such meetings time is allowed for the Audit Committee to provisions set out in the Combined Code on Corporate discuss issues with the external auditors with no executive Governance issued by the London Stock Exchange in 1998 and directors present.
The Audit Committee met on three occasions incorporated in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services during the year.
All members of the Committee at the relevant Authority, except that following the death on 18th November, time attended each meeting of the Committee.
Both the 2003 of Mr Frank Taylor, who had been appointed senior current members of the Committee, Mr Allen and Mr James, independent director, it has not yet appointed a successor.
The have significant recent experience of corporate finance matters.
Board intends to appoint an independent non executive director to During the year, the Committee undertook a review and tender cd e a b a Reeled paper is discharged from a roll-on roll-off ship at Medway b One ship on the move with another loading at Liverpool c A forest of cranes and ships at Sheerness d Containers carried by Concorde Container Line in Scotland e Liverpools new ship-to-shore cranes working a line of vessels at the Seaforth Container Terminal 25 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS exercise in relation to the appointment of external auditors as well as financial controls.
The Board has in place procedures following which the Committee recommended that the current complying with the formal guidance on the review of internal auditors,  LLP, be re-appointed as controls contained in the Turnbull report published in September, external auditors.
1999 and these procedures have remained in place throughout The Remuneration Committee is under the Chairmanship of 2003 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Mr. A. V. Allen.
The members are the Company Chairman and the Accounts.
In addition the Board takes regular account of the non executive directors.
The Chief Executive attends meetings of significance of social, environmental and ethical matters in the Committee as and when requested.
The Committee has regard to the business of the Group and seeks to take an ethical formal terms of reference and meets to determine the view of its responsibilities in pursuing business opportunities.
remuneration of the executive directors and senior managers The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of including basic salary, performance related bonus arrangements, internal control, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective benefits in kind, pension benefits and long term incentive plans control over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and following consultation with external advisers.
The Group has an organisational structure held three meetings during the year, each of which was with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of attended by all who were members at the relevant time.
There are also established procedures for planning and The Board has delegated primary authority for day-to-day capital expenditure together with information and reporting management of the Groups operations to the Chief Executives systems for monitoring the Groups business and performance.
Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, which exercises its The directors have delegated to executive management authority in accordance with policies and limitations laid down implementation of the system of internal control throughout the by the Board.
The Committee, which meets on a monthly basis Group.
This includes financial controls which enable the Board to comprises the Groups senior executive management.
meet its responsibilities for the integrity and accuracy of the The Nomination Committee is under the Chairmanship of the Groups accounting records.
The Group Report and Accounts, Company Chairman and comprises, in addition, the Chief prepared from these records, complies fully with generally Executive and Mr. C. G James.
Mr F. W. Taylor was also a member accepted accounting principles.
The directors have reviewed the of the Committee until his death.
The Committee has formal effectiveness of the system of internal financial control.
Having terms of reference and is responsible for the selection of and reviewed its effectiveness, the directors are not aware of any recommendation for appointment of executive and non significant weakness or deficiency in the Groups system of executive directors to the Board.
The Committee met once internal controls during the year.
during the year with regard to the appointment of Mr James to The internal control system is monitored and supported by a the Board.
Group Business Assurance Manager, who reports to the Chief Executive on the Groups operations.
The work of the Group INTERNAL CONTROL Business Assurance Manager is focused on the areas of greatest The Combined Code requires that directors review the risk to the Group determined on the basis of a risk management effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
requirement extends the directors review to cover all controls Procedures are in place to identify any major business risks, including operational compliance controls and risk management including social, environmental and ethical risks, and to evaluate 26 their potential financial effects.
In this connection the Board The names of the present directors of the Company are listed carries out a detailed annual and half yearly review of the on page 4. material risks facing the Group.
In 2003, the risk assessments carried out have continued to be reviewed and strengthened as Peter Jones and Alastair Findlay retire in accordance with part of the Boards response to the guidance contained within Article 1 H i of the Articles of Association and being eligible the Turnbull Report.
Additionally, some years ago, the Board offer themselves for re-election.
created a Risk Management Strategy Group and Working Party Peter Jones and Alastair Findlay have service contracts with the with the objectives of enhancing the risk management culture Company of which the unexpired period is 12 months.
within the Group, of assisting the Groups businesses to identify and control their risks and of making policy proposals in this Garth James was appointed a director with effect from 1st area.
A Risk Management Report is prepared twice a year for June, 2003.
Mr. James retires in accordance with Article review by the Board.
The Report identifies the operational, 1 H vii of the Articles of Association and being eligible offers financial and environmental risks which could impact on the himself for re-election.
Mr. James does not have a service business of the Group.
Appropriate procedures are put in place contract with the Company.
to minimise the effect of such risks.
During the course of the year a more formal procedure was introduced with regard to Details of the Companys directors are as follows: the regular review by the Board of social, environmental and ethical risks relating to the Group.
Appointed a director of External audits are also undertaken by the Groups brokers and the Company on 1st April, 1993 and Chairman on 7th relevant insurers in relation to the Groups risk management September, 1993.
He is a director of Dimension Data Holdings procedures.
Mr. Waddell is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and It has to be acknowledged that any system of internal control a member of the Remuneration Committee of the Board.
can provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions authorised and recorded Peter Jones 49.
Appointed a director of the Company on properly and that material errors and irregularities are either 8th June, 1993, having previously held various management prevented or would be detected within a timely period.
positions in the port industry.
Following a period as Port Manager with the Forth Ports Authority, he joined the Company DIRECTORS in 1991, assuming responsibility for shipping operations.
He Mr. J. R. F. Walls did not seek re-election as a director at the was appointed Port Operations Director in January, 1997, and Annual General Meeting on 8th May, 2003.
Deputy Chief Executive, in February, 1999.
He was appointed Mr. C. G. James was appointed a non executive director of the Chief Executive on 12th April, 2000.
He is a director of Company on 1st June, 2003 and will be seeking re-election at Northwestern Shiprepairers and Shipbuilders Limited and is also the Annual General Meeting.
a director of various subsidiaries and associated undertakings.
Mr. F. W. Taylor, a non executive director of the Company, died Mr. Jones is a member of the Nomination Committee and on 18th November, 2003.
Chairman of the Chief Executives Committee.
He is a non a bc d e f a A special grab loads scrap metal into a ship b One of several modern tank farms, Liverpool c P&O European Ferries operate two sailings a day in each direction between Liverpool and Dublin d A train loads imported caol at Liverpool e A busy apron at a Roadferry depot f Staff serving customers of Roadferry and Palletline 27 executive director of Through Transport Mutual Insurance and was previously a corporate finance director of a City Association Limited.
He is a Company Trustee of the Groups principal pension funds.
He is a director of Northwestern Shiprepairers Tony Allen 55.
Appointed a director of the and Shipbuilders Limited and is also a director of various Company on 6th August, 1996.
He retired as an Executive subsidiaries and associated undertakings.
director - investment banking - N M Rothschild & Sons Limited with effect from 31st December, 2002.
He is a non executive Garth James 56.
Appointed a director of the director of Trifast plc and Smithfield Trustee Limited.
Mr. Allen is Company on 1st June, 2003.
Mr. James retired as a senior Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of the Board and a corporate finance adviser with Hoare Govett in July 2002.
He is member of the Audit Committee of the Board.
currently Acting Chairman of the Audit Committee and he is also a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees of Desmond Crampton 50.
Appointed Port Operations Director the Board.
Since July 1997 he had been Director of Medway, responsible for the Groups Medway operations having Ken Wharton 58.
Appointed a director of the Company on 7th joined the Group from the Tees and Hartlepool Port Authority August, 1989.
He has been responsible for the Companys Limited where he had been Operations Manager since 1993.
Marketing division and prior to that for the operation of the Prior to joining that Authority he had been Operations Director Seaforth Grain Terminal.
In October, 1997 he was appointed of Medway Ports Limited since 1991.
He is Chairman of Port Shipping and Overseas Development Director responsible for the Skills and Safety Limited.
Companys Irish Sea and other shipping interests and for its overseas consultancy and port management interests.
He is also Alastair Findlay 51.
Appointed Finance Director of the a director of various subsidiaries and associated undertakings.
He is a chartered accountant a bc a A lineboat and tug safely secure a vessel arriving at Sheerness b Sightseers view a cruise ship anchored off Liverpools Pier Head c Steel is discharged at the Gladstone Terminal, Liverpool 29 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS DIRECTORS INTERESTS in respect of certain of the Groups stevedoring and shipping risks.
The beneficial interests of the directors who held office on 31st Details of the directors interests in the Companys Executive Share December, 2003 or their immediate families in the share capital Option Scheme, Savings Related Share Option Schemes and Long of the Company are as follows: Term Incentive Plan are shown in the Remuneration Report.
Ordinary 10p shares STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES At 1st Jan. At 31st Dec. Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 2003 2003 statements for each financial year, that give a true and fair view or date of appointment of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the G. H. Waddell 21,400 21,400 profit and loss of the Group for the period.
In preparing those A. V. Allen 5,000 5,000 financial statements, the directors are required to:- D. Crampton 4,150 7,066 A. I. Findlay 55,000 67,816 select suitable accounting policies and apply them P. A. Jones 86,000 125,647 consistently: C. G. James 2,000 2,000 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and K. J. Wharton 15,500 66,316 prudent state whether applicable accounting standards have been The market price of the shares at 31st December, 2003 was followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 662.5p 2002 466.5p and ranged between 671.0p and 441.0p explained in the financial statements and during the year.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will Mr A. I. Findlay and Mr K. J. Wharton had at 31st December, 2003 continue in business.
a non beneficial interest in 395,438 ordinary shares in their The directors confirm that they have complied with the above capacity as directors of Mersey Docks Trustees Limited which requirements in preparing the financial statements.
holds the shares for the purpose of an employee benefit trust and approved profit share scheme.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The only change in the above interests since the 31st December financial position of the Company and of the Group and to enable 2003 and 3rd March 2004 has been that the non beneficial them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the interests of Mr A. I. Findlay and Mr. K. J. Wharton in the ordinary Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding shares of 10p in their capacity as directors of Mersey Docks the assets of the Company and of the Group and hence for taking Trustees Limited has reduced to 395,246.
None of the directors reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and had any material interest, either during or at the end of the year, other irregularities.
in any contract of significance in relation to the Groups business, The maintenance and integrity of the Groups websites is the other than contracts of service in respect of the executive responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the directors.
auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, During the year Mr P. A. Jones was appointed a non executive accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes director of Through Transport Mutual Insurance Association that may have occurred to the financial statements since they Limited who have for a number of years provided insurance cover were initially presented on the website.
30 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and donation to St Vincents School for the Blind.
The Group also dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation contributes to the education of children and students by offering in other jurisdictions.
professionally guided tours of the Ports of Liverpool and Sheerness, free of charge to schools and colleges.
In the arts, the RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Group sponsors an annual concert of the Royal Liverpool Details of related party transactions which the Group undertakes Philharmonic Orchestra.
are disclosed in Note 29 on page 69.
The Company has also made available to The Community Foundation for Merseyside a sum which is specifically directed at SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS AS AT 3rd MARCH, 2004 small local appeals by community groups on Merseyside.
The Company has been notified of the following interests Business units within the Group may also make donations in pursuant to section 198 of the Companies Act 1985: their respective localities.
In addition to charitable donations to local charities, the Company No.
of Ordinary % supports local enterprise through an investment in the 10p shares Holding Merseyside Special Investment Venture Fund which provides Peel Ports Limited 6,412,000 8.15 venture and loan capital to small and medium sized enterprises Aviva p. l. c. 2,378,831 3.05 operating in Merseyside.
Legal & General Group Plc Companies 2,471,618 3.00 No political contributions were made in 2003 2002: Nil.
CORPORATE DONATIONS AND SOCIAL INVOLVEMENT During the year the Group made contributions to charities of EMPLOYMENT 133,913 2002: 123,056, which included a payment of The Group considers that employee involvement is essential to 117,500 2002: 102,625 into the Dock Charitable Fund, a the continuing development and success of its business and registered charity, from which donations are made to charities uses a variety of methods to inform, consult and involve its primarily within Liverpool and the surrounding area.
Donations employees including Group Savings Related Share Option are made to a wide range of charitable causes and can be Schemes and a Share Incentive Plan.
between several hundred pounds and several thousand pounds The primary communication channels for employees are within depending on the nature of the appeal.
Among donations that the Groups operating units.
The Group operates equal have been made are donations to the Clinical Science Centre opportunities in recruitment, terms and conditions of Appeal of the University Hospital Aintree in respect of which the employment, promotion and training for all employees and Company has also led the appeal amongst the business sector on encourages them to develop their full potential regardless of Merseyside, the Mersey Mission for Seafarers, Weston Spirit and gender, marital status, age, national or ethnic origin, colour, the River Mersey Inshore Rescue Service.
Other causes religious belief or sexual orientation.
supported, of which there are over 60, range between local Applications for employment by disabled persons are given full schools, community groups such as the Shaftsbury Youth Club, consideration, having regard to the capabilities of the applicant.
and health appeals such as the Woodlands Hospice and the In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is North West Cancer Research Fund.
With regard to schools, the made to provide them with employment in the Group and to Company has supported the appeal by the Diocese of Liverpool arrange any necessary re-training.
It is the policy of the Group Board of Education for the establishment of an ecumenical City that the training, career development and promotion of disabled Academy in Kensington within the inner city and has made a persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of a a bc d e a The Concorde Container Line vessel Dalhem b New cars are discharged at Sheerness c Ships prepare at Heysham Port for a night crossing to Ireland d The new animal feed warehouse operated for Arkady Feed UK Ltd e All in a row the container park at Seaforth Terminal, Liverpool with a ship in the foreground 31 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS person who does not suffer from any disability.
Appropriate the Groups key risks.
It continues to seek to minimise the risks access and facilities are also provided for disabled employees as encountered by the Group and to ensure that the Group required.
Training programmes are in place to ensure that the complies fully with all material laws and regulations.
During Group has suitably qualified individuals to undertake the various the year no fines or prosecutions were incurred for breach operational tasks within the Group.
of any safety or environmental legislation.
Since the year end Employees are invited to participate in the Group Share the Company was fined 1,000 and 1,500 in respect of Incentive Plan SIP.
During the year 447,159 ordinary 10p two related offences respectively under the Water Resources shares were acquired by employees under the SIP including Act 1991 and the Environmental Protection Act 1990 when 298,106 ordinary 10p shares as Matching shares under the rules road sweepings were deposited by a contractor into the of the SIP.
River Mersey and on land adjoining without appropriate authorisation.
Steps have been taken to prevent a recurrence.
SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT The Groups aim is to manage its activities so that any adverse The Group takes its safety, health and environmental effects on the environment are reduced to the practicable responsibilities seriously and strives to operate safe working minimum and to encourage all companies operating within its practices and eliminate accidents.
The Group operates in a Ports to implement for themselves environmental policies potentially hazardous industry, the main risks of which relate to which are in accord with that of the Group.
people involved in the loading and discharging of cargoes.
The As part of this policy the Group has adopted a Statement of Group is committed to the creation and maintenance of safe Environmental Policy and a Code of Practice for the handling of systems at work throughout its operations and recognises the dry bulk commodities.
A copy of the Groups Environmental high standards required to ensure the health, safety and Review has been posted to shareholders with this Report.
welfare of its employees and others who might be affected by The Group Environmental Management System is being its operations.
The Board is committed to ensuring compliance developed in accordance with The Pollution Prevention and with all relevant laws and industry standards.
There were no Control England and Wales Regulations 2000.
These fatalities involving Group employees in 2003.
There was one Regulations set out a pollution control regime for the purpose reportable dangerous occurrence involving an employee who of implementing the Integrated Pollution Prevention and sustained injury when a mobile crane overturned on the Control Directive Council Directive 96 61 EC and for quayside at the Marine Base in Liverpool.
regulating other potentially polluting activities not covered by The Group is a member of Port Skills and Safety Limited.
organisation has been developed to give the ports industry a Notwithstanding the specific authorisation requirements of greater input and involvement in the development of safety these Regulations, environmental impact assessments are legislation and its impact on the ports industry.
carried out for all new developments within the Groups A Safety Passport scheme introduced by the Group ensures activities which have the potential to cause pollution.
that all personnel contracted to the Group and involved in cargo The Government published the Port Marine Safety Code on operations must undergo an approved safety induction course 13th March, 2000.
The Code requires each harbour authority to prior to their commencement of work.
Liverpools scheme is produce and publish a periodic statement setting out its marine being adopted by many other ports, with the encouragement safety policy and reporting on the effectiveness of that policy.
of the Health and Safety Executive.
Related to the Code is a Guide to Good Practice which has now The Risk Management Strategy Group has responsibility for cobeen finalised and published and Standards for various port ordinating the ongoing process of identifying and evaluating occupations.
The Standards for Pilots and for Harbour Masters 32 have been finalised.
AUDITORS To implement the Code, harbour authorities are required to A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as produce an assessment of marine operations risks relating to auditors and to authorise the directors to fix the auditors their port and the means of reducing these risks.
A safety remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
management system is then to be developed from the risk assessments.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING So far as the Group is concerned, the Board is committed to The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Maritime Centre, ensuring full compliance with the Code.
The necessary risk Port of Liverpool, L21 1LA on Thursday, 13th May, 2004 assessments have been completed and, following consultation commencing at 12 noon.
The Notice of the Annual General with interested parties, the requirements of the Code have Meeting, which includes explanations of all resolutions, is been implemented in all the Groups ports.
contained in a separate circular to shareholders.
Details of proxy voting will be announced following each resolution to be voted SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY on a show of hands except in the event of a poll being called.
The Company negotiates payment arrangements and other terms and conditions with its principal suppliers: otherwise goods and Resolutions will seek approval to the following:- services are supplied under the suppliers standard terms and conditions.
The number of creditor days of the Company is 20 1 adoption of the report and accounts 2002: 19 days.
2 approval of the Remuneration Report 3 declaration of a final dividend RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 4 re-appointment of  LLP as auditors Research and development is concentrated on the development and authorisation for the directors to fix the auditors of new projects capable of generating additional revenue.
remuneration 5 re-election of Mr. P. A. Jones as a director COMPANY 6 re-election of Mr. A. I. Findlay as a director The Mersey Docks and Harbour Act 1971 reconstituted the 7 re-election of Mr. C. G. James as a director Mersey Docks and Harbour Board as a statutory company with 8 renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own effect from 1st August, 1971.
The new Company assumed all the shares up to a maximum of 14.9% of the issued share rights and obligations attaching to the former Board.
capital 9 renewal of authority for the directors to allot shares for TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS cash The movements during the year in tangible fixed assets are 10 authority relating to the Political Parties, Elections and shown in note 12 to the Accounts.
Referendums Act 2000 The movements in fixed asset investments during the year are shown in note 13 to the Accounts.
By order of the Board, In the opinion of the directors there is no significant difference W. J. Bowley between the market value and the balance sheet value of fixed Secretary assets.
16th March, 2004 ab cd e a Liverpool Pier Head and the Landing Stage set for extension to accommodate cruise ships b The largest container ship ever to berth in Ireland, at the MTL terminal in Dublin Port c Medway men take the lines of a ship arriving at Sheerness d Fresh produce arrives at Medway Ports e All lit up Twelve Princes Dock, Liverpool 33 a The footbridge across Princes Dock
