Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc BOARD OF DIRECTORS Kwek Leng Beng Tony Potter Wong Hong Ren KWEK LENG BENG, 63# DAVID THOMAS, 41 Non-Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Group Finance Director Nominations Committee David Thomas joined Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Kwek Leng Beng has been the Chairman of Millennium plc in November 1998 as Vice President of Finance and & Copthorne Hotels plc since its incorporation.
He is was appointed Group Finance Director on 7 February also Executive Chairman of City Developments Limited, 2002.
Prior to joining the Group he held senior financial the Hong Leong Group of companies in Singapore and positions with Forte plc and House of Fraser plc.
He has Chairman and Managing Director of City e-Solutions an honours degree in Hotel and Catering Management Limited.
Since 1995 he has been a member of the from the University of Strathclyde, Glasgow and Singapore - US Business Council.
In 1998 Mr Kwek was qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1988. conferred a Doctorate of Business Administration in Hospitality Management by Johnson & Wales University.
TONY POTTER, 54 Chief Operating Officer Mr Kwek was also honoured as Asian Hotelier of the Decade at the 3rd Annual Asia Pacific Hotel Industry Tony Potter joined Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Investment Conference organised by Jones Lang Lasalle in September 1999 and was appointed a director on 22 Hotels and Arthur Andersen.
For the previous three years he held the post of Chief Executive Officer at Choice Hotels Europe.
In 2000, Mr Kwek received an Honorary Degree from Prior to that he held several senior positions with Hilton Oxford Brookes University, UK and was appointed a International in the UK, Continental Europe, the USA Member of the Board of Trustees of Singapore and Canada, and was a director of that company.
He is a Fellow of the Hotel Catering International Management Association and Honorary Fellow of the JOHN WILSON, 62 Birmingham College of Food, Tourism and Creative Chief Executive Officer Studies, and was conferred an Honorary Master of Science degree from Plymouth University where he John Wilson joined Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc is a Visiting Lecturer in Hospitality Management.
He held various posts during the 25 years he was with the Ladbroke Group and Hilton International.
His last position before joining the Group WONG HONG REN, 52 was Chief Operating Officer and Senior Executive ViceInvestment Manager President of Hilton International where he was responsible for the operation of 167 hotels in 48 Wong Hong Ren joined Millennium & Copthorne countries.
Mr Wilson has been conferred a doctorate of Hotels plc as a non-executive director at the flotation Business Administration from the Robert Gordon of the Group.
He is a Non-Executive director of City University of Aberdeen in recognition of his e-Solutions Limited and the Group Investment Manager contribution to the International Hotel Industry.
for the Hong Leong Group in Singapore.
Mr Wong was He was Chairman of the British Hospitality appointed as an Executive Director of the Company in Association during 2002.
14 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 KWEK LENG JOO, 51 JOHN SCLATER CVO, 63 # Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Kwek Leng Joo joined Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc at John Sclater joined Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc at the the flotation of the Group.
He is the Managing Director of City flotation of the Group.
He is currently Chairman of Graphite Developments Limited.
An Executive Director of Hong Leong Enterprise Trust PLC, Finsbury Life Sciences Investment Trust Group Singapore, he also holds directorships in most of the PLC and of Argent Group Europe Limited.
He is Deputy listed companies within the Hong Leong Group, including City Chairman of Grosvenor Group Holdings and a Trustee of the e-Solutions Limited and Hong Leong Finance Limited.
He is also a director of James Cropper The President of Singapore Chinese Chamber of Commerce PLC and of Wates Group Limited.
He was formerly Chairman and Industry, Mr Kwek is also Vice Chairman of the of Berisford plc, Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC, Singapore Business Federation and serves in many public The Equitable Life Assurance Society, Hill Samuel Bank and civic institutions.
Limited, The Union Discount Company of London PLC, Guinness Mahon & Co Ltd and Nordic Bank Limited.
He was also formerly a Member of the Council of The Duchy KWEK LENG PECK, 47 of Lancaster, First Church Estates Commissioner and a Non-Executive Director Member of The Archbishops Council.
Kwek Leng Peck joined Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc at the flotation of the Group.
He serves as an Executive director FREDERICK BROWN, 70 retired 31 December 2003 of the Hong Leong Group.
He holds directorships on most of Non-Executive Director the listed companies within the Hong Leong Group, including City Developments Limited, City e-solutions Limited, Hong Fred Brown joined Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc at the Leong Singapore Finance Limited and Hong Leong Asia flotation of the Group.
His previous career was in the banking Limited.
He has a Diploma in Accountancy.
industry including senior appointments with Midland Bank in the UK and its offshore trust corporations and with Deutsche Bank in the Far East and Australia.
He became a NonTHE VISCOUNT THURSO, 50 # Executive director on 1 April 2000.
He is an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee SIR IDRIS PEARCE, 70 # The Viscount Thurso was appointed to the Board in May 2002.
He is a Fellow of the Hotel Catering International Management Independent Non-Executive Director Association.
He was previously founder General Manager of Cliveden and has held executive positions as Chief Executive of Sir Idris Pearce joined Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc at Granfel Holdings Limited and Chief Executive of Fitness & the flotation of the Group.
He is a past President of the Royal Leisure Holdings Limited.
He was also Non-Executive Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
He has also held a number Chairman of Walker Greenbank plc until 2002.
Prior to this he of government appointments and is a Non-Executive director was Non-Executive director of Savoy Group plc and Royal of Innisfree Limited and a governor of the Peabody Trust.
He is currently Member of Parliament for Caithness, Sutherland and Easter Ross.
CHARLES KIRKWOOD, 68 Independent Non-Executive Director CHRISTOPHER SNEATH, 70 # Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Charles Kirkwood was appointed to the Board in May 2002.
Audit Committee He was formerly managing director of Rosewood Hotels and Resorts, Asia and an Industrial Partner to Ripplewood Japan.
Christopher Sneath joined Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc He is currently the President and director of Shawnee Holding in March 1999.
He is a Chartered Accountant and, until his Inc, a private hotel owning company and a director of retirement in 1994, he was a senior partner of KPMG.
He was Pennsylvania General Energy.
He is a member of the Bar a Non-Executive director of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc of New York, Pennsylvania and the US Supreme Court.
MEMBER OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBER OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE # MEMBER OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE 15 15
