Directors report The Directors of Misys plc submit their report and the audited EMPLOYMENT POLICIES financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2003.
The Group regularly holds formal and informal briefings as well as management and sales conferences, to update and obtain PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND REVIEW OF BUSINESS feedback from employees on all aspects of the business.
Company The Groups principal activities are the development and licensing information is also sent by e-mail and posted on Intranet sites.
of a variety of software products to customers in the international Employees are also provided with information about their key banking and securities, healthcare, and UK retail financial services wealth creation benefits, such as pension and sharesave schemes.
It also conducts transaction and claims processing for US In accordance with the Groups equal opportunities policy, people physicians and UK financial advisers.
with disabilities are given the same consideration as others when The Directors Report should be read in conjunction with the they apply for jobs.
Where necessary, the Group aims to provide preceding sections on pages 1 to 31, which provide detailed these employees with facilities, equipment and training to assist information about the Groups businesses, their financial them in doing their jobs.
Depending on their skills and abilities, performance during the year and likely future developments.
they enjoy the same career prospects and scope for realising their potential as other employees.
Where employees become disabled, DIVIDENDS every effort will be made to retain them in their current role, or to The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.55p per ordinary explore possibilities for their retraining or redeployment within share.
This, together with the interim dividend of 2.12p per share the Group.
paid on 7 April 2003, makes a total dividend of 5.67p per share for The health and safety of the Groups employees is a matter of the year 2002: 4.93p.
Accordingly, it is the Groups policy to manage its The proposed final dividend, if approved at the Annual General activities so as to avoid any unnecessary or unacceptable risks and to Meeting AGM, will be paid on 6 October 2003, to shareholders have in place procedures that conform to best practice in this area.
appearing on the register at the close of business on 25 July 2003.
ALL EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP ARRANGEMENTS DIRECTORS The Company is committed to offering employees the opportunity Details of the Directors of the Company at the date of this report to enhance their personal wealth through ownership of the are given on pages 32 and 33.
As indicated in last years report, on 18 July 2002 Ivan Martin, Since 1992, the Company has operated a UK savings related share Jasper McMahon and Tom Skelton were appointed as executive option scheme approved by the Inland Revenue and open to all Directors of the Company.
At the close of the 2002 AGM on qualifying UK based employees.
The UK Scheme permits the grant 1 October 2002, Strone Macpherson and George Gray retired of options to acquire ordinary shares linked to a Save As You Earn from the Board.
Dr. Jrgen Zech was appointed a non-executive contract with a bank.
An invitation to eligible UK employees to Director of the Company with effect from 2 October 2002. participate in this scheme is normally made on an annual basis.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Sir Dominic Cadbury, In August 2002, options were granted over one million shares to George Farr, and Kevin Lomax retire from the Board and offer 1,018 employees at an exercise price of 164p per share under the themselves for re-election, and being the first AGM since his Misys 2001 Sharesave Scheme.
appointment, Dr. Jrgen Zech will retire and offer himself for Since 1996, the Company has extended the opportunity to election.
Biographical details of all Directors, including those being participate in savings related share plans to its overseas employees.
proposed for election and re-election, are given on pages 32 and 33.
Tax efficient plans are in place in the US, Ireland and France.
An Kevin Lomax has a service contract requiring one years notice international savings related plan is offered to all other overseas of termination.
As non-executive Directors, Sir Dominic Cadbury, qualifying employees in jurisdictions where this is practicable.
George Farr and Jrgen Zech each have a letter of appointment All these savings related plans operate on broadly the same terms rather than a service contract.
In the year under review, a total of 580,566 share Details of executive Directors service contracts, non-executive options were granted to 315 overseas employees under these Directors letters of appointment, emoluments and share interests international arrangements at exercise prices ranging from can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 49.
With the exception of service contracts, during the year under A phantom share option plan is offered in those jurisdictions where review and up to the date of this report no Director has had any local regulations mean that a share based plan is not appropriate.
interest in any material contract with the Company.
This is cash rather than share based, but in all other respects operates as other savings related schemes.
Ross Graham has announced his intention to retire from the Board on 31 December 2003.
Details of the options outstanding under the all employee share ownership arrangements are given in note 4 on page 59.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT In the markets in which the Group operates, effective R&D is vital to maintaining competitive advantage and securing future income streams.
The extent of the Groups commitment to R&D is outlined in the Chairmans Statement on page 14.
34 Misys Annual Report 2003 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Companys position on the environment and on charitable The 2003 AGM will take place at 12 noon on Tuesday donations is reviewed in the Corporate Social Responsibility section 30 September 2003 at 76 Portland Place, London W1B 1NT.
A separate circular sent to shareholders with this report contains the Notice of AGM and explains the business to be considered at PAYMENTS TO SUPPLIERS the meeting.
It is the Companys policy to agree terms and conditions for its business transactions with its suppliers.
The Company seeks to AUDITORS abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers whenever it is Following the conversion of our auditors  satisfied that the supplier has abided by its contractual obligations.
to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003, The trade creditors of the Company at 31 May 2003 represent  resigned on 21 January 2003 and the 18 days as a proportion of the total amount invoiced by suppliers Directors appointed its successor,  LLP, during the year.
 LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to SHARE CAPITAL re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year, are shown in note 35 on page 76.
By Order of the Board At the 2002 AGM, shareholders authorised the Directors to make market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares up to a Howard Evans maximum nominal value of 0.58m, which represented 10% Company Secretary of issued share capital.
During the year, the Directors undertook a 17 July 2003 share buyback programme as they believed that at the prevailing share price, it was in the best interests of shareholders and an appropriate use of available cash resources.
As at 17 July 2003, the Company has purchased 21,862,445 ordinary shares of 1p each 3.77% under this authority, all of which have been cancelled, at an aggregate consideration of 39,914,203 before expenses.
It is proposed that the authority be renewed at the forthcoming AGM.
At close of business on 17 July 2003, Misys plc had 559,143,966 ordinary shares in issue.
Also included in the business of the 2003 AGM are proposals to renew the Directors authorities to allot shares for cash up to prescribed limits.
Further details are given in the Notice of AGM.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS As at 17 July 2003, the Company had been notified by the following that they held an interest of more than 3% in the Companys issued share capital: Legal & General Group Plc 4.00% FMR Corp. and its direct and indirect subsidiaries and Fidelity International Limited and its direct and indirect subsidiaries 3.86% Barclays Bank through various legal entities 3.07% GOING CONCERN After making due enquiry, embracing the normal forecasting process, the Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources and committed borrowing facilities to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Consequently, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
