Directors Report as at 31 March 2003 The Directors submit their Report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2003.
Principal Activity The Groups principal activity is the provision of services to building owners and occupiers.
The principal activity of the Company is to provide management services to the Group.
Results and Dividends The Group profit on ordinary activities before tax amounted to 31.8 million 2002: 30.4 million which, after tax and minority interest, gives profits attributable to Shareholders of 19.5 million 2002: 18.6 million.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 1.1p per share which, together with the interim dividend of 0.8p per share paid on 31 March 2003, results in a total dividend of 1.9p 2002: 1.6p per share.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 30 September 2003 to those Shareholders registered on 5 September 2003.
The retained profit for the year is 13.7 million 2002: 14 million.
The review of the years operations and future developments are contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Chief Executives and Group Finance Directors Reviews.
Tangible Fixed Assets Changes in tangible fixed assets during the year are given in Note 9 to the Accounts.
Donations Charitable contributions made during the year amounted to 13,930 2002: 10,469.
As a matter of policy, no political contributions were made during the year 2002: Nil.
Share Capital Details of changes in the share capital during the year and the number of Ordinary Shares in issue at the year end are given in Note 17 to the Accounts.
Details of substantial shareholdings in the Company are given in Note 27.
Directors Details of the Board of Directors are given on page 15.
Manish J Chande and David C Ord were appointed Non-Executive Directors on 12 July 2002 and 30 October 2002 respectively.
Ruby McGregor-Smith was appointed Group Finance Director on 2 December 2002.
Paul A Kilduff resigned as a Director on 8 November 2002 and Nigel F Swiffen retired as a Non-Executive Director on 29 January 2003.
Cullum McAlpine was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2003.
David M Telling, Sir John Jennings and Colin S Acheson retire by rotation and being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
David C Ord, Ruby McGregor-Smith and Cullum McAlpine, all having been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, will retire and offer themselves for re-election.
Details of the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report.
Going Concern The Directors have formed a judgement that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Accounts.
Payment of Creditors The Groups policy is to comply with the terms of payment agreed with suppliers.
Where terms are not negotiated, the Group endeavours to adhere with the suppliers standard terms.
At 31 March 2003, the Company had 42 days purchases outstanding 2002: 32 days.
16 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Directors Report as at 31 March 2003 Employee Involvement The Group offers equal opportunities to all applicants for employment whatever their sex, race or religion.
Disabled persons are considered for employment, training, career development and promotion on the basis of their aptitudes and abilities in common with all employees, providing the disability does not make the particular employment impractical, or the employee is unable to conform to the stringent regulations which apply to the operations of the trading companies.
The Directors acknowledge the importance of good communications and employee relationships.
In each trading company, there is a direct relationship between the Managing Director and individual employees of the company.
In these conditions, complex consultative procedures are seldom required to ensure that there is an understanding of the purpose of the business and the commercial realities of success.
The Directors believe that employees should be encouraged to become Shareholders.
The Savings Related Share Option Schemes, established in 1991 and 2001, currently have a total of 1,741 contributing employees.
Auditors Deloitte & Touche have expressed their willingness to continue in office as Auditors and a Resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Deloitte & Touche have informed the Directors that they are intending to transfer their business to a limited liability partnership, incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2000, to be known as Deloitte & Touche LLP.
It is the current intention of the Directors to use the Companys statutory power to give consent to the appointment of Deloitte & Touche being treated as extending to Deloitte & Touche LLP at the appropriate time.
Company Status The Company was not a close company within the terms of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 during the year and there has been no change to this status since 31 March 2003.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on Thursday, 18 September 2003 at The Stable Block, Barley Wood, Wrington, Bristol.
The Resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
Resolution 11 renews the Directors authority to allot new Ordinary Shares, not exceeding 5% of the issued share capital, for cash without first being required to offer them to existing Shareholders in the proportion of their holdings.
Resolution 12 renews the Companys authority to purchase its own shares.
The Directors would only exercise this authority if satisfied that to do so would result in an increase in the Groups earnings per share and would be in the interests of Shareholders generally.
The Directors do not have any immediate intention of exercising such authority.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities United Kingdom Company Law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors also have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
This Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 4 July 2003 and signed on its behalf.
Corina K Ross Company Secretary MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 17
