qxd 4 6 03 1:38 pm Page 45 1, 6 Ian Meakins 46 Coutts & Co. the Investment Management Regulatory Organisation, the Ian Meakins was appointed to the Board in December 2001.
Mr Meakins Lloyds Market Board, Celltech Group, the Scottish National Trust, is currently President, European Major Markets and Global Supply of Powergen and Orange.
He is a Trustee of both Tate and Glyndebourne.
He has held a number of senior marketing and operational directorships since joining United Distillers in 1992 from strategic COMPANY SECRETARY AND GENERAL COUNSEL management consultants, The Kalchas Group, where he was a founding Philip Bramwell 46 partner.
Prior to this, he worked at Bain & Company and Procter & Philip Bramwell joined the Company from BT, where he was Gamble.
employed since April 1998, initially as Legal Manager, Group 5, 6 Paul Myners 55 Strategy and Development and then as Chief Counsel, Corporate Paul Myners was initially appointed to the Board in August 2001.
Before joining BT, he was a partner in DDV, a Mr Myners is Chairman of Aspen Insurance and the Guardian Media European specialist telecommunications consultancy rm.
Prior to Group and a non-executive Director of The Bank of New York and Marks this, he held the position of Vice President and General Counsel at and Spencer.
He is a member of the Financial Reporting Council.
He was BellSouth with responsibility for the European operations of the Air Chairman of Gartmore Investment Management until November 2001 Call and Dataserv groups and worked on cellular and mobile data and has previously held directorships at National Westminster Bank, licence bids and start-ups throughout Europe.
Key to membership of Board Committees: 1 2 3 4 5 6 Audit Committee Chairmans Committee Executive Committee Finance Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee All of the non-executive Directors are considered independent of the management of the Company.
Executive management team mmO s Executive Committee comprises Messrs. Erskine Chairman, Sohail Qadri 42 Group Director Business Development 2 Finch, Grger, McGlade and Thexton and the following senior executives: & Strategy Sohail Qadri joined O UK previously called BT Cellnet in 1993 2 Danuta Gray 44 CEO O Ireland 2 as Director of Operations and Strategy.
In 1997, Mr Qadri became Danuta Gray joined the Company from BT, where she was employed Director of Mobility, Group Strategy and Development for BT before since 1984.
Before transferring to her present role in July 2001, Ms Gray taking on his current role.
Prior to joining BT Cellnet, he was a Principal was Senior Vice President of BT Wirelesss businesses in Europe.
Prior to Consultant at Coopers & Lybrand, now .
this, she was a General Manager of BT Mobile, Leeds from 1994 to 1999, Sales Manager and Deputy General Manager of BT Global Ton aan fide Stegge 47 CEO O Netherlands 2 Communications from 1992 to 1994 and Account Director for BT Global Ton aan fide Stegge joined O Netherlands previously called Telfort 2 Communications, Commercial Sector from 1990 to 1992.
Prior to joining Telfort, Mr aan fide Stegge worked for worked in various departments as a manager and consultant for BT.
Ericsson with his most recent function being President and CEO, Ericsson Nederland BV.
He has also worked in a number of management positions Andrew Harley 42 Group HR Director at Volmac, Getronics and Computer Sciences Corporation.
He is also Andrew Harley joined the Company from BT, where he had worked Chairman of ICT Telecom, a telecoms industry association in the since August 1980.
Before being appointed as Senior Vice President, Netherlands.
He remains a member of the Executive Committee until HR, BT Wireless in February 2001, Mr Harley was Senior Vice the completion of the sale of O Netherlands.
2 President, Human Resources, BTopenworld, BTs xed internet service provider, and before that he was Human Resources Director for BT David Williams 45 Chief Technology officer Cellnet.
Mr Harley was also Human Resources Director for Telenordia David Williams joined the Company on 3 February 2003 and was in Sweden.
appointed to the Executive Committee on this date.
Mr Williams joined the Company from Cingular Wireless, where he was Vice President for Richard Poston 43 Director Corporate Communications Strategic Planning.
Prior to the merger of SBC Wireless and BellSouth Richard Poston joined the Company in September 2001.
Previously Cellular in the US to form Cingular, he ran all technological operations Mr Poston was the Director of Communications for TI Group from 1999 for SBC Wireless west region.
He joined SBC Wireless following the to 2001 and prior to this Director of Corporate Communications for acquisition of Pacic Bell Mobile Services by that company and was Racal Electronics from 1994 to 1999.
He held a number of corporate instrumental in integrating the two networks.
After working for both communications and public affairs roles in Racal Electronics.
During this Orange and Vodafone in the UK, he relocated to the US in 1996 to time, he was closely involved with the early growth of Vodafone leading direct the build-out of one of the USs first digital mobile networks for to its demerger from Racal and the formation of Camelot Group, operator Pacic Bell.
of the National Lottery, in which Racal was a major shareholder.
He started his career in the Royal Navy where he served from 1978 to 1986. www.
