qxd 4 6 03 1:38 pm Page 46 Report of the directors The Directors of mmO plc have pleasure in presenting to shareholders invest a proportion of their net fees in shares of the Company.
No 2 their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended other shares were allotted during the financial year.
The authority given at last years Annual General Meeting for the Company to purchase in the market 867,000,000 ordinary shares, Principal activity representing approximately 10 per cent of the share capital in issue mmO plc is a leading provider of mobile communications services 2 at 31 March 2002, expires at the conclusion of the 2003 AGM.
During the year under review, the Group traded through The authority was not used during the year and shareholders will be its wholly-owned subsidiaries in the UK, Germany, Ireland, the asked to give a similar authority at the forthcoming Annual General Netherlands and the Isle of Man.
The Group also operates a mobile Meeting, based on approximately 10 per cent of the Companys internet business through O Online and provides a nationwide 2 issued share capital as at 31 March 2003.
The Company has no mobile radio service designed to serve the needs of the police and current intention to utilise the authority.
other public safety organisations in England, Wales and Scotland through Airwave.
On 14 April 2003, mmO plc announced that it 2 Substantial shareholdings had agreed the sale of O Netherlands B. V. to Greeneld Capital 2 At 13 May 2003, the following notications had been received by Partners, an independent private equity and corporate finance the Company in respect of holdings of 3 per cent or more of the group, for 25 million in cash.
Companys issued share capital: The business review on pages 6 to 21 and the operating and Number of mmO plc Percentage of issued 2 Shareholder ordinary shares ordinary share capital financial review and prospects on pages 24 to 41 contain a review of the business during the year and an indication of future The Capital Group developments and form part of this report.
Companies Inc. 1,124,202,441 12.97 FMR Corp. and Fidelity Results International Limited 270,441,314 3.12 The audited financial statements are presented on pages 62 to 92.
Legal & General Investment The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the Management Limited 306,111,049 3.53 year ended 31 March 2003.
Interest of management in certain transactions Directors During and at the end of the 2003 financial year, none of the The names and biographical details of the Directors are given Companys Directors had a significant interest in any material on pages 44 and 45.
All Directors served throughout the financial transaction in relation to the Groups business.
year, with the exception of David Chance who joined the Board on 21 January 2003, and David Arculus, Rudolf Grger, Employees David McGlade and Kent Thexton who joined the Board on The Company operates a number of employee share schemes, 1 April 2003. including Group savings-related schemes and an all employee share ownership plan in the UK, which encourage regular saving and The Companys Articles of Association state that any person enable employees to acquire options over shares or shares in the appointed by the Directors shall retire at the first General Meeting Company.
for election by shareholders after their appointment.
Accordingly, David Chance, David Arculus, Rudolf Grger, David McGlade and The Company has a wide range of communication channels with Kent Thexton will retire and, being eligible, will offer themselves for employees including face-to-face meetings, team briengs, audio election at the 2003 Annual General Meeting.
In addition, the conferences and a comprehensive Company intranet that includes Articles provide that existing Directors are required to retire by a regular newsletter.
The aim of all these channels is to ensure rotation every three years.
It is the Boards intention that employees fully understand the Groups objectives and its shareholders will be given the opportunity to re-elect Directors operational and financial performance.
In addition, the Company within that timescale.
Peter Erskine, Neelie Kroes and Paul Myners conducts twice yearly attitude surveys and maintains a constructive will retire by rotation this year and are proposed for re-election at dialogue with unions, employee representative bodies and the 2003 Annual General Meeting.
Details of the Directors service contracts, emoluments and share The Company continues to be committed to the development of all interests as at the year-end can be found in the report on directors people in the organisation and actively promotes this through many remuneration on pages 51 to 60. training and development initiatives.
People are encouraged and supported in maintaining personal development plans.
The Company Share capital has invested in e-learning technology to give people better access to Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the Company a wide range of learning opportunities.
at 31 March 2003 are given in note 23 of the financial statements.
During the financial year, shares were allotted to non-executive Directors under a facility that enables these Directors to elect to 46 mmO plc 2003 2
