qxd 4 6 03 1:38 pm Page 44 Board of directors 2, 4, 5 David Varney 57 Chairman Vice President of Rogers Cantel now Rogers Wireless.
Prior to this, he David Varney was appointed to the Board in August 2001 as full time held management positions at Northern Telecom and Bell Canada.
In April 2003, he became part time Chairman as envisaged also a non-executive Director of two private Canadian companies, Avista at the time of the demerger from BT.
He has extensive experience both and Casero.
in the UK and overseas markets gained during his four years as Chief Executive officer of BG Group formerly British Gas from 1996 to 2000.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 5, 6 Prior to joining BG Group, he held a variety of senior roles in Shell Andrew Sukawaty 47 including the position of Managing Director of AB Svenska Shell in Andrew Sukawaty was initially appointed to the Board in August 2001.
Sweden and Director of Shell International with responsibility for Shells Mr Sukawaty is the non-executive Deputy Chairman of the Company and Oil Products business in Europe.
He is also Chairman of Business in senior independent Director.
He is President and Chief Executive officer of the Community.
Cable Partners Europe LLC, which invests in and operates cable television services in Europe.
He is also Chairman of Telenet.
He has considerable EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS experience in the mobile telephone industry and telecommunications 2, 3, 4 Peter Erskine 51 Chief Executive officer industries in the United States and Europe having at different times in Peter Erskine was appointed to the Board in August 2001. those periods held the ofces of Chief Executive and President of Sprint Mr Erskine is the Companys Chief Executive officer.
He joined the PCS, Chief Executive officer of NTL, Chief Operating officer of Mercury Company from BT where, since March 1993, he held a number of senior One2One, where he launched the worlds first digital Personal positions including Director of BT Mobile, President and Chief Executive Communications Services company, and he is a former Chairman of the of Concert, and, from 1998, Managing Director of BT Cellnet.
Prior to Cellular Telephone and Internet Association CTIA in the United States.
joining BT he was European Vice President of Sales and Customer Service 1, 5 David Arculus 56 for Mars and Senior Vice President Sales and Marketing for UNITEL.
David Arculus was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2003.
2, 3, 4 David Finch 47 Chief Financial officer Mr Arculus is Chairman of Severn Trent and the Better Regulation Task David Finch was initially appointed to the Board in August 2001.
Force and a non-executive Director of Barclays and Earls Court and Mr Finch is the Companys Chief Financial officer and has extensive Olympia Limited.
Mr Arculus was previously Chairman of IPC Group experience in financial management having previously held senior finance Limited and, before that, Group Managing Director of EMAP.
positions at Exel, Novar formerly Caradon and Grand Metropolitan.
1, 5 David Chance 46 In addition to Group Finance, he has direct responsibility for the Group David Chance was appointed to the Board on 21 January 2003.
Treasury and Investor Relations functions.
Mr Chance was Deputy Managing Director of BSkyB until June 1998 3 Rudolf Grger 48 CEO O Germany and is a non-executive Director of Granada, Modern Times Group and 2 Rudolf Grger was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2003.
He previously held senior marketing and business Mr Grger joined the Company in October 2001 as Chief Executive development roles at US telecoms companies, scientific Atlanta and officer of O Germany previously called Viag Interkom.
Prior to this, Grass Valley Group, and European satellite broadcaster, SES.
2 he was Managing Director of T-Systems International GmbH, a subsidiary 1, 6 Stephen Hodge 61 of Deutsche Telekom, from 1999 to 2001.
He played a key role in the Stephen Hodge was initially appointed to the Board in October 2001. acquisition of Debis Systemhaus GmbH and its integration into Deutsche Mr Hodge was Director of Finance of the Royal Dutch Shell Group, prior Telekom.
He has also worked for Siemens and was head of its German to his retirement in September 2001, where he had responsibility for all information and communication product operations.
financial and investor relations issues for the Shell Group and its parent 3 David McGlade 42 CEO O UK companies.
He has extensive knowledge of the financial management of 2 David McGlade was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2003. international companies, having worked throughout the world including Mr McGlade joined O UK previously called BT Cellnet in October 2000.
Australia, the Netherlands, Venezuela and Argentina in a variety of 2 Before being appointed as Managing Director of BT Cellnet, he was financial positions.
He is Chairman of Shell Pensions Trust Limited and Chairman and Chief Executive officer of PureMatrix, a mobile webnet a member of the Franchise Board of Lloyds of London.
software company based in Colorado.
He was also President and Chief 1, 6 Neelie Kroes 61 Executive officer of Catch TV, President West Region of Sprint PCS Neelie Kroes was initially appointed to the Board in August 2001.
Ms Kroes where he launched the first Code Division Multiple Access network is a member of the Supervisory Boards of a number of Dutch enterprises outside Asia and a Vice President of TCI.
including Crio, Lucent Technologies, Nederlandse Spoorwagen, New 3 Kent Thexton 40 Chief Data and Marketing officer Skies Satellites and Royal Nedlloyd.
She is also a member of the Supervisory Kent Thexton was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2003.
Boards of Volvo Group and Thales Group.
She is a former President of Mr Thexton joined O UK previously called BT Cellnet in 1998 as Nijenrode University in the Netherlands.
Before this, she served as Adviser 2 Marketing Director before becoming Managing Director of O Online to the European Transport Commissioner and also served two periods, 2 previously called Genie in 2000.
He was appointed Chief Data and in the Netherlands, as Cabinet Minister of Transport, Public Works and Marketing officer for the Company in July 2001.
Before joining Telecommunications and Secretary of State for Transport, Public Works BT Cellnet, he spent eight years in the Canadian mobile industry, and Telecommunications.
She was also a member of the Dutch Parliament holding the position of Chief Operating officer and Executive and a member of the Rotterdam Municipal Council.
