06 The Morgan Crucible Company plc This Safety Its a slim, lightweight plate of silicon and gains strength and hardness.
It speeds-up the deployment of troops Our Technical Ceramics division carbide.
can be machined and shaped.
Each is and equipment during combat also provides body armour as a capable of stopping three direct hits operations.
Another advantage is that one-piece breast and back plate.
Hard and strong, it stops high before it needs replacing.
we can form and machine the Put into a protective jacket or vest, velocity assault rifle bullets.
material into complex shapes, leading it can withstand high-velocity The material, developed in our Its a vital component in SAPI to new interest from anti-terrorism armour-piercing rounds.
laboratories, breaks, redirects and Small Arms Protective Insert body groups and the armed forces.
removes energy from the bullet, armour, manufactured by our Most of our specialist materials affect allowing the composite backing to customers.
Weve delivered around For vehicles, we supply precision-cut lives.
These can make the difference stop it before injurys caused.
100,000 protective ceramic plates so panel assemblies that fit around between life and death.
far, and theyre currently being used window shapes and door handles.
We make the material by bonding in Afghanistan and Iraq.
Our accurate production processes silicon carbide grain, with special means that the ceramic protection is additives and binders in a heatWe also manufacture personnel and positioned precisely where its needed intensive process known as sintering.
vehicle armour from alumina ceramic, and that weight is kept to an As the furnace temperature rises to a material up to 50% lighter than absolute minimum.
2,204C, the material shrinks, steel armour offering similar changes grain structure, loses weight, protection.
Its low weight obviously 07 The Morgan Crucible Company plc can save my life 08 The Morgan Crucible Company plc This Fire protection Its just 1 thick.
ft. weighs They find it especially suitable for Fortunately, fires in ducts wrapped Apart from saving hotel guests and just 12 ounces.
insulating ventilation ducts in hotels.
in FireMaster are stopped in their staff from fire and smoke, FireMaster Yet it can withstand temperatures These metal ducts, leading from the tracks.
The insulation material also saves space.
kitchen stoves, are fire hazards, provides two-hour fire protection low-tech methods of insulation as a fire can easily flare-up on the at 1093C.
And unlike mineral wool need a 6 gap between duct and Its a high temperature performance hob.
Fanned by the circulating air insulation, it wont shrink, become material, our flexible wrap can be fibre, a material developed in our and fuelled by grease trapped in brittle or absorb kitchen grease.
fixed directly to the duct.
Its the duct, the flames spread quickly.
brand name, aptly, is FireMaster.
Since we launched our grease-duct Sadly, not all hotels protect their To make matters worse, fires in fire protection materials in the early ventilation ducts with FireMaster.
In a fire, it wont burn, it wont ventilation ducts arent easily nineties, theyve had to withstand Some rely on insulation materials smoke and it wont fuel the flames.
And the extreme heat quite a few fires.
Every one has tested to withstand temperatures Not surprisingly, its often specified in the vent can puncture the metal, been contained within the duct.
Strange, by architects, building inspectors causing toxic smoke to escape.
considering that a ventilation and fire protection engineers.
duct fire can reach 1093C in just 10 minutes.
09 The Morgan Crucible Company plc protects me at night 10 The Morgan Crucible Company plc This Security Its a soft magnetic strip, housed in It works.
Retailers estimate that Our materials are also helping to The antennas are also lightweight plastic.
Its less than a millimetre electronic article protection systems combat car crime.
We supply the and flexible.
It works by magnetic material used in keyless fit into door handles, door trims or acousto-magnetics.
A magnetic entry and starting systems.
These rear lights without harming their Made from an amorphous alloy and strip is fixed to each article on sale.
allow vehicle doors to be opened magnetic qualities.
a semi-hard magnet, the strip can At the cash-desk, this strip must be remotely and the engine to be be found in any shopping mall or Magnetic materials are central to the deactivated.
Otherwise, an alarm will started by pressing a button.
operation of car security and store sound when a thief attempts to leave Its there to prevent shoplifting, a The driver carries a chip card that security systems.
The would-be shoplifter is crime that adds to the cost of every sends a signal to antennas built into along with our growing investment caught-out as the strip responds to item on display.
the interior and exterior of the car.
in research, means that the business electromagnetic fields sent out by These antennas contain our magnetic is secure.
Sophisticated material several amorphous metal detection electronics distinguish the tapes bundled up into a package and strip from other magnetic objects.
wound round with enamelled copper wire.
Along with their housing, these metal tapes produce an element just a few millimetres thick.
11 The Morgan Crucible Company plc combats crime 12 The Morgan Crucible Company plc These Medical Its made from metal components Pacemakers are generally used to repeatable manufacturing process.
Research in the USA suggests and high purity alumina ceramic.
manage a heartbeat thats too slow or This flexibility, along with the that pacemakers provide a more Biocompatible and corrosionirregular, caused by disorders that availability of added value assemblies, cost-effective treatment for resistant, it works well in extreme disrupt the hearts normal electrical produces components to our heart problems than medication.
In these circumstances, our customers exact specification at a Our research in ceramic to metal implant feed-throughs perform a vital lower total cost.
assemblies suggests that we stand to buried deep inside the human role.
Naturally, reliability is rather gain a growing share of this market.
Not surprisingly, space is at a important.
Produced in an premium in pacemaker applications.
Our ceramic to metal seal assembly ISO9001-2000 certified facility, A saving of half a millimetre can technology goes into heart our pacemaker components feature improve performance.
We make the implant robust designs.
smaller feedthroughs by taking feed-throughs that carry leads from As a world leader in the manufacture advantage of our ceramics superior the engine-room of the pacemaker of ceramic to metal assemblies, were electrical properties.
Our skills in to the heart.
These insulated wire often asked to custom-build application engineering and leads carry tiny electrical impulses to pacemaker parts.
Our design experience solving complex problems the heart and relay information about flexibility allows for cost competitive also lowers costs and heightens the hearts electrical activity back to manufacturing through a consistent quality.
13 The Morgan Crucible Company plc keep me ticking 14 The Morgan Crucible Company plc This Transportation Its a strip of inert carbon, about one No wonder many of the worlds As trains go faster, the advantages of Alongside plain hard carbon, weve metre long.
Moving at speeds of up railways are switching to carbon.
carbon as a pick-up material gain also brought in metallised carbon to 300kph, it transfers electricity from And its hardly surprising that momentum.
Our collector strips can with greater mechanical strength to the overhead wire to the locomotive.
most new electrified lines are operate at speeds of 240kph and handle high voltage systems.
They cause virtually no Why carbon?
It seems a rather basic Like the passengers on the trains and electrical interference to phone and material to perform such a Our carbon strips collect the trams we power, our R&D people radio signals.
Theyre also quiet and technological task.
In fact, carbon has electricity that powers trains around hate to stand still.
Its nonthe globe with major contracts in abrasive, has low electrical resistance America, Netherlands, UK and Of course, theres always scope for and low mechanical friction.
We supply collector strips innovation.
Were expanding the wearing rates, it lasts a long time.
to the entire Hong Kong transport already huge global market for Its readily available.
Carbon does not system, including the new airport carbon collector strips by launching melt, which means that it will not Express, MTR, KCR and the historic technically-advanced versions.
weld or damage the conductor.
Were working with the Over the years weve developed our All these advantages result in lower Chinese railways and the Delhi Metro.
carbon strips, increasing their current total running costs than alternative In Europe, were on top of Eurostar.
capacity and improving their base collector materials.
15 The Morgan Crucible Company plc keeps me on track
