20 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Magnetics Magnetics All our activities benefit from The substantial improvement of Inductive components outstanding materials know-how and operating profit before goodwill Inductive components contribute The continuing turnover for the decades of experience in and around amortisation and operating about 20% to the Magnetics year was 172.1 million 2002: magnetic technology.
As long ago as exceptionals is a result of our turnover.
Based on toroidal magnetic 163.5 million with an 1923, we were the first company to restructuring programme and the cores, mainly from our own operating profit before goodwill launch vacuum melting of alloys on continuing efforts to reduce costs by production, a vast range of amortisation and operating an industrial scale thus the trading moving labour to low cost countries.
exceptionals of 3.3 million name VACUUMSCHMELZE.
Today Examples are: current transformers 2002: loss 4.3 million.
Products and applications there are over 3,000 people working for electronic energy meters that The Magnetics division is a leading for the division in production sites Rare Earth Magnets offer superior performance, current authority in the world market for and field sales offices in more than Our rare earth magnets and systems sensors used in automotive battery magnetic technology.
business contributes approximately energy management systems in manufacture and market special- 30% to the Magnetics turnover.
German premium cars which monitor 2003 Review purpose magnetic materials and the The main application of Neodymium the battery power status, and xDSL products derived from them.
A broad In 2003 the Magnetics division Iron Boron magnets is within electric DSL Digital Subscriber Loop selection of high-grade semi-finished executed an extensive restructuring motors.
For example compact splitters that enable high-speed materials, parts, components and programme.
It comprised the sale of elevator drives and servo motors in internet access.
systems are used in applications in the Superconductor business, the machine tool drives.
The increasing Soft magnetic materials and parts virtually every field of electronics and disposal of the Schrobenhausen number of sensors in automobiles This product group contributes electrical engineering.
That makes us plant, the closure of our plant in offers a variety of opportunities for approximately 30% to the Magnetics one of the few globally operating Elizabethtown, USA, as well as rare earth magnets.
The products extend from corporations able to offer its the refocusing of our permanent ELK sensor feature a magnet soft-magnetic materials in the form customers a broad spectrum of magnet business on non disc system assembly from Magnetics.
of strips, rods and wires to physical magnetic technology from a single drive applications and further Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI alloys.
In further production steps, source: from magnetically soft concentration of labour-intensive systems with Neodymium Iron Boron we make yokes and anchors for relays products to the worlds most manufacturing processes in low magnets in hospitals provide perfect in GFCIs Ground Fault Current powerful permanent magnets.
images of bones and soft body Interrupter that could save human parts completely free of X-rays.
The Magnetics core business, after lives, and stamped parts for magnetic Samarium Cobalt magnets are used the disposals and restructuring, grew valves in diesel and gasoline direct in chemical pumps to safely move about 4% compared to the prior year, injection systems.
despite a heavy impact due to exchange rates.
1 21 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Magnetics 1 An ingot being hot rolled at approximately 1200C.
2 An automated core testing machine.
3 A preparation step for the automatic core coating process.
Amorphous and Outlook nanocrystalline materials In 2004 the Magnetics core An example of the use of these businesses are expected to see materials is the amorphous strip further growth in innovative market used in labels of electronic article sectors such as energy conversion, surveillance systems that reliably automotive, installation and set off alarms in retail shops, or for automation.
The electronic article our own toroidal core production.
surveillance and communication Nanocrystalline materials complement application markets are expected to this broad range offering exciting remain stable.
Throughout 2004, the new possibilities with their superior division will concentrate on focusing magnetic properties.
A new on its core businesses.
This, combined generation of brazing alloys for with its efforts to reduce costs, example in charge air coolers open should put the division in a strong new markets for us.
Toroidal strip wound cores This product group contributes approximately 10% turnover to the Magnetics division.
The cores are made of nickel-iron, nanocrystalline and amorphous materials.
The applications cover GFCIs Ground Fault Current Interrupter, SMPS Switched Mode Power Supplies in PCs and our own components production.
