18 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Ceramics 1 Technical Ceramics In communications, the growth in In the area of the high temperature Our Electro Ceramic business applications for wireless and fibre Solid Oxide Fuel Cell SOFC design, develops and manufactures The continuing turnover for optics has placed demands on our broad base of ceramic and piezoelectric ceramic components, the year was 132.5 million our business for unique material metallising technologies are enabling ultrasonic transducers and sensor 2002: 135.7 million solutions.
Satellite uplinks require the sub-system development of these assemblies, actuators, radio frequency and operating profit before powerful microwave signal generation complex geometries and materials.
and high voltage capacitors and goodwill amortisation and devices such as travelling wave microwave filters.
Our actuators, operating exceptionals was 2003 saw difficult market conditions tubes constructed with our ceramic transducers and sensors provide an 1.4 million 2002: 3.2 million.
continue, particularly in the and ceramic metal components.
electromechanical interface between aerospace, semiconductor and Our Advanced Ceramics business, Leading edge applications in fibre electronic systems and the real world.
using its extensive range of leading optic communications require Applications include hard disk drives edge oxide and non-oxide ceramic diamond heat spreaders, signal The major restructuring of our for computers, sonar systems, medical materials, produces products used generation and amplification devices business in Europe was completed imaging, ultrasonic scalpels and in a range of applications including and components for high quality with the closure of a site in Germany parking sensors for cars.
These diamond ceramic and the successful transfer of Our advanced RF capacitors are tubes, aerospace, healthcare and metal products are supplied by business to Hungary and the used in applications such as MRI, and microelectronics.
high power oscillator circuits in radio In healthcare, surgically implanted Our ceramic materials, braze Improved performance in 2004 transmitters, lasers, semiconductor devices such as heart pacemakers, alloys and assemblies are essential is expected to come from these processing and electrostatic spraying defibrillators and cochlear implants building block products used in the cost reductions and little help is equipment.
Our microwave dielectric require materials that are hermetic construction of sensing devices that anticipated from our markets.
components are used in cellular and biocompatible.
We provide monitor aero engine performance for phone base stations.
the ceramic materials for these fuel efficiency and safety.
We also Exciting new opportunities have applications as well as hermetic supply blade coatings, braze alloys been secured in the hard disk drive, feed-through assemblies, braze and repair materials for the defence, automotive and medical alloys and highly engineered manufacture of new gas turbine industries.
In particular, a production coatings for radio frequency engines and the refurbishment capability has been established for shielding.
More and more surgically of engines already in service.
the production of specialist materials implanted hip joints are made from The experience gained in supplying required for the next generation our ceramics.
Blood analysis and these materials to the aero medical imaging and sonar systems.
separation equipment use valves engine industry has also positioned made from advanced ceramics.
us to supply materials for gas turbine engines in the power generation industry.
19 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Ceramics 1 The preparation of raw materials entering the melting furnace at a Thermal Ceramics plant.
2 Crucibles undergoing the final painting operation prior to shipment to customers.
3 Manufacture of ceramic slider valves used in heavy goods vehicles cabin levelling devices.
Insulating Ceramics Thermal continues to refine its The decline in the sales of the Despite the challenging market portfolio and meet the challenges Crucible business over recent years conditions, gross margins were The continuing turnover for of significant migration of business was arrested in 2003 in most markets, increased.
Together with the benefits the year was 258.3 million from the West to the East.
although the Americas continued of our rationalisation programme, 2002: 256.8 million and the Investment in this area, particularly to experience particularly difficult this enabled the business to operating profit before goodwill China, is focused on the core product economic conditions.
Key Asian increase operating profit before amortisation and operating areas of fibre and insulating fire markets showed some improvement goodwill amortisation and operating exceptionals was 17.2 million bricks IFBs, where Thermal has in the year, with Japan returning to exceptionals significantly compared 2002: 13.9 million.
brought its new spun fibre plant up growth, and China continuing to with the previous year, and also Thermal Ceramics provides insulating to full capacity in Shanghai, and grow and to show the potential it has achieve strong cash generation.
products and solutions around the developed its IFB business with a to dominate the region.
Confidence levels in the foundry world from over 26 globally based joint venture in Yixing.
The rationalisation of our global business can traditionally be gauged manufacturing sites.
The growth in Europe and North manufacturing operations was largely by our sales of new furnace Sales for the year showed strong America of Thermals patented completed in 2002.
These were flat during growth from Asian countries, Superwool low bio-persistent fibres, remaining core plants were the year, as confidence remained balancing the weak performance to meet the environmental needs strengthened, with new technology subdued, and our customers of those in the main European of customers, continues and new introduced to enhance product continued to be cautious about and North American zones.
markets for this environmentally performance, improve process future capital investment.
In the Strong performance of the friendly fibre are opening up in Asia.
flexibility, and create future growth latter part of the year, however, petrochemical markets was also opportunities.
Nonetheless, as enquiries and orders increased, The strategy for Thermal Ceramics evident.
This produced an overall markets remained soft, the focus on indicating some improvement in is now moving into the phase of flat sales line versus 2002 but cost reduction was also maintained, confidence and in future prospects.
developing the businesses full continued focus on cost reductions with additional fixed costs removed potential, with carefully focused The rationalised Crucible business is and operational improvements lead as our in-house distribution investments aligned to growth now well positioned to deliver strong to a satisfactory 23.7% improvement operations were streamlined.
The new Thermal Ceramics profit growth in a recovering market.
on 2002 operating profit before research and development unit goodwill amortisation and operating commissioned in the last quarter exceptionals.
of 2003 is a key component of this phase.
