DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors are pleased to present their Annual Report and the EMPLOYMENT POLICIES audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003.
The Group strives to meet its business objectives by motivating and encouraging its employees to be responsive to the needs of its PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES customers and continually improve operational performance.
The The principal activity of the Group is the provision of mass passenger Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to transport services.
This applies to appropriate training, career development and promotion for all employees, REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS regardless of physical ability, gender, sexual orientation, religion or ethnic origin.
A review of the Groups activities, the principal events during the year and the future development of the Group is given in the Chairmans Full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment statement, the Chief Executives statement, the Review of operations received from disabled persons, according to their skills and and the Finance Directors report set out on pages 14 to 33. capabilities.
The services of any existing employee disabled during their period of employment are retained wherever possible.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The profit on ordinary activities before tax for the year ended EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT 31 December 2003 was 54.5m 2002: 85.6m loss and a retained The Group encourages employee involvement in its affairs.
Subsidiary profit of 7.9m 2002: 137.7m loss was transferred to reserves.
companies produce a range of internal newsletters and circulars which keep employees abreast of developments.
In addition, the The Directors recommend a final net dividend of 17.5p per share Group-wide express magazine is aimed at keeping employees in touch which, together with the interim net dividend of 8.5p per share paid with the worldwide activities of the Group.
Senior management on 17 October 2003, gives a total net dividend for the year of 26.0p within the Group meet regularly to review strategic developments per share 2002: 24.5p.
If approved by shareholders, the final and matters of current concern.
Employees are encouraged to discuss dividend will be paid on 7 May 2004 to shareholders on the register matters of interest to them and subjects affecting day-to-day at 13 April 2004. operations with management.
Dialogue takes place regularly with trade unions and other employee representatives on a wide range of DIRECTORS issues.
Employees are able to share in the Groups results through a The Directors of the Company who served during the year were: number of employee share schemes.
Michael Davies For the first time, an externally conducted Employee Survey was Phil White carried out throughout the Groups UK companies in October 2003.
Larry Durham appointed 4 March 2003 The survey gave an opportunity to understand what employees Barry Gibson think and to learn from their working experiences.
The results of the Sue Lyons survey will form the basis of action plans to address issues raised Ray OToole within each business.
David Ross Tim Stevenson ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Adam Walker appointed 4 March 2003 Details of the Groups environment policy and environmental initiatives are to be found in the separate Corporate Responsibility Michael Davies will retire at the 2004 Annual General Meeting as Report issued with the Annual Report.
Chairman and as a director of the Company after 11 years service.
David Ross and Phil White will retire by rotation at the Annual CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for reelection.
Larry Durham resigned as a Director of the Company on 25 Charitable donations made during the year totalled 210,000.
Groups policy not to make political contributions and accordingly none were made in the year.
The names and brief biographies of the current Directors appear on pages 34 and 35.
Details of the remuneration of the Directors, their interests in shares of the Company and service contracts are contained in the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 43 to 47.
36 DIRECTORS REPORT CREDITORS PAYMENT POLICY AND PRACTICE It is the Companys policy to agree terms of payment prior to commencing trade with any supplier and to abide by those terms based on the timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
Trade creditor days of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2003 were 27 days 2002: 35 days, based on the ratio of Company trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS The Company has been notified of the following holders of 3% or more of its issued share capital for the purpose of Section 198 of the Companies Act 1985, as at 24 February 2004: Standard Life Investments Limited 6,881,176 5.028% Barclays Bank PLC 6,849,160 5.010% WMT Employees Shareholding Trustees Limited 6,660,378 4.960% Legal & General Group Plc 5,520,755 4.030% Percentages as at date of notification ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting will be held on 5 May 2004.
Shareholders will be asked to approve three items of special business, details of which are given in the Notice of Meeting accompanying this report.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES The Company was granted authority at the Annual General Meeting in 2003 to purchase its own shares up to an aggregate value of 10% of the issued nominal capital.
This authority expires at this years Annual General Meeting and a resolution will be proposed for its renewal.
GOING CONCERN It should be recognised that any consideration of the foreseeable future involves making a judgement, at a particular point in time, about future events which are inherently uncertain.
Nevertheless, at the time of preparation of these accounts and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By order of the Board Tony McDonald Secretary 26 February 2004 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise the THE BOARD AND ITS PRINCIPAL COMMITTEES Committee.
The Committee will ensure that contractual terms on Details of the Board and its principal committees are set out below.
termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Attendance at meetings of individual directors is shown next to the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate Directors name.
All of the Committees are authorised to obtain legal loss is, where appropriate, fully recognised.
or other professional advice as necessary, to secure the attendance of external advisers at its meetings and to seek information required Audit Committee from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties.
The full terms of reference of the committees are available on the Tim Stevenson Chairman 3 Companys website at www.
Barry Gibson 2 David Ross 3 The current committee structure shown below was put in place in March 2003 following a review by the Board after publication of the Number of meetings during the year:Three Higgs review in January 2003.
Prior to this date members of these committees were Michael Davies, Barry Gibson, Sue Lyons, David Principal Duties: The Committee oversees the process for selecting Ross and Tim Stevenson.
the external auditor, assesses the continuing independence of the external auditor and recommends approval of the audit fee to the Board.
It will ensure that provision of non audit services does not The Board of Directors impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
It will Michael Davies Chairman 15 discuss with the external auditor the nature and scope of the audit Barry Gibson Non Executive Director 14 and any issues or concerns arising from the audit process.
The Sue Lyons Non Executive Director 14 Committee reviews the internal audit programme, considers major David Ross Non Executive Director 13 findings of the internal audit investigations and reviews managements Tim Stevenson Senior Independent Director 15 and the internal auditors reports on the systems of internal control, Phil White Chief Executive 15 financial reporting and risk management.
The Committee reviews the Larry Durham Chief Executive Officer, NEC 12 half-year and annual financial statements.
Ray OToole Chief Operating Officer 15 Adam Walker Finance Director 13 Nomination Committee Company Secretary:Tony McDonald also acts as Secretary to the David Ross Chairman 1 Board Committees Michael Davies 1 Sue Lyons 1 Number of meetings during the year: Fifteen Members from January 2004 Larry Durham and Adam Walker joined the Board on 4 March Sue Lyons Chairman 2003.
Larry Durham resigned as a Director of the Company on Michael Davies 25 February 2004.
Tim Stevenson Number of meetings during the year: One Schedule of matters reserved for the Boards Attention: There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards Principal Duties: The Committee is responsible for identifying and attention including the approval of Group strategy and policies, major nominating for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board business acquisitions or disposals, major capital projects, Group vacancies as and when they arise.
It will give full consideration to budgets and material contracts entered into other than in the normal succession planning, and keep under review the leadership needs of course of business.
the organisation, both executive and non executive.
The Committee will review annually the time required from a Non Executive Director Remuneration Committee and use performance evaluation to assess whether the Non Barry Gibson Chairman 4 Executive is spending enough time to fulfil their duties.
Sue Lyons 4 Tim Stevenson 4 Safety Committee Sue Lyons Chairman 4 Number of meetings during the year: Four Michael Davies 4 Barry Gibson 3 Principal Duties: The Committee is responsible for determining broad David Ross 3 policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors including the Tim Stevenson 4 Chief Executive, the divisional Chief Executives, the Chairman of the Company and the Company Secretary.
Within the terms of the Number of meetings during the year: Four agreed policy the Committee will determine the total individual remuneration package of each Executive Director including, where Principal Duties: The Safety Committee reviews the Groups safety appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments, pension arrangements and practices, procedures and safety record.
The Committee will select, appoint and set the terms 38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board supports the highest standards of corporate governance Principal responsibilities of the Chairman include: and ethical practices within its businesses.
The review of the role and chairing and managing the business of the Board: effectiveness of non executive directors by Derek Higgs and a review together with the Chief Executive, leading the Board in of the responsibilities of audit committees by Sir Robert Smith led to developing the strategy of the business and ensuring this is the publication in July 2003 of the revised Combined Code on effectively implemented by the Executive management team: Corporate Governance the Revised Code by the Financial ensuring that there is effective dialogue with investors concerning Reporting Council.
The Financial Services Authority will replace the mutual understanding of objectives: existing Code of Best Practice on corporate governance the Existing in conjunction with the Nomination Committee, taking Code with the Revised Code which will be effective for reporting responsibility for the composition and replenishment of the years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
Following publication Board: and of the Revised Code the Board has reviewed its corporate periodically reviewing with the Board its working practices and governance practices and confirms that it complies with the majority performance.
of the Revised Code provisions.
The Board will continue to review and develop its corporate governance practices during the Principal responsibilities of the Chief Executive include: forthcoming year.
the development and implementation of management strategy: the day to day management of the Group: The statement of compliance below is in relation to the Existing managing the executive management team: and Code of Best Practice which is applicable for the Companys fostering relationships with key stakeholders.
However the Board has widened its reporting to cover additional aspects included in the Revised Code provisions in advance of the reporting requirement.
Tim Stevenson is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board considers all the Non Executive Directors, including the Chairman, STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE OF BEST Michael Davies, to be independent.
Michael Davies has been PRACTICE Chairman since 1992, serving alongside a number of Chief Executives and Executive Directors during that time.
The Board considers that The Board has reviewed the Groups compliance with the Existing the Chairman remains independent of management and free from Code of Best Practice as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code any business or other relationship which could materially interfere annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
In the with the exercise of his judgement.
All the Non Executive Directors opinion of the Directors the Group has complied with the Existing bring independent judgement and considerable knowledge and Code throughout the year.
Non Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys share option or bonus schemes APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES OF GOOD GOVERNANCE and their service is non-pensionable.
Short biographies of the Directors are to be found on page 34.
The Board of Directors, Chairman and Chief Executive The Directors believe it is essential for the Group to be led and The Board meets at least eight times during the year.
There is a controlled by an effective Board that provides entrepreneurial formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision, the leadership within a framework of sound controls.
The Board is principal terms of which are shown on page 38 together with the responsible for setting the Groups strategic aims, its values and attendance record of the Directors.
During 2003 the Chairman met standards and ensuring the necessary financial and human resources with the Non Executive Directors without the Executive Directors are in place to achieve its goals.
present to allow informal discussion on any issues of concern.
Going forward the Senior Independent Director will chair a meeting of the During the year the Board consisted of four Executive and five Non Non Executive Directors without the Chairman present to appraise Executive Directors.
The offices of Chairman and Chief Executive are the Chairmans performance.
held separately and the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive is shown below.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups businesses, implementation of its strategy, policies and budgets and its financial performance.
Executive management meetings, involving the Executive Directors and senior management are held weekly to discuss current issues.
The Company purchases liability insurance to cover the Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT The Board has established a number of committees with defined Reports from the Executive Directors, which include in-depth financial terms of reference and receives reports of their proceedings.
The information, are circulated to Board members prior to every Board principal committees are the Remuneration Committee, the meeting.
Senior management and advisers give presentations to the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Safety Board on significant matters during the year as appropriate.
The members of each committee, attendance and main the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretary is responsible duties are shown on page 38. for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations are complied with and advises the Board on APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD governance matters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the appointment and The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
There is a procedure in place for any Director to take Committee will prepare a description of the role and requirements independent professional advice where considered necessary.
for any particular appointment based on its evaluation of the Board as a whole.
On appointment, Directors are offered an appropriate training course and are thereafter encouraged to keep abreast of matters affecting The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non Executive their duties as a Director and to attend training courses relevant to Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered their role.
The induction process for new Directors was reviewed office during normal business hours and at the Annual General during the year and a more formal procedure established.
The Meeting of the Company.
The Non Executive Directors disclose to induction process will in future comprise: the Board their other significant commitments.
a series of meetings with Directors and senior management External advisers are appointed when recruiting Board members: they tailored to the individuals needs, to include site visits and use as a basis for their search a description of the role and capabilities meetings with the divisional Chief Executives: required for a particular appointment proposed by the Nomination an opportunity, if requested by the individual or shareholders, for Committee.
the Director to meet with major shareholders fund managers: an appropriate Directors training course: and THE WORK OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE provision of key information on Group policies and procedures.
Before making a recommendation for an appointment to the Board the Nomination Committee will: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION During the year the procedure for evaluation of the Board, its prepare a job specification and a description of the capabilities committees and individual Directors was reviewed.
The resulting required for a particular post: performance evaluation process will be carried out in the consider the current composition of the Board and mix of skills forthcoming year.
and experience: and where appropriate, and in particular where a vacancy for a Non RE-ELECTION Executive Director arises, use an external search consultancy and or open advertising.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association all Directors submit themselves for election at the Annual General An example of the recruitment process used during the year was Meeting following their appointment and thereafter by rotation at that of the recruitment of a new Finance Director early in 2003. least once every three years.
Non Executive Directors are appointed External consultants and advertising were used for the appointment for specific terms, subject to re-election.
Non Executive Directors will together with consideration of a number of internal candidates.
only be put forward for re-election if, following performance Following selection of a short list of potential candidates and a evaluation, the Board believes the Directors performance continues rigorous interview process an internal candidate was put to the to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board was pleased to approve the appointment of Adam Walker who had the qualities and skills REMUNERATION AND SERVICE CONTRACTS necessary for the role.
The report on Directors remuneration including details of remuneration policy and service contracts is set out on pages 43 to 47.
40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE All subsidiaries are required formally to identify and assess the key ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT risks they face, reviewing them on a regular basis through various Statements of the respective responsibilities of the Directors and management forums and reporting on an annual basis.
Each risk is Auditors are set out on pages 48 and 49. assessed based on its likely impact on shareholders investments and the Companys assets and its probability of occurrence.
The risk Internal Control mitigation activities in place are then applied to the initial rating to The Company has established procedures to ensure that the Board produce a final risk categorisation which is reported up through the reviews the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls, management chain.
including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls as required by the internal control provisions of the Based on this and the risk analysis performed, local management Combined Code.
provide an overall conclusion on whether appropriate controls are in place and operating effectively, and confirm that action is being, or has The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, been, taken to eliminate any weaknesses identified during the period.
evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
This system was in place for the year under review and up to the date of This process continues to evolve along with the business to provide approval of this Annual Report, and is reviewed regularly by the stakeholders with the best assurance that the Group is aware of and Board of Directors.
Such a system is designed to manage, rather than managing the key risks highlighted in the risk management reports.
to eliminate, the risks inherent in achieving the Groups business objectives and can therefore provide only reasonable and not The internal control system is monitored and supported by an absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The outsourced internal audit function.
The internal audit function reports procedures in place accord with the Guidance for Directors on the to management and the Audit Committee on the Groups financial Combined Code published by the Institute of Chartered Accountants and operational controls and reviews the extent to which its in England and Wales.
The Audit Committee, in addition to its other responsibilities, reviews a summary of the The Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate reports of the internal audit function on the internal controls systems strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues and has put in of the Group.
The Audit Committee provides the Board with an place an organisational structure with formally defined lines of independent assessment of the Groups financial position, accounting responsibility, delegated authorities and clear operating processes.
In particular, there are clear procedures for: Audit Committee and Auditors The members of the Audit Committee, attendance and main duties financial reporting, within comprehensive financial planning and are shown on page 38. accounting frameworks: capital investment, with detailed appraisal and authorisation: THE WORK OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE identification, assessment, quantification and management of risk: The Committee meets at least three times a year and receives and papers for consideration in advance of the meeting.
The papers health and safety, to review and address issues.
reflect the agenda prepared by the Secretary in conjunction with the Committee Chairman.
There are a number of standing items The Board is responsible for, and has reviewed the effectiveness of, considered during the year such as consideration of the internal and the Groups system of internal control in operation during the year external audit reports, review of the preliminary and interim covered by this report.
The systems are designed to safeguard both announcements, and review of the Annual Report and Accounts.
shareholders investments and the assets of the Group.
This year its Other items that have been considered and discussed during the year review comprised a number of specific internal control audits at many include, amongst other matters, a review of risk management of the Groups operating companies.
In addition, the Board received processes, consideration of major risks identified by this process, regular reports from the management of risks applicable to their consideration of the external auditors fees and split between audit areas of business.
and non audit work, agreement to prepare proposals to appraise the services provided by the external auditors and proposals to assess In order to assist the Board in this process each division and business the effectiveness of the Committee.
At the invitation of the produces an Internal Control Criteria document and Key Risk Matrix Committee, and as appropriate to the matters under discussion, which are cascaded through management levels and the Audit meetings may be attended by the Executive Directors and internal Committee before being presented to the Board.
This process is and external auditors.
Full minutes are kept by the Secretary of the reviewed on a regular basis to ensure the validity and relevance of matters considered and decisions taken by the Committee.
Outside the key risks reported and presented to the Board on a twice yearly of the meeting process the Committee Chairman has regular contact basis, unless exceptional issues arise.
The review covers strategic, with the Executive Directors, other committee members and the financial, compliance and risk management controls.
These procedures auditors on a variety of topics.
are mandated and designed to manage the risk in order to ensure that the operations achieve their business objectives.
41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Audit Committee assesses and reviews on a regular basis the independence of the external auditors.
Nearly all non audit work undertaken by the external auditors during the year relates to tax advisory services which the Committee believes would be impractical and costly to provide through another party.
Any significant non audit work proposed to be undertaken by the external auditors, apart from tax advisory services, must be approved by the Committee in advance.
The Committee is reviewing the arrangements for whistle blowing by employees to ensure that there is a consistent policy across the Group to enable employees to voice concerns particularly in respect of possible financial reporting improprieties.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders The Company maintains a regular dialogue with its institutional shareholders and fund managers through a variety of meetings and presentations throughout the year.
Presentations are given by the Executive Directors following the full year and half year results to institutional investors, analysts and brokers which the Non Executive Directors may attend.
In addition, the Companys brokers provide confidential feedback to the Company on the views of the major institutions following the interim and preliminary results.
Biennially the Board commissions an independent review to ascertain the views of the Companys major investors on its financial performance and management.
The next review will be undertaken in 2004.
During the year, written responses are given to correspondence received from shareholders and all shareholders receive copies of the Interim Report and the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Company has introduced an electronic communications facility to enable shareholders to receive documentation such as the Annual Report and Accounts electronically and also to cast their vote by proxy electronically.
com, houses wide ranging information about the Group, including the Preliminary and Interim announcements, Annual Report and Accounts, Interim Report, press releases, share price data and links to subsidiary company websites.
This site was upgraded in February 2004 to meet the requirements of the Disability Discrimination Act.
The Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for all shareholders to question the Chairman and Directors on a variety of topics, and information is provided at the meeting on different aspects of the Groups activities.
All of the Companys directors are present at the Annual General Meeting.
Proxy votes, including the number of abstentions, are displayed on the resolutions following the result on a show of hands.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
