REVIEW OF OPERATIONS TRAINS WE OPERATE C2C, CENTRAL TRAINS, GATWICK EXPRESS, MIDLAND MAINLINE, SCOTRAIL, SILVERLINK, WAGN INCLUDING THE STANSTED EXPRESS AND THE WESSEX TRAINS FRANCHISES.
THE DIVISION CURRENTLY EMPLOYS 12,800 PEOPLE.
Turnover for the year increased by 10% to 1,702.4 million LONDON AND THE SOUTH EAST Turnover for the period 2002: 1,553.2 million.
Normalised operating profit was was 555.9 million 2002: 535.7 million.
This reduction was due to profit was 20.0 million 2002: 21.0 million.
Patronage growth increased headcount to improve operational performance, on these services was very encouraging at 7%, mainly from offincreased pensions and insurance costs as well as a subsidy peak travel.
reduction for our London and South East operations.
Both Wagn and c2c performed well with Stansted Express We are pleased that patronage across the division was up 5% achieving strong patronage growth of 17%, reflecting the on last year with particularly strong growth across the long growth of the airport.
We commenced the introduction of distance and London and South East companies.
driver only operations at c2c towards the end of the year.
Patronage on Gatwick Express is improving but this franchise Operational performance has improved over the past twelve continues to be impacted by the relocation of international months through closer working relationships with Network flights from Gatwick airport.
We believe a more hands-on approach through Joint Boards and a further investment in driver resources will deliver LONG DISTANCE Turnover for the year increased to improvements.
Within our own operations, we have introduced 207.0 million 2002: 156.1 million with an operating profit performance improvement plans designed to enhance of 12.4 million 2002: 8.2 million.
This increase reflected the performance control at all levels within the TOCs.
At Midland commencement of operations by Midland Mainline MML of Mainline and Central Trains we have brought the operations a new London to Manchester service, which started in May and engineering functions closer together through a 2003 at the request of the SRA and additional compensation reorganisation of these businesses.
received as a result of engineering work.
Passenger numbers on this service have been encouraging with many passengers We have strengthened our Trains division management teams transferring to the route following the West Coast Main Line over the past six months with a number of senior appointments blockade throughout the summer months.
Overall there was a from within the industry including the appointment of a new fleet 6% increase in patronage.
engineering director and managing directors for the Midland Mainline and the Greater Anglia franchises.
In February 2004 we appointed David Franks as the Chief Executive of the division.
20 FOCUSING ON WORKING WITH INVESTING IN PERFORMANCE PARTNERS TO OUR PEOPLE IMPROVE RELIABILITY BUILDING A MONITORING WINNING THE SERVICE FIT FOR CUSTOMER GREATER THE 21ST SATISFACTION ANGLIA CENTURY FRANCHISE We are pleased that patronage across the division was up 5% on last year with strong growth across the long distance and London and South East companies.
We continue to undertake the refurbishment of MMLs 15 high ScotRails patronage grew by 7%.
Operational performance has speed trains.
With half of the fleet already completed, it is improved and recent passenger research has shown marked anticipated that the whole fleet will be finished by Spring 2004. improvements in customer satisfaction.
This month will see the The first of the new Meridian trains is expected to come into delivery of 21 new turbostar trains.
At the request of the SRA operation later this year.
and the Scottish Executive, we are extending our existing franchise by seven months to October 2004 to assist with the MMLs performance continues to be impacted by the Channel refranchising process.
Tunnel Rail Link development work at St Pancras.
During the course of this year, its operations will be restricted by a At the beginning of this month, we merged our Qjump reduction in the number of platforms at St Pancras and the operation with Trainline.
com, creating a stronger, larger opening of a temporary station.
operation for rail ticket sales.
As part of the merger we have acquired a 14% shareholding of the enlarged business.
The REGIONAL SERVICES Turnover for the period was combined business consolidates Trainline.
coms position as the 939.5 million 2002: 861.4 million with a normalised UKs leading rail ticketing retailer and we believe the enlarged operating loss of 0.4 million 2002: profit 4.7 million.
entity will be more successful moving forward.
As part of our two year extension at Central, 5.0 million will Earlier this month we signed two year extensions for our Great be invested over the next two years in passenger benefits Northern and Wessex franchises.
Moving forward a two year including a new Customer Service Academy for all Central franchise extension is under discussion for Silverlink and we staff.
Following the reopening of Birmingham city centre, await the preferred bidder announcement for the ScotRail Centrals patronage has increased 3% year-on-year as shoppers franchise.
Plans are well underway for the launch of the Greater from a wider catchment area are travelling to Birmingham by Anglia franchise at the beginning of April.
We are also preparing train.
During the year, Central took over operation of the ourselves for the next round of franchise bids including the Birmingham to Cardiff and Liverpool services.
Operational Intercity East Coast rail franchise.
We look forward to further performance continues to be a challenge but we are making improvements in operational performance across the division.
Wessex Trains increased its operations significantly over the last twelve months following a transfer of selected services from Virgin Trains to Wessex.
Patronage growth during the year was a very creditable 8%.
In February 2004 a two year extension for Wessex was signed.
