Dick Barfield Senior Non-executive Director 56 Appointed chief executive of New Look on 8 May 2000, having joined as Appointed a non-executive director of New Look in September 1997.
He managing director, retail, on 1 May 1998.
After training with Marks & Spencer had over 25 years of experience at The Standard Life Assurance Company, plc he joined J Sainsbury plc in 1989, becoming departmental director in 1992. where he was chief investment manager from 1988 to 1996.
He is currently He joined New Look from Arcadia Group plc, where he was managing a non-executive director of Equitas Holdings Ltd, Marshalls PLC, Baillie director of Dorothy Perkins from 1994, and subsequently managing director Gifford Japan Trust plc, The Merchants Trust plc, The Edinburgh Investment responsible for mergers and acquisitions and new business development.
Trust plc and The J. P. Morgan Fleming Overseas Investment Trust plc.
He has over 20 years of retailing experience.
Phil Wrigley Managing Director 50 Appointed a non-executive director of New Look on 14 March 2000.
She is Appointed on 2 October 2000, he joined New Look from Bhs Ltd. where he managing director of Guardian & Observer Newspapers and brings a wealth was buying and merchandising director from 1999, with responsibility for of marketing and media experience to the Group.
the trading strategy of the company.
Previously a retail operations director at Dorothy Perkins, he has over 18 years of retailing experience.
Tom Singh Non-executive Director 53 responsibility for operations, property, human resources, logistics, buying, Founded the New Look business in 1969 and had overall responsibility for merchandising and marketing.
He is also the named director responsible New Looks buying and merchandising until he became a non-executive for health and safety.
He now works as a consultant focusing on supplier relations and business development.
Carl McPhail Group Development Director 39 Appointed on 4 June 2001 as group operations director, he recently became group development director.
In this role he will drive the development of Audit Committee our French business and will be responsible for evaluating and taking forward Dick Barfield Chair, John Grieves, Carolyn McCall, Tom Singh other growth opportunities including new store formats and new product categories.
He joined from Selfridges plc where he was retail operations Remuneration Committee director.
Prior to Selfridges he was a retail director at Arcadia Group plc John Grieves Chair, Dick Barfield, Carolyn McCall and held senior positions at Burton Group and River Island.
He has over 20 years of retail experience.
Nomination Committee John Grieves Chair, Dick Barfield, Carolyn McCall, 4.
Alastair Miller Group Finance Director 44 Tom Singh, Stephen Sunnucks Appointed group finance director of New Look on 18 January 2000, he has responsibility for finance, systems, company secretariat and investor relations.
Secretary and Registered Office He joined New Look from the RAC where he was group finance director from Amanda Stephenson, New Look House, Mercery Road, 1995.
Previously a finance director within the BTR group and a management Weymouth, Dorset DT3 5HJ consultant with Price Waterhouse, he qualified as a chartered accountant with Deloitte Haskins and Sells, now part of  LLP.
considered by the Board to be independent He is also the named director with responsibility for environmental issues and the policy for corporate social responsibility.
John Grieves Non-executive Chairman 67 Appointed a non-executive director of New Look in May 1998, he became chairman on 1 May 2001.
He qualified as a solicitor in 1961 and was managing partner of Freshfields from 1979 to 1985 and senior partner from 1990 to 1996.
