DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their annual report and the audited financial statements of the Group for the 52 week period ended 29 March 2003. Review of the business The principal activity of the Group is the retailing of womenswear and related merchandise.
A detailed review of the performance of the Group during the period and expected future developments is contained in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and the Finance Directors Review on pages 3 to 11.
Results and dividends The Group profit on ordinary activities after tax for the period was 57.9m 2002: 41.8m.
The directors recommend a final dividend payment of 6.0p per ordinary share to be paid on 25 July 2003 to ordinary shareholders on the register on 27 June 2003 which, together with the interim dividend of 2.75p paid on 24 January 2003, makes a total of 8.75p for the period.
The board of directors The current Board of directors and their biographies are shown on pages 12 to 13.
No changes have been made to the Board in the past year.
However, on 6 March 2003 some changes in roles and responsibilities of the executive directors were announced.
The changes are the result of a review by the Chief Executive to ensure that the optimum structure is in place to deliver the strategy and to support the future growth of the business.
Phil Wrigley, Managing Director, has taken on additional responsibility for operations, property and human resources.
Carl McPhail, formerly Group Operations Director, became Group Development Director.
In the UK he will be responsible for evaluating opportunities such as new product categories and the development of New Look store projects.
Internationally, he will continue to work with the Mim management team to improve both sales densities and range planning over the next three years.
At present, no director will have held office for more than three years since their last appointment.
In accordance with the articles of association John Grieves, Carolyn McCall and Phil Wrigley shall retire by rotation and offer themselves for reappointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and for each subsequent period a further third of all directors shall retire by rotation and be eligible for reappointment.
DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Directors interests The interests of the directors who held office during the year are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 32.
No director had a material interest in any contract of significance with the Group.
People Our people, through their commitment and capability, enable our business to deliver results.
And it is our unique culture that gives everyone at New Look the opportunity to get involved in the business as well as to develop their skills and careers.
We are committed to the personal development of our people and provide many opportunities for training and skills development.
Performance appraisal, coaching and support is fundamental to our talent development for the future and we have a succession plan in place that is reviewed on a six monthly basis by the executive directors.
Our people are encouraged to discuss the strategy and direction of the Company with their management and they are consulted about subjects that affect the day to day operations of the Group.
We have several forums where management hold open discussions about matters of strategic and operational interest.
We seek feedback from our people through an annual climate survey and the results of the survey feed directly into the development of our human resources strategy.
The directors recognise that the continued success of the Group depends upon its ability to attract, motivate and retain people of the highest calibre.
We ensure that no job applicant or employee is discriminated against, either directly or indirectly, on grounds of sex, race, nationality, ethnic or racial origins, marital status, religious belief, political opinion, age and sexual orientation.
It is the policy of the Group to give equal opportunity of employment to disabled and able persons according to their suitability to perform the work required.
The services of existing employees who are or become disabled are retained whenever practicable.
The Group is committed to applying the provisions of the Disability Discrimination Act 1995.
During the period, eligible employees were given the opportunity to participate in an employee savings related share option scheme.
Health and safety review New Look continues its commitment to the health, safety and well being of its employees, customers and other persons engaged in business with the Group.
In the UK, this is being achieved through a structured approach to health and safety and the introduction of a long term strategy with measurable objectives, with all of this years objectives being achieved in the year.
We are currently extending this approach to our Mim subsidiary.
In the UK, the objectives have included a reduction in the incident rate by 37.1% from 2000 to the end of 2002, bringing us below the industry norm.
An occupational health scheme was also introduced and a 50% reduction on the previous year was achieved in the receipt of formal notices from local council or fire authorities.
ANNUAL REPORT 2002 03 15 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED To ensure our continued improvement, all new legislation in the UK affecting the Company is identified by the health & safety manager and the requirements for compliance discussed and agreed at committee meetings.
These meetings are held at three different levels within the business to ensure consultation and the appropriate level of responsibility is taken for the right tasks.
The top level meeting is attended by directors and chaired by our Managing Director, Phil Wrigley.
As part of our continual review in the UK, we commissioned the British Safety Council to carry out a full health and safety audit.
As a result of this extensive independent audit the Company proudly attained 89% best practice compliance, receiving a certificate for 4 Stars.
Supplier payment policy It is the policy of the Group either to agree terms of payments at the start of business or to ensure that the supplier is made aware of the Groups payment terms.
Payment is made in accordance with contractual or other legal obligations.
Trade creditors of the Group at 29 March 2003 were equivalent to 15 days purchases 2002: 19 days.
The holding company, New Look Group plc, had no trade creditors.
Market value of land and buildings The directors estimate that the existing use value of freehold properties is approximately 1.2m 2002: 1.2m less than the amount stated in the financial statements.
The difference relates principally to the purpose built distribution facility and associated land, the value of which is affected by its size and location and which is stated at cost less as appropriate accumulated depreciation.
Political donations It is a requirement under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 that companies obtain prior shareholder approval for any EU political donations and or EU political expenditure which in aggregate exceeds 5,000 in any twelve month period.
Under the Act the definitions of political organisation and political expenditure are very wide and may possibly include political donations to industry think tanks, law reform bodies or special interest groups.
It is not the intention of the Group to make political donations but as a precaution the Group sought authority at last years AGM to make donations or incur expenditure that may fall under the definitions in the Act up to 50,000.
A renewal of this authority for a further twelve months will be sought at this years AGM.
No political donations were made in 2003 2002: nil.
Charitable donations The Company has again been active within the local community, supporting various requests for charity and sponsorship donations.
We have been increasing local links in relation to education, health, business, and sport.
The Company also supports national charities as selected by employees and for whom they undertake activities to raise funds.
Internationally, we provide annually clothing and accessories to visiting children from Chernobyl and to poverty-stricken areas of South Africa and Bosnia.
New Look aims to maintain its support within the local community throughout the next financial year.
During the period the Group made charitable donations of 24,200 2002: 29,000.
16 ANNUAL REPORT 2002 03 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Substantial shareholdings On 23 May 2003, the Company had been notified, in accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of the following interests of 3% or more in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Ordinary shares Percentage of 5p each held T Singh 1 2 3 34,814,878 17.39 A Singh 2 3 5 17,864,806 8.92 Legis Trust Limited includes shares held by Lesing One Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary 2 3 4 14,513,552 7.25 Barclays PLC 6 13,838,244 6.91 FMR Corp. and Fidelity International Limited 7 12,854,398 6.42 Liontrust Investment Services Limited 6,035,600 3.02 Notes 1 Includes interests or deemed interests in Legis Trust Limited including Lesing One Limited see Note 4 and the joint holdings of M Singh, T Singh and N Champ see Note 3.
On 23 February 2000, T Singh transferred 4.8m ordinary shares of the company to Barclays Nominees Branches Limited.
Beneficial ownership of the shares remains in T Singhs name.
2 Options have been granted over a total of approximately 5.8m ordinary shares under the Family Option Scheme see Remuneration Report.
3 For the avoidance of doubt the Singh family aggregate holding is 55,159,901 representing 27.55% of the ordinary share capital of the Company.
4 Legis Trust Limited is trustee of trusts in which members of T Singhs family are interested.
One such trust holds all the shares in Lesing One Limited.
T Singh is deemed to be interested in some of these trusts and the shareholding of Lesing One Limited see Note 1.
5 The registered holders of A Singhs entire interest are M Singh, T Singh and N Champ.
6 Includes holdings registered in the name of its subsidiary Barclays Bank PLC.
7 Includes holdings registered in this name or their direct and indirect subsidiaries.
Auditors Following the conversion of our auditors, , to a limited liability partnership LLP from 1 January 2003,  resigned on 20 February 2003 and the directors appointed its successor,  LLP, as auditors.
 LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution proposing their reappointment as auditors to the Company special notice having been received for the ensuing year will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at 11:00 a. m. on 17 July 2003 at The Portland Heights Hotel, Isle of Portland, Dorset, DT5 2EN incorporating explanatory notes of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting, is given in the Notice of Meeting on pages 60 to 63.
By order of the Board Amanda Stephenson Company Secretary 29 May 2003 ANNUAL REPORT 2002 03 17
