NEXT PLC DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS David Jones CBE, Chairman Alistair Mitchell-Innes, Deputy Chairman and Aged 60 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Joined the Group and was appointed to the Board in 1986.
Aged 69 Appointed Chief Executive in 1988 and became Deputy Became a member of the Board in 1989.
He is also Chairman of Chairman in 2001 and Chairman in May 2002.
Previous NEXT Pension Trustees Limited and Anglo & Overseas Trust plc.
experience includes twenty years in a large home shopping and Formerly Chief Executive of Nabisco UK, he has held senior consumer services group and five years as Chief Executive of a UK non-executive appointments in other UK plcs and is also a listed home shopping plc.
Trustee of the British Heart Foundation.
Simon Wolfson, Chief Executive Ann Burdus CBE Aged 35 Aged 69 Joined the Group in 1991.
Appointed Retail Sales Director in Became a member of the Board in 1993.
She is also a 1993, became responsible for NEXT Directory in 1995 and was non-executive director of Prudential Corporation PLC and a appointed to the Board in 1997 with additional responsibilities special trustee of the St. Bartholomews and The Royal London for systems.
Appointed Managing Director of the NEXT Brand in Charitable Foundation.
Previous experience includes a career in 1999 and Chief Executive in 2001. advertising, marketing and market research.
Christos Angelides, Group Product Director Derek Netherton Aged 39 Aged 58 Joined the Group in 1986 and was appointed General Manager Became a member of the Board in 1996.
He is also Chairman of of the Companys sourcing office in Hong Kong in 1989, Greggs plc and a non-executive director of Hiscox plc, St. Jamess Menswear Product Director in 1994 and Womenswear Product Place Capital plc and Plantation & General Investments plc.
Appointed to the Board in 2000.
Formerly a director of J. Henry Schroder Co. Limited and currently a member of the Schroder Exempt Property Unit Trust David Keens, Group Finance Director Supervisory Board.
Aged 49 Joined the Group in 1986 and was appointed to the Board in 1991.
Previous experience includes seven years in the John Barton accountancy profession and nine years in the UK and overseas Aged 58 operations of a multi-national manufacturer of consumer goods.
Became a member of the Board in 2002.
He is also Chairman of Wellington Underwriting Plc and a non-executive director of Andrew Varley, Group Property Director Hammerson Plc, General Insurance Standards Council Ltd and Aged 52 WH Smith PLC.
Formerly Chief Executive of JIB Group plc for Joined the Group in 1985 and was appointed to the Board in thirteen years and Chairman of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group 1990.
Previous experience includes twelve years in retail and plc for five years.
Company Secretary BOARD COMMITTEES W R Barnes Audit Committee D N D Netherton Committee Chairman R J O Barton Registered Office J A Burdus Desford Road, Enderby, A C Mitchell-Innes Leicester, LE19 4AT This committee reviews the Groups internal control, accounting Registered in England, no.
4412362 policies and its financial reporting.
Registrars Remuneration Committee Lloyds TSB Registrars, R J O Barton Committee Chairman The Causeway, J A Burdus Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA A C Mitchell-Innes D N D Netherton This committee sets the remuneration of the Groups executive Auditors directors.
Ernst & Young LLP Nomination Committee Merchant Bankers A C Mitchell-Innes Committee Chairman Lazard & Co. Limited R J O Barton J A Burdus D N D Netherton Stockbrokers This committee considers the appointment of the Groups directors.
