Report of the directors The directors of Northern Foods plc present their report and the accounts Directors biographical details are set out on page 24 of the Annual review.
of the company for the year ended 31 March 2003.
In accordance with the companys articles of association, P H Blackburn, Principal activities and business review C Dyer, A J Hobson, O G Ni-Chionna and A J Stewart retire and, being eligible, This report should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans statement, the offer themselves for re-election.
Chief executives statement and the Financial review, which together include information about group activities, the financial performance during the year M T Gribbin and H R Sims, having been appointed directors since the 2002 and likely developments.
Annual general meeting, offer themselves for election.
Acquisitions and disposals The executive directors service contracts, including that of A J Stewart, the The following disposal took place in the year and is referred to in the retiring executive director, and those of M T Gribbin and H R Sims, executive Chairmans statement and the Financial review: directors who are standing for election, are referred to in the Directors remuneration report.
All the executive directors service contracts are On 2 April 2002 Convenience Foods Limited completed the sale of terminable by the company giving one years notice.
the Ski and Munch Bunch brands, together with the yogurt facility at Cuddington, to Nestl UK Limited for 145 million in cash.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the company, as at 31 March 2003, are shown in the Directors remuneration report.
Other Dividend than service contracts, no director has a material beneficial interest in any An interim dividend of 3.25 pence per share was paid on 28 March 2003 contract to which the company, or any of its subsidiaries, was a party and the directors recommend a final dividend of 5.45 pence per share to be during the year.
paid on 29 August 2003 to shareholders on the register on 25 July 2003.
Social responsibility Share capital The report entitled Recognising our social responsibilities on pages 18 Pursuant to the authority granted by shareholders at the Annual general to 20 of the Annual review gives further details of our commitments to our meeting on 18 July 2002, Northern Foods has implemented a share buyback employees, local communities, the environment and to ethical trading.
programme of up to 10 per cent of its equity.
This latest programme started in July 2002 and to date 23,495,460 ordinary shares have been bought back.
Employee share schemes The company operates savings-related and executive share option schemes, On 2 December 2002, options over 3,883,500 ordinary shares were reference to which is made under the section Share capital above.
granted under the companys executive share option scheme at a price of 168.08 pence.
More than 13,000 current employees, pensioners and former employees have shares held on their behalf by the trustees of the companys previous Options have been exercised under the companys executive and savingsprofit sharing scheme.
related share option schemes during the year ended 31 March 2003.
As a result, participants in these schemes were allotted 515,437 new Health and safety ordinary shares in that period.
Northern Foods commitment to health and safety is set out in the companys policy statement and summarised in the social responsibility Options outstanding under the above schemes at 31 March 2003 were report in the Annual review.
Annual objectives are set at the beginning of the 19,819,809.
From 1 April 2003 to 27 May 2003, 49,527 new ordinary shares financial year and performance is monitored and reviewed by the executive have been allotted on the exercise of options.
A separate report is prepared on health and safety performance and is available on request.
Substantial holders of stock The directors have received notification of an interest of 3 per cent or more Charitable and political contributions in the issued share capital of the company from the following: During the year the group donated 266,000 for charitable purposes.
The groups donations for the previous financial year totalled 445,000.
Details Legal & General Investment Management 3.01 per cent of the support for local communities are included in the social responsibility Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd 7.10 per cent report in the Annual review.
There were no political contributions.
Directors Product development The following were directors of the company during the year: Lifestyle changes and consumers desire for greater choice and convenience require a continuous programme of investment in catalogue refreshment, Helen Alexander resigned 31 December 2002 new products and product innovation.
Northern Foods specialist new Peter Blackburn product development teams work with major retail customers to address Sean Christie these needs.
Each Northern Foods company has the facilities and resources Colin Dyer to ensure that its products meet the highest standards of quality, safety Jonathan Fry resigned 28 May 2002 and added value.
Matthew Gribbin appointed 27 January 2003 Tony Hobson appointed 28 May 2002 Orna Ni-Chionna appointed 28 May 2002 Howard Sims appointed 27 January 2003 Jo Stewart non-executive directors 06 | Report of the directors Northern Foods plc Food safety The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which Northern Foods, as one of the leading UK food producers, maintains its disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of absolute commitment to the safety of its products.
This requires the the company and the group, and enable them to ensure that the accounts highest operational standards in its facilities, careful design of processes and comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for products and approval of only those suppliers who can meet the companys safeguarding the assets of the company and the group, and hence for standards for food safety and integrity throughout the supply chain from taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and farmer to consumer.
Northern Foods also requires high standards from other irregularities.
employees and contractors visiting its factories.
The companys proactive approach to food safety includes the setting of standards and policy, food The board and executive committee safety training for all employees, accreditation of Northern Foods central The board of directors generally meets eight times a year.
All directors laboratory for microbiological and chemical analysis, assessment and attended every board meeting during the year except that C Dyer was approval of suppliers and audits of the quality management systems unable to attend one meeting.
of the companys own sites against the Northern Foods standard.
J M Fry was the senior independent director until his resignation from Supplier payment policy the board on 28 May 2002, when he was succeeded by A J Hobson.
It is the companys policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between the company All the non-executive directors are considered by the board to be and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been independent.
They have wide-ranging experience and all currently occupy, met.
Suppliers are paid on average within 28 days 2002: 33 days of receipt or have occupied, senior positions in industry.
Under the companys articles of association all directors are subject to Annual general meeting re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
The non-executive The notice convening the companys Annual general meeting to be held directors stand for re-election each year.
at 12.30 pm on Thursday, 17 July 2003 is contained in the circular sent to shareholders with this report.
Non-executive directors receive a range of information about the company upon appointment.
An induction programme is arranged, including site Going concern visits.
The board aims to hold one or more meetings each year at an After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the operating location.
group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern The board has specifically reserved a formal schedule of matters for its basis in preparing the accounts.
These include responsibility for approving overall group strategy and financial policy, board membership and board committees, acquisitions Auditors and divestments, and major capital expenditure.
Deloitte & Touche have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the company and a resolution proposing their re-appointment Northern Foods has an executive committee, which meets monthly and will be submitted to the companys Annual general meeting.
is responsible for the management of the group.
The executive committee consists of the four executive directors, three other senior group executives and the Company secretary.
Senior executives below board level are Corporate governance periodically invited to attend board meetings to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
Compliance Throughout the year ended 31 March 2003 Northern Foods has been Audit committee in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined The audit committee comprises C Dyer Chairman, P H Blackburn, Code on Corporate Governance annexed to the Listing Rules issued by A J Hobson and O G Ni-Chionna.
It meets at least twice a year and the Financial Services Authority.
oversees the groups internal audit function and reviews compliance with the auditors recommendations, accounting standards, regulations Directors responsibilities and statutes and reports on the systems of internal control and risk Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial management.
The companys external auditors attend audit committee year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company meetings at least twice a year and also have the opportunity of private and the group, and of the profit or loss for that period.
The committee also reviews the annual and interim financial statements before they are submitted to the board.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: Remuneration committee select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently The remuneration committee comprises A J Hobson Chairman, P H Blackburn, C Dyer and O G Ni-Chionna.
It establishes board policy in make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent respect of all terms of employment for executive directors.
The Directors remuneration report can be found on pages 10 to 18. state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
Nomination committee The nomination committee comprises P H Blackburn Chairman, C Dyer, The directors confirm that the accounts comply with the above A J Hobson and O G Ni-Chionna.
The committee regularly reviews the requirements.
structure, size and composition of the board.
It selects and recommends suitable candidates for appointment as directors of the company.
The committee also makes recommendations to the board in relation to succession planning.
Northern Foods plc Report of the directors | 07 Report of the directors continued Independent advice The Combined Code requires the directors to review the effectiveness There is an agreed procedure by which members of the board may take of the groups systems of internal control.
The key elements of the groups independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties.
All internal control systems and review processes are set out as follows: directors have access to the advice and services of the Company secretary, whose removal may only be effected with the approval of the board.
Background The risk culture in the group is based on a local, flexible response to business Relations with shareholders issues.
Short lines of communication ensure a rapid upward information The board attaches high importance to maintaining good relationships flow.
This culture has developed from the nature of the business, focused with all shareholders, who are kept informed of significant company as it is primarily on short shelf life foods.
The executive committee provides top down strategic input.
Where formality is necessary, for example on food safety, finance or health and The board regards the Annual general meeting as an opportunity to safety matters, then policies and procedures are in place to ensure that communicate directly with private investors and to encourage participative the operating companies conform.
Regular presentations on company direction are also made to institutional shareholders.
The following summarises the way the group assesses and mitigates risk: Auditors non-audit services Policies The internal audit function, having previously been conducted by Deloitte The board sets policy over key areas of risk which are applicable to all & Touche, is now carried out by a newly formed in-house internal audit companies, dealing inter alia with controls over food safety, accounting, department, staffed by qualified accountants including an internal audit treasury, capital expenditure, health and safety, personnel and information manager.
Other non-audit services are awarded to providers with the appropriate Group organisation and controls experience who provide the service at a competitive rate.
The auditors The business is run on a decentralised basis.
Each of the principal operating would not be selected if the nature of the work presented a threat to the companies has a full management team under the control of a company independence of the audit team.
managing director responsible for strategic direction and day to day running.
Each operating company is required to prepare detailed annual The audit committee keeps under review the independence and objectivity budgets and strategic plans.
Budgets are reviewed and updated on a of the internal audit function and the external audit function.
Each company prepares weekly and monthly accounts and committee reviews the nature, scope and findings of internal audit.
The performance is monitored against the original, and any updated, budget.
auditors report to the directors and the audit committee on the actions The groups executive committee meets on a formal basis each month they take to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and to review the above.
best practice required to ensure their independence.
The group operates investment approval procedures for capital projects Internal control and acquisitions, which require executive committee or board approval, The directors have responsibility for the groups system of internal control, depending upon the level of spend.
which covers all aspects of the business.
This includes financial, operational, compliance control and risk management.
The directors set policies and seek The companies are supplemented by a corporate management resource regular assurance that the system of internal control is operating effectively.
and by specialist central functions.
These specialist functions, which provide the technical skills to support the companies and provide assurance over Whilst the directors acknowledge their responsibility for the system of the major areas of risk, are as follows: internal control, any such system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss and is designed Financial and IT internal audit reviews the standard of internal financial to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business control and the accuracy of financial reporting through a rolling cycle of objectives.
Technical services provides risk management in the areas of food safety, food quality, fire prevention and approval of contractors providing building, engineering and professional services.
The food technology team assesses and approves raw material suppliers, audits the quality management systems in the groups operating companies, provides guidance on compliance with food-related and environmental legislation, sets technical standards and offers expertise on a wide range of food science and technology issues.
The engineering team sets standards for building construction and fire risk management, maintains a database of approved contractors, provides an expert consultancy for the acquisition, management and disposal of physical assets, as well as assessing and approving suppliers of capital equipment and non-saleable revenue items.
08 | Report of the directors Northern Foods plc Health and safety provides professional advice on best practice and also audits health and safety procedures within the business.
Legal provides and obtains advice on a full range of legal issues across the group, and ensures good title to properties and intangible assets.
Insurance, in conjunction with the groups external insurance brokers through a group programme, ensures adequate cover for major losses with appropriate levels of deductible.
This cover is reviewed and negotiated annually.
Personnel, through its management resources review, ensures the adequacy of existing management and plans succession.
Group executives oversee the companies under their control and also have group-wide responsibility for the major customers.
The audit committee oversees both internal and external audit procedures and deals with significant control issues raised.
Review process The management of business risks continues to be an essential part of ensuring that the group and each operating company meets its objectives and delivers value for shareholders.
The formal process for reviewing business risks has been embedded in the budget process.
Each company is required to carry out a formal review to assess business risks in terms of impact and likelihood, and the controls in place to manage those risks, as part of the budget process.
Companies are required to formulate action plans where appropriate to improve controls.
Progress of these plans is reviewed by the group executive and the internal auditors.
Companies and specialist functions report by exception on any matters arising during the year to the monthly group executive meetings.
The results of the formal half yearly reviews are taken forward to the audit committee.
The board is therefore able to confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group, that it has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of these accounts, and that it is regularly reviewed by the board and accords with Turnbull guidance.
Following the publication of the Higgs report on the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors, the Smith report on audit committees, and the setting up of a working group to be chaired by Sir Bryan Nicholson, the board will give full consideration to the changes to be made to the Combined Code in due course.
By order of the board Julian Wild Company secretary 28 May 2003 Northern Foods plc Report of the directors | 09
