CORPORATE GOVERNANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY work on behalf of shareholders and providing other fee-paying The Board regards the monitoring and control of health and all hazardous waste principally engine oils, batteries, tyres Monitoring services to the Company.
The Boards policy on non-audit safety and environmental issues as a key part of its risk and other vehicle consumables is collected and disposed The Board has delegated to executive management work is: management programme.
of by licensed contractors: implementation of the system of internal control.
The Board, prior to acquiring new sites, environmental risk including the Audit Committee, receives reports on the system Tax advisory and other audit-related work including in The Board has designated the Chief Executive as the person assessments, to ISO 9000 standard, are carried out by of control from the external auditors and from management.
ultimately responsible to the Board for all health, safety and external consultants: An independent internal audit function reports bi-annually to This is work that, in their capacity as auditors, they are best environmental matters throughout the Group.
Responsibility we have arranged with the Institute of Advanced Motorists the Audit Committee primarily on the key areas of risk within placed to carry out and will generally be asked to do so.
for implementing the Groups policy is devolved to regional a rolling programme of driver assessment and training for the business.
Nevertheless, where appropriate, they will be asked for a and depot management.
all employees who have a company vehicle or who are fee quote.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the To provide technical advice and support a Group health and otherwise required to drive as part of their duties.
effectiveness of the system of internal controls covering Non-audit related and general consultancy work.
safety committee has been established and a qualified health financial, operational and compliance matters and risk A comprehensive health and safety procedures manual and This type of work will either be placed on the basis of the and safety officer appointed, part of whose responsibility is to management, for the period covered by these financial a vehicle user handbook provide guidance and advice in lowest fee quote or to the consultants who are felt to be best visit every Group location at least once a year to carry out a statements in accordance with the guidance contained in implementing the Groups health and safety policy.
Relevant able to provide the expertise and working relationship health and safety audit.
Where appropriate, outside the Turnbull Report.
training is provided to all employees.
In certain instances, such as the appointment of professional advice and services are used: consultants to provide external advice and support to the During the year under review no major incidents classed as Audit in compliance with the Electricity at Work Regulations, a internal audit department, the auditors will not be invited to those resulting in death, serious injury or significant pollution The Audit Committee is currently comprised of the two rolling programme of electrical inspections and surveys, compete for the work.
independent non-executive Directors and chaired by Ron covering all Group locations, is carried out by qualified Williams, who is Deputy Chairman of the Board.
The Fees paid to Deloitte & Touche in respect of the year under electrical contractors: No health and safety enforcement notices were served on Committee has written terms of reference setting out its review were as follows: a programme of surveys has been put in place to meet any company in the Group and there were no convictions duties.
These include matters relating to the appointment and the requirements of the new Asbestos Regulations, due to for health and safety offences during the year.
There were 000 fees of the external auditors and review of the annual and come into force in 2004, using licensed contractors: no pending prosecutions outstanding at the year end.
Statutory audit 173 interim statements, of the Groups internal controls and of the nature, scope and results of the internal audit programme.
Tax advice principally Corporation Tax 72 Due diligence 102 The Committee has access to the resources and facilities it requires to enable it to carry out its duties.
These include Other 65 external professional advice and direct access to the Company 412 Secretary and other relevant staff.
Both the external auditors and the internal audit manager have direct access to members In light of the recently published report on audit committees of the Committee and can meet with the Committee without by the group appointed by the Financial Reporting Council and the Companys management being present.
chaired by Sir Robert Smith, the Board is currently undertaking a review of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has met formally on four occasions Subject to any further changes to the Combined Code resulting during the year.
from the publication in January 2003 of Derek Higgs Review As well as being attended by both members of the of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors, the Committee, all other Board members were invited Board would expect the new terms of reference to be in place attendees at the above meetings.
by the end of the current financial year.
The external auditors attended three meetings.
The internal audit manager attended two meetings.
Compliance In addition to the four meetings referred to above, The Board considers that the Company was in compliance the two members of the Committee, together with the with the provisions of the Code applicable to listed companies Chairman of the Board, had informal meetings with the throughout the financial year, with the exception of the external auditors and, separately, with the internal audit requirement to appoint three non-executive Directors to the manager, both with no other Directors present.
Audit Committee see under Audit above.
The composition of the Audit Committee will remain unchanged until the The Committee also monitors the independence and objectivity of the external auditors in carrying out their statutory audit appointment of a further independent non-executive Director.
20 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 21
