969 18-23 18 3 04 12:59 pm Page 18 Novar annual report 2003 18 The Board The Board Sir Graham Hearne CBE 66 Jurgen Hintz 61 Mike McKeon 47 Daniel Dayan 40 Non-executive Chairman.
Group Chief Executive and Appointed to the Board in April Executive Director.
Appointed Appointed to the Board in July executive Director since 2000 as Group Finance Director to the Board in January 2004.
He is Chairman of Catlin November 1997.
He was and executive Director.
He was He is the Chief Executive of the Group Ltd and Braemar formerly President and Chief previously Finance Director Intelligent Building Systems Seascope Group plc, and Executive of CarnaudMetalbox of the aerospace activities of Sector and has been with the Deputy Chairman of Gallaher S. A. before which he was Rolls-Royce Plc and of the Group since 1994.
He is also a nonExecutive Vice-President and beverage packing sector of engineer, his earlier career was executive Director of NM a main Board Director of the CarnaudMetalbox S. A.
Before with ICI and Arthur D Little.
Rothschild & Sons Ltd. His most Procter & Gamble Company.
that he spent some years at recent previous appointment .
was Chief Executive and then Chairman of Enterprise Oil plc.
Hans Nilsson 48 Oliver Stocken 62 Sir Geoffrey Whalen CBE 68 Stephen Howard 50 Non-executive Director.
Non-executive Director since Non-executive Director.
Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in June January 1996.
He is the Senior Appointed to the Board in June January 2004.
He is Deputy Chairman of Independent Director.
He is the Group Chief Executive of Spectris plc and 3i Group plc and a non-executive Chairman of Coventry Building Executive of Cookson Group plc was previously the European Director of Pilkington plc, The Society and a non-executive and a non-executive Director of managing director of Flextronics.
Rank Group plc, Rutland Trust Director of Federal Mogul Slough Estates plc.
Before that he held positions at PLC, Stanhope plc and GUS Corporation.
He is a former Hewlett Packard and ABB.
He was previously Finance managing director of Peugeot Director of Barclays PLC.
Member of the Nomination Group Company Secretary Committee only.
Karen Richardson Member of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees.
