969 06-11 18 3 04 12:53 pm Page 10 Novar annual report 2003 10 Security Printing Services Security Printing Services Clarke American delivers Expert Solutions The Expert Solutions Program helps Clarke Americans financial institution partners to meet the cheque ordering and related service needs of the flourishing small business market.
4,000 US financial institutions use our cheque ordering solutions 12 electronically linked digital printing facilities produce world-class results 4 customer service centres strategically located throughout the USA deliver round the clock customer care 969 06-11 18 3 04 12:54 pm Page 11 Novar annual report 2003 Security Printing Services continued 11 Small businesses account for a majority of the private US payroll, and are the source of more than 60% of new jobs in America annually.
In addition, the small business market is one of the few showing signs of real economic Clarke American produces more than 55 million cheque recovery, with an expected 4% annual growth rate orders a year and handles more than 17 million customer through to 2006.
The fastest growing product line and partner contacts annually on behalf of financial among this small business segment is computer laser institution partners, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
These make bill paying quick and easy for The company utilises a fully integrated, electronically business owners and represent a significant market linked network of world-class manufacturing facilities opportunity.
and customer service centres, and serves more than 4,000 banking, credit union, and other financial In order to assist partners with meeting the demands of institution partners nationwide.
The company has 3,200 this thriving sector, Clarke American developed the employees termed associates and was honoured by Expert Solutions Program.
Expert Solutions is designed the US Department of Commerce as a recipient of the specifically for business account holders and offers 2001 Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award.
direct contact with Clarke American customer service consultants.
The turnkey programme provides financial Clarke American incorporates smart technology and institutions with everything they need to service exceptional service to provide quality driven, customer business account holders, from marketing kits and full focused results for each market it serves.
colour catalogues to branch training and telephone and Internet ordering options.
Expert Solutions saves time, Engaging account holders in the ordering channel of improves order accuracy and enhances revenue.
their choice enables the company to promote a wide range of ancillary products and services which, in turn, Business account holders can reach Clarke American helps partners to develop and expand their own product experts via a toll-free telephone number or the customer relationships and grow their business.
In Internet, and have the option of placing their order from addition to selling cheque products and services, Clarke the financial institution branch, or their own office, or American also offers Customer Marketing Solutions from home.
The Expert Solutions ordering process is which promote and provide information on the thereby made simple and convenient, providing products and services of each financial institution products and services such as labels, security bags and directly to the account holder.
envelopes, in addition to the cheques themselves.
Direct Marketing Solutions comprises Checks In The Assisting financial institutions in growing and 2 Mail and B Direct.
Checks In The Mail sells bank deepening small business relationships is an example of cheques and accessories directly to consumers and how Clarke American is accelerating its vision to be the small business owners through free-standing inserts in premier resource for partners in the delivery of 2 newspapers and direct mail placements.
operates two business divisions, National Accounts and TranSource.
These divisions provide quality products and services to a number of business segments throughout the USA.
Direct Marketing Solutions serves 3.8 million customers annually and employs over 500 associates in three locations.
Small businesses are big business in todays economy.
Business cheque products and services represent a substantial growth area for Clarke Americans financial institution partners.
Clarke Americans associates strive to provide passionate customer care, a goal that extends well beyond the Expert Solutions Program.
