969 06-11 18 3 04 12:53 pm Page 08 Novar annual report 2003 08 Indalex Aluminum Solutions Indalex Aluminum Solutions Light Transport Options Indalex Aluminum Solutions has teamed up with transportation and automotive suppliers such as Raufoss of Norway to supply lighter aluminium components.
4 million square feet of manufacturing space 16 extrusion plants in the USA and Canada 11 electrostatic paint lines and five anodising lines including some of the largest capabilities in North America 969 06-11 18 3 04 12:53 pm Page 09 Novar annual report 2003 Indalex Aluminum Solutions continued 09 In the automotive segment, Indalex has partnered with Raufoss, a Norwegian tier one supplier to European manufacturers such as Volvo, Audi and Saab, which is making major inroads into the North American market.
Indalex is one of the worlds largest aluminium extrusion Raufoss now supplies an aluminium-intensive companies with a comprehensive network of plants suspension system for General Motors new Epsilon across North America and a strategic partnership platform, and Indalex is the key long term supplier of providing substantial additional offshore manufacturing aluminium components for this programme.
It is the largest independent buyer of of the first vehicle built on the Epsilon platform the aluminium billet in the world.
Indalex works closely 2003 Chevrolet Malibu was launched in the fourth with its customers to develop innovative technical quarter of 2003.
At full production, the Epsilon platform solutions specific to their needs.
This includes both will be featured on 400,000 to 600,000 vehicles across design and engineering services, as well as fabrication several models.
Additional applications for General and finishing, and provides resources which are Motors, Ford, Volvo and other manufacturers include dedicated to support their growth.
The industries it everything from structural and interior components to services are building and construction both residential door hinges and headlight fixtures.
and commercial, consumer durables, electrical and cable, machinery and equipment, transportation and The combination of aluminiums inherent advantages distribution, and automotive.
lightweight, strong and durable, corrosion resistant and a focused strategy well executed by the Indalex The fastest growing segment of the North American team, is resulting in significant market share gains and market for extruded aluminium components is opening further growth opportunities for the future.
Of this, the truck trailer segment grew by 30% in 2003.
In order to support this expanding market, Indalex is one of the first North American manufacturers to earn The use of extruded aluminium for commercial the new ISO TS 16949 certification for automotive and recreational vehicles is expanding significantly quality management systems.
This will be mandated as a result of growing demand and increasing by global automobile manufacturers by 2006 and substitution of lighter weight aluminium instead of will replace the current QS: 9000: Third Edition steel.
From side panels and other components used automotive quality standard which will become in the growing truck trailer segment to everything obsolete, and aligns existing US and European from suspension systems to interior components automotive quality system standards.
The new standard in automobiles, the inherent characteristics of specifies quality system requirements from design aluminium are helping vehicle manufacturers to meet and development to production, installation and federally mandated standards for fuel economy and servicing of automotive-related products, and focuses market demand for larger vehicles.
This is being on adding value, achieving customer satisfaction and achieved without sacrificing safety, or cargo and creating measurable continuous improvement.
Early achievement of this new global automotive Indalex is a key strategic supply partner with major standard provides another key competitive advantage truck trailer and specialised vehicle manufacturers in for Indalex as it focuses on its partnership with the the United States.
The companys ability to deliver leading automotive manufacturers in North America.
shorter lead times and higher quality is supporting increased sales to these high volume businesses.
The companys strong and coordinated manufacturing network in the US Midwest has also made it a major supplier to the recreational vehicle market, as most manufacturers are based in this geographic region close to Indalex facilities.
Indalex and Raufoss are set to grow their partnership in the tier one North American automotive suppliers market, with lightweight aluminium suspension control arms.
