969 18-23 18 3 04 12:59 pm Page 20 Novar annual report 2003 20 Report of the Directors continued the Code now including Main and Supporting Principles of Good Arrangements are in place for all Directors to receive appropriate Governance, and whether the Company has complied throughout training on their appointment, and periodically thereafter, as the reporting period with the Codes Provisions.
Site visits are arranged for the Board during which time describes how the principles of governance set out in the Code are briefings are arranged, and the Board is able to discuss aspects applied in relation to Directors, Directors Remuneration separately of the business with employees at all levels.
on pages 24 to 27, Financial Reporting, Internal Controls, the Audit Committee and Auditors, and Relations with Shareholders.
The Board has undertaken a formal evaluation of its performance during the year, which was conducted by external consultants.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the The results of the evaluation were reported back to the Board.
Combined Code provisions which were applicable for this It is proposed to evaluate the individual Directors and the Boards reporting period throughout the year under review.
Where new committees in 2004, and continue with a programme of annual provisions have been introduced in the revised Code, the Board is evaluations thereafter.
taking steps to implement these.
The Board receives regular updates on the views of the Companys The Board of Directors meets at least eight times during the year major shareholders, with the object of it having a balanced and consists of three executive Directors, four non-executive understanding of issues and concerns affecting them.
Regular Directors, all of whom the Board considers to be independent, plus contact and dialogue with major shareholders is maintained by the the non-executive Chairman, as described on page 18.
The Board Directors through meetings and presentations.
is responsible for the overall direction, current performance, and long-term prosperity of the Company.
It exercises control by Sir Geoffrey Whalen is the Senior Independent Director.
The determining matters specifically reserved to it in a formal schedule Chairman and non-executive Directors meet periodically without of Powers Reserved which only the Board may change: these the executive Directors present.
The non-executive Directors have include major capital expenditure: major treasury and financial met during the year without the Chairman present.
decisions: internal controls: acquisitions or divestments of businesses: and communications with shareholders.
The Nomination Committee consists of all the independent non-executive Directors with Sir Graham Hearne as the chairman, The attendance of individual Directors at Board and Committee and meets at least twice a year.
The Group Chief Executive attends Meetings during 2003 is set out in the table below.
meetings of the Committee by invitation.
The role and responsibilities of the Committee provide for it to review regularly the Board Board Committee structure, size and composition and to make recommendations Meetings Meetings to the full Board in relation to: executive and non-executive Attended Attended Board appointments and resignations including the re-election Directors Total 9 meetings Total 10 meetings of Directors at the Companys Annual General Meeting : any Sir Graham Hearne 9 9 extensions to Directors service periods: and the approval of Mr S L Howard 9 10 outside appointments or directorships for executive Directors.
Dr G M Murphy 9 10 Mr O H J Stocken 9 9 In relation to the new Board appointments of Mr D A Dayan and Sir Geoffrey Whalen 7 8 Mr H D Nilsson, the Committee evaluated the balance of skills, Mr B J Hintz 9 knowledge and experience on the Board and the role and Mr C L Korbell 7 capabilities required.
An external search consultancy was Mr M J E McKeon 9 appointed to assist the Board with the search and selection process for Mr Nilsson.
The Board has delegated to the Group Chief Executive wide powers for the day-to-day management of the Company, including The Remuneration Committee consists of all the independent the approval of financial commitments below the levels requiring non-executive Directors with Sir Geoffrey Whalen as the chairman, Board approval.
It has also delegated to Committees of the Board and meets at least four times a year.
A description of the work responsibility for making recommendations to the full Board carried out by the Committee is set out in the Report or otherwise acting on its behalf in specialised areas: these are to shareholders on Directors remuneration on pages 24 to 27. the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee and the Group Operating Committee.
The The Audit Committee comprises all the independent nonTerms of Reference of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit executive Directors with Mr O H J Stocken as the chairman, and Committees, including an explanation of their roles and the meets at least three times a year.
The Chairman, the Group Chief authority delegated to them by the Board, are available on the Executive, the Group Finance Director and representatives of the Companys website.
Further details of these Committees are set external auditors are normally invited to attend meetings of the out below.
The Corporate Audit Manager may also be invited to attend meetings, as appropriate.
The Chairman of the Board ensures the effectiveness of the Board in all aspects of its role and is responsible for setting the Board The role and responsibilities of the Committee require it to satisfy agenda.
He also ensures that the Board is provided with detailed itself that the Companys annual and interim accounts and other and timely information on matters to be considered at its meetings major financial statements issued by the Board follow generally and that the independent non-executive Directors have ready accepted accounting principles and give a fair and meaningful access to the executive Directors.
A procedure is in place for the account of the Groups affairs.
The Committee is also required to: executive and non-executive Directors to take, at the Companys expense, independent professional advice in the furtherance of monitor the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal their duties.
All the Directors have access to the assistance and financial control: advice of the Company Secretary.
monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: 969 18-23 18 3 04 12:59 pm Page 21 Novar annual report 2003 Report of the Directors continued 21 examine the scope of the external audit to ensure an effective The Board has assessed the significant risks and opportunities to service and review the results of the audit: the commercial success of the business from social, environmental review all arrangements relating to the engagement of the and ethical issues as part of its regular risk management reporting external auditor and monitor their objectivity and and review process.
independence: and develop and implement policy on the engagement of the Statement of Directors Responsibilities external auditor to supply non-audit services.
The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of In order to ensure that the objectivity and independence of the the state of affairs of the Company and Group as at the end of the external auditors is maintained, the Committee keeps under financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In review the nature, extent and fees paid in respect of the non-audit preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: services provided by them and has set policies and procedures relating to the provision by other firms of non-audit services to the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Group.
The Committee is also required to report to the Board any consistently: matters in respect of which it considers action or improvement is make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and needed and to make recommendations as to the steps to be prudent: and taken.
Arrangements for the Committee to receive reports of fraud state whether applicable accounting standards have been or other financial improprieties from employees of the Company followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and have been established through the Groups Fraud and Unethical explained in the financial statements.
Business Conduct Escalation Policy, a copy of which is on the Companys website.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy, at any time the The Group Operating Committee includes the executive Directors financial position of the Company and Group and enable them to and heads of business sectors as well as several functional heads, ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies with Mr Hintz as the chairman.
It acts as a general management Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of committee for running all the major business affairs of the Company.
the Company and Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Internal Control Statement The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal Corporate Social Responsibility control, including financial, operational and compliance controls The Group is committed to developing policies and achieving high and risk management, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It is standards in all facets of Corporate Social Responsibility.
designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can provide A separate report on Corporate Social Responsibility appears only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material on page 23, which among other things includes statements on misstatement or loss.
employment policies, health and safety, the environment and charitable donations.
The Board has adopted a Risk Management Policy and Group Risk Framework which establish a process for identifying, evaluating Directors and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process The names of the present Directors of the Company are shown on has been in place for the year under review and up to and including page 18.
Dr G M Murphy resigned as a Director on 31 December the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Mr C L Korbell also resigned as a Director on 31 December process is reviewed annually by the Board and accords with the 2003, although he continues in his role as President and Chief guidance set out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Executive Officer of the Security Printing Services sector.
Dayan and Mr H D Nilsson were appointed to the Board on 1 January 2004 as an executive Director, and an independent The Board has charged the Group Chief Executive, through the non-executive Director, respectively.
The other Directors whose Group Operating Committee, with responsibility for implementing names appear on page 18 were Directors of the Company policies on internal control.
Sector Chief Executives are responsible for risk management within Mr D A Dayan and Mr H D Nilsson, having been appointed to their sectors, including embedding the risk process in newly the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, retire under acquired businesses, and for notifying the Board, via the Group Article 93 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Mr B J Hintz, Operating Committee, where exposure to risks is of a material Mr S L Howard, Mr O H J Stocken and Sir Geoffrey Whalen nature.
Information on these significant risks, together with the retire by rotation under Article 95, and in accordance with the relevant control and monitoring procedures, is reviewed for Combined Code, each of them having been last re-elected in completeness and accuracy by the Group Operating Committee.
Each of them, being eligible, offers himself for re-election This information is presented to the Board for the Directors to as a Director.
The notice period contained in the contracts of assess the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In addition, service of Mr Hintz and Mr Dayan is included in the Report to the Group Operating Committee monitors the Groups significant shareholders on Directors remuneration on pages 24 to 27. risks on an ongoing basis.
The Board receives and reviews minutes Mr Howard, Mr Nilsson, Mr Stocken and Sir Geoffrey Whalen, of the meetings of the Group Operating Committee, in addition to being non-executive Directors, do not have service contracts oral reports from the respective heads of business sectors and with the Company.
A summary of the terms of service for each functional heads as required.
non-executive Director is also included in the Report to shareholders on Directors remuneration.
A brief biography of each Internal and external audit, and other related providers of of the Directors is included on page 18.
The Board believes assurance, perform reviews of control activities and provide regular that each non-executive Director seeking re-election has the written and oral reports to the Board via the Audit Committee.
necessary skills and experience for the role, and that the performance of those Directors retiring by rotation continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
969 18-23 18 3 04 12:59 pm Page 22 Novar annual report 2003 22 Report of the Directors continued During 2003, no Director had a material interest in any contract Resolution No.
6, which will be proposed as an Ordinary of significance with the Company as defined in The Listing Rules Resolution, renews the Directors authority granted at last years published by the Financial Services Authority.
Annual General Meeting for a further five year period to allot unissued share capital up to a maximum of 39,505,270 in nominal Directors Interests value, representing approximately 33% of the number of Ordinary Directors Interests in shares shares in issue.
It is the intention of the Board to continue the The beneficial interests of the Directors in office at the end of the practice of requesting this authority annually.
financial year in the shares of the Company at 31 December 2003 and at 1 January 2003, including the beneficial interests of their Resolution No.
7, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution, families, are set out in the table below.
renews the Directors authority until the end of the Annual General Meeting in the year 2005 to make issues of Ordinary shares or 31 December 2003 1 January 2003 convertible securities for cash, other than to existing shareholders Number of Number of pro rata to their holdings, up to 5,985,645 in nominal value, Directors Ordinary shares Ordinary shares representing approximately 5% of the number of Ordinary shares Sir Graham Hearne 13,113 12,253 in issue.
The proposal conforms with the pre-emption guidelines B J Hintz 1,851,802 1,822,600 issued by the investment protection bodies to ensure that existing S L Howard 13,158 13,158 shareholders interests are safeguarded.
It is also the Boards C L Korbell 78,007 70,318 intention to request this authority annually.
M J E McKeon 25,150 21,868 Dr G M Murphy 20,378 20,378 Purchase of own shares O H J Stocken 61,146 58,445 Special Resolutions Nos.
8 and 9 request authority for the Directors Sir Geoffrey Whalen 20,000 20,000 to make market purchases of the Companys Ordinary and Preference shares up to a maximum of 10% and 14.9% respectively Notes of the number of shares in issue.
The Directors consider it desirable 1 During the year the holdings of Sir Graham Hearne, Mr B J Hintz, Mr C L Korbell, that they should continue to have the flexibility to do this.
The Mr M J E McKeon and Mr O H J Stocken increased by 860: 29,202: 7,689: 3,282 Directors would plan to use this authority if and when they and 2,701 Ordinary shares respectively, having been purchased within a price considered it to be in the best interests of the Company and the range of 99.2p to 140p per share.
2 The executive Directors of the Company are deemed to have an interest in the intention is to continue to request it annually.
19,156,963 and 1,533,470 Ordinary shares held by the Novar Employee Trust and Novar Performance Partnership Plan Share Trust respectively.
The consent of holders of the 7.25p Preference shares to the 3 None of the Directors held any interest in the 7.25p Convertible Preference shares passing of these resolutions will be sought at a separate Class or B shares of the Company.
4 None of the Directors held any non-beneficial interest in any of the shares of Meeting following the Annual General Meeting.
5 None of the Directors held interests in the shares or loans of the Companys subsidiaries at any time during the year.
By order of the Board 6 No changes occurred in any of these interests between 31 December 2003 and 25 February 2004 other than a reduction of 17,453 Ordinary shares held by the K Richardson Novar Employee Trust.
Group Company Secretary 25 February 2004 Directors share options Details of Directors share options are disclosed in the Report to shareholders on Directors remuneration on pages 24 to 27.
Auditors On 1 August 2003, Deloitte & Touche, the Companys auditors, transferred their business to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2000.
The Companys consent has been given to treating the appointment of Deloitte &Touche as extending to Deloitte & Touche LLP with effect from 1 August 2003 under the provisions of section 26 5 of the Companies Act 1989.
5 to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLPas the Companys auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting Special Business Authority to allot shares and waiver of pre-emption rights The Companies Act 1985 requires the Directors to obtain authority from shareholders to allot unissued Ordinary shares or convertible securities of the Company except under employee share schemes, and to issue Ordinary shares or convertible securities for cash other than by way of rights to existing shareholders or under employee share schemes.
Although the Directors have no plans at present to issue new shares apart from those required for converting convertible securities, or employee share schemes, or any other obligations or potential obligations to allot, they believe that it is in the interests of the Company for these authorities to continue to be given to the Board.
