55 Report on directors remuneration Introduction to approve the companys long-term incentive and The directors remuneration report is presented to other share plans, including guidelines for the shareholders by the board and contains the following operation of such plans as a whole and, where information: relevant, the determination of performance measures and targets: a description of the duties of the personnel committee: to advise and decide on general and specic arrangements in connection with the termination a summary of the companys remuneration policy, of employment of executive directors, the chief including a statement of the companys policy on executives of the principal operating companies directors remuneration: and other members of the Pearson Management details of the terms of the service contracts and the Committee: remuneration of each director for the preceding to review the companys management development, financial year: training and succession plans: details of the awards under long-term incentive plans to recommend to the full board for its approval the held by the directors: remuneration and benets package of the chairman details of each directors interest in shares in the of the board: company: and to ensure that all provisions regarding disclosure a graph illustrating the performance of the as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report company relative to the FTSE All-Share index for the Regulations 2002 and the Combined Code last five years.
are fullled: This report complies with the Directors Remuneration to be exclusively responsible for establishing the Report Regulations 2002.
This report also sets out how selection criteria, selecting, appointing and setting the principles of the Combined Code relating to the terms of reference for any remuneration directors remuneration are applied.
consultants who advise the committee.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the annual Dennis Stevenson, chairman, Marjorie Scardino, chief general meeting on 30 April 2004 inviting them to executive, David Bell, director for people, and Robert consider and approve this report.
Head, compensation and benets director, provided material assistance to the committee during the year.
The personnel committee They attend meetings of the committee, although no Reuben Mark chairs the personnel committee: the other director is present when his or her own position is members of the committee during 2003 were Terry Burns being considered.
All three members of the committee are independent non-executive directors.
All members To ensure that it received independent advice, the attended all five meetings of the committee held committee has appointed Towers Perrin to supply during 2003. survey data and advise on market trends, long-term incentives and other general remuneration matters.
The committees duties are: Other external remuneration and benets specialists to determine and review regularly the remuneration also advised the committee.
Watson Wyatt advised policy and the remuneration and benets packages on retirement benets.
They were also actuaries for of the executive directors, the chief executives of the the Pearson Group Pension Plan and advisors to the principal operating companies and other members company on general retirement and benefit matters of the Pearson Management Committee who report in the UK and the US.
Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer directly to the CEO.
This includes base salary, annual provided legal advice on long-term incentives.
They were and long-term incentive entitlements and awards, the companys main UK legal advisor.
The committee did and pension arrangements: not appoint these rms.
together with the other independent directors as directed by the board, to review and approve corporate goals and objectives relevant to CEO compensation, evaluate the CEOs performance in light of those goals and objectives, and determine and approve the CEOs compensation level based on this evaluation: to review, when appropriate with external assistance, the remuneration and benets packages of comparable companies to ensure that the companys senior executives are fairly and competitively remunerated: 56 Report on directors remuneration continued Compliance Performance The committee believes that the company has We set out below Pearsons total shareholder return complied with the provisions regarding remuneration performance on two bases.
matters of the Combined Code on corporate governance First, we show Pearsons total shareholder return as required by the UK Listing Authority of the Financial relative to the FTSE All-Share index of which Pearson Services Authority.
is a constituent on an annual basis over the five-year period 1998 to 2003.
We have chosen this index on Items subject to audit the basis that it is a recognisable reference point and The items subject to audit in this report comprise the appropriate comparator for the majority of our investors.
sections on directors remuneration, directors pensions and movements in directors interests in restricted Total shareholder return shares and share options set out in tables 1, 2, 4 and 5 Pearson FTSE All-Share together with the accompanying notes set out below.
200 Remuneration policy 175 This report sets out the companys policy on directors 150 remuneration.
This policy will continue to apply to each director for 2004 and, so far as practicable, for 125 subsequent years.
The committee considers that a 100 successful remuneration policy needs to be sufciently 75 exible to take account of future changes in the companys business environment and in remuneration 50 practice.
Any changes in policy for years after 2004 will 25 be described in future reports, which will continue to be subject to shareholder approval.
All statements in this 0 99 00 01 02 03 report in relation to remuneration policy for years after 2004 should be considered in this context.
We also show Pearsons shareholder return performance Pearson seeks to generate a performance culture by relative to the FTSE All-Share, 100 and Media indices on a developing programmes that support its business goals monthly basis over 2003, the period to which this report and rewarding their achievement.
It is the companys relates.
Pearson is a constituent of all these indices.
policy that total remuneration base compensation plus Total shareholder return short-term and long-term incentives should reward Pearson FTSE All-Share FTSE 100 FTSE Media both short and long-term results, delivering competitive rewards for target performance, but outstanding rewards 130 for exceptional company performance.
120 The companys policy is that base compensation should provide the appropriate rate of remuneration for the job, taking into account relevant recruitment markets and 110 business sectors and geographic regions.
benefit programmes should ensure that Pearson retains a 100 competitive recruiting advantage.
Share ownership is encouraged throughout the 90 company.
Equity-based reward programmes align the interests of directors, and employees in general, with 80 Mar Jun Sep Dec those of shareholders by linking rewards with Pearsons financial success.
The committee selects performance measures and establishes targets for the companys various performance-related annual or long-term incentive plans based on an assessment of the interests of shareholders and the company and taking into account an appropriate balance of risk and reward for the directors and other participants.
The committee determines whether or not targets have been met under the companys various performancerelated annual or long-term incentive plans based on the relevant information and input from advisors and auditors as appropriate.
57 Main elements of remuneration market, but as an international company we recognise Totalremuneration is made up of xed and performancethe requirements, circumstances and mobility of linked elements.
Consistent with its policy, the individual executives.
committee places considerable emphasis on the performance-linked elements i. e. annual bonus, bonus Annual bonus share matching and long-term incentives.
The committee establishes the annual bonus plans for the executive directors, chief executives of the Based on the details set out in this report, our policy is companys principal operating companies and other that the relative importance of xed and performancemembers of the Pearson Management Committee, related remuneration for each of the directors should be including performance measures and targets and as follows: the amount of bonus that can be earned.
Proportion of total compensation The performance targets relate to the companys main Marjorie Scardino drivers of business performance at both the corporate 21% 21% 58% and operating company level.
Performance is measured David Bell separately for each item.
26% 26% 48% Although at the date of publication of this report no Rona Fairhead decisions had been made, for 2004 the performance 26% 26% 48% Peter Jovanovich measures for Pearson plc are likely to be drawn from 26% 26% 48% those in previous years, namely growth in underlying John Makinson sales and adjusted earnings per share, operating cash 33% 23% 44% conversion and working capital as a ratio to sales, and return on invested capital.
For subsequent years, the Current base salary and other emoluments measures will be set at the time.
Target annual incentives with maximum bonus share matching Policy level expected values for long-term incentives Following the committees review of executive remuneration and the increase in annual bonus In practice, because the commercial circumstances of opportunities described to shareholders in the 2003 the business meant that annual bonuses were report, for 2004 the target annual bonus opportunity signicantly below target and long-term incentive for executive directors and other members of the awards were well below policy levels, for 2003 the Pearson Management Committee is 75% of salary.
position was as follows: Individuals may receive up to twice their target bonus i. e. a maximum of 150% of salary Proportion of total compensation based on performance in excess of target.
Marjorie Scardino 49% 21% 30% The committee may award individual discretionary David Bell bonuses.
46% 20% 34% Details of actual pay-outs for 2003, which averaged Rona Fairhead 31% of salary, are set out in table 1 and the notes on 46% 20% 34% page 62 of this report.
Peter Jovanovich 52% 21% 27% The committee will continue to review the bonus plans John Makinson on an annual basis and to revise the bonus limits and 59% 16% 25% targets in light of the current conditions.
2003 base salary and other emoluments In the UK, bonuses do not form part of pensionable 2003 annual incentives with maximum bonus share matching earnings.
In the US, bonuses up to 50% of base salary 2003 expected values for long-term incentives are pensionable under the supplemental executive retirement plan, consistent with US market practice.
The differences in the proportions in each case also reect the differences in the benefit packages of the Bonus share matching individual directors consistent with the companys policy The company encourages executive directors and other on other emoluments set out below.
senior executives to hold Pearson shares.
The committee will continue to review the mix of The annual bonus share matching plan permits xed and performance-linked remuneration on an executive directors and senior executives around the annual basis consistent with its overall philosophy.
company to invest up to 50% of any after tax annual bonus in Pearson shares.
If these shares are held and Base salary the companys adjusted earnings per share increase Our policy is that the base salaries of the executive in real terms by at least 3% per annum, the company will directors should be competitive with those of directors match them on a gross basis of one share for every two and executives in similar positions in comparable held after three years, and another one for two originally companies.
We use a range of companies of comparable held i. e. a total of one-for-one after five years.
This size and global reach in different sectors including the measure of performance is consistent with the test of media sector in the UK and selected media companies in company performance used in the executive option plan.
North America to make this comparison.
We use these companies because they represent the wider executive Real growth is measured against the UK Governments talent pool from which we might expect to recruit Index of Retail Prices All Items.
We chose to test our externally and the pay market to which we might be earnings per share growth against UK ination over vulnerable if our salaries were not competitive.
three and five years to measure the companys financial progress over the period to which the entitlement to Our policy is to review salaries annually.
Other emoluments It is the companys policy that its benefit programmes should be competitive in the context of the local labour 58 Report on directors remuneration continued Long-term incentives The vesting of restricted stock is normally dependent Executive directors, senior and other executives and on the satisfaction of a stretching corporate managers are eligible to participate in Pearsons performance target as determined by the committee long-term incentive plan introduced in 2001.
Restricted stock may be granted consists of two parts: stock options and or restricted without performance conditions to satisfy recruitment stock.
The aim is to give the committee a range and retention objectives.
Details of the performance of tools with which to link corporate performance to periods, measures and targets for outstanding restricted managements long-term reward in a exible way.
stock awards are set out in the notes to table 4 on The principles underlying it are as follows: pages 65 and 66 of this report.
the committee uses an accepted economic valuation For 2004, awards made under the long-term incentive model to determine the impact of any performance plan will be in the form of restricted stock although, at conditions and calculate the relative value of both the date of publication of this report, no decisions had stock options and restricted stock: been made on the amount of stock to be awarded or the terms that might apply.
based on these values, the committee establishes guidelines each year for the expected value of awards All-employee share plans i. e. their net present value after taking into account all Executive directors are eligible to participate in the the conditions and in particular, the probability that companys all-employee share plans on the same any performance conditions will be met: terms as other employees.
These plans comprise the maximum expected value of awards for executive share acquisition programmes in the UK and the US.
directors is based on an assessment of market These plans operate within specic tax legislation practice for comparable companies.
Current policy is including a requirement to finance acquisition of shares for annual long-term incentive awards with maximum using the proceeds of a monthly savings contract and expected values of 300% of salary for the CEO and the acquisition of shares under these plans is not 200% of salary for the other executive directors.
subject to the satisfaction of a performance target.
Details of actual awards for 2003 which were below these maximum policy levels are set out in table 4 and Shareholding policy notes on pages 64 to 66 of this report: As previously noted, in line with the policy of encouraging widespread employee ownership, the no more than 10% of Pearson equity will be issued, company encourages executive directors to build up a or be capable of being issued, under all Pearsons substantial shareholding in the company.
Although, in share plans in any 10-year period commencing in view of the volatility of the stock market, we do not think January 1997: it is appropriate to specify a particular relationship of awards of restricted stock are satisfied using shareholding to salary, we describe separately here existing shares.
both the number of shares that the executive directors and the chairman hold and the value expressed as a Our stock option grant performance test is designed to percentage of base salary.
The current value of holdings provide a direct link between the amount of equity based on the middle market value of Pearson shares allocated to option grants and the companys financial of 620p on 27 February 2004 against the base salary set progress.
out in this report is as follows: Within the 10% limit on the issue of new equity, up Number Value % of to 1.5% may be placed under option in any year.
of shares base salary No options may be granted unless our adjusted Dennis Stevenson 163,268 368% earnings per share increase in real terms by at least 3% per annum over the three-year period prior to grant.
Marjorie Scardino 93,733 93% Grants may be made at the maximum level only if real David Bell 56,492 97% earnings per share growth exceeds 3% per annum by a substantial margin.
Rona Fairhead 9,622 16% Real growth is measured against the UK Governments Peter Jovanovich 56,450 66% Index of Retail Prices All Items.
John Makinson 39,214 54% Having consulted institutional investors, we chose a pre-grant performance condition because we operate in a global environment where pre-exercise performance conditions are not common.
Accordingly, there are no further performance conditions governing the exercise of options.
Earnings per share growth was chosen as the most appropriate measure of our ability to fund the issue of new equity and we chose to test our earnings per share growth against UK ination over three years to ensure that option funding is is released only when the real value of shareholders earnings has increased over a sustained period.
59 Service agreements In the case of Peter Jovanovich, his service Executive directors have rolling service agreements with agreement provides for compensation on termination one or more group companies.
Other than by of employment by the company without cause of termination in accordance with the terms of these 200% of annual salary plus target bonus reecting agreements, employment continuesuntil retirement.
US employment practice and the terms agreed with him in October 2000 before hisappointment as a director of In accordance with policy, with the exception of the company.
Peter Jovanovich, all executive directors have service agreements under which the company may terminate In 2003, the chairman of the board wrote to institutional these agreements by giving 12 months notice and investors on the matter of Peter Jovanovichs severance which specify the compensation payable by way of terms.
He said that we were completely supportive of liquidated damages in circumstances where the 12 months being the longest period of notice in company terminates the agreements without notice or directors contracts.
We intend that after a further cause.
We feel that these notice periods and provisions period this arrangement will fall in line with those for for liquidated damages are adequate, but not excessive, the other executive directors.
Discussions with compensation for loss of ofce.
PeterJovanovich have been held up by his absence on ill-health grounds, but will resume on his return.
We summarise the agreements as follows: Compensation on termination by the company Name Date of agreement Notice periods without notice or cause Dennis Stevenson 13 May 1997 six months from the 100% of salary at director: 12 months the date of termination from the company Marjorie Scardino 27 February 2004 six months from the 100% of annual salary at director: 12 months the date of termination, from the company the annual cost of pension and all other benets and 50% of potential bonus David Bell 15 March 1996 six months from the 100% of annual salary at director: 12 months the date of termination, from the company the annual cost of pension and all other benets and 50% of potential bonus Rona Fairhead 24 January 2003 six months from the 100% of annual salary at director: 12 months the date of termination, from the company the annual cost of pension and all other benets and 50% of potential bonus Peter Jovanovich 9 October 2000 Employment may be 200% of annual salary terminated by either party and target bonus at any time, subject to three months notice from the director in the case of voluntary resignation John Makinson 24 January 2003 six months from the 100% of annual salary at director: 12 months the date of termination, from the company the annual cost of pension and all other benets and 50% of potential bonus 60 Report on directors remuneration continued Retirement benets Pensions in payment under the UK Plan are guaranteed to We describe in turn the retirement benets for each of increase each year at 5% or the increase in the Index of the executive directors.
Details of directors pension Retail Prices, if lower.
arrangements are set out in table 2 on pages 62 and 63 On death in service before normal retirement age, of this report.
a pension will be paid to the spouse, or in the absence of a spouse to a financial dependant nominated by Marjorie Scardino the member.
The pension will be one-third of annual Marjorie Scardino has both dened benefit and base salary.
On death after leaving service but before retirement, The Pearson Inc. Pension Plan the US Plan is an a pension of 50% of the deferred pension will be payable approved dened benefit plan providing a lump sum to the spouse or nominated financial dependant.
convertible to a pension on retirement.
The lump sum accrued at 6% of capped compensation, but accruals On death in retirement, the pension payable is 60% of of benefit ceased on 31 December 2001. the directors pension ignoring any pension commuted for a lump sum at retirement.
The US Plan has a normal retirement age of 65.
Early retirement is possible with a reduced pension for Childrens pensions may also be payable to early payment.
The US Plan does not guarantee any increases to the Rona Fairhead pension once it comes into payment.
Rona Fairhead is a member of the Final Pay Section of The US Plan also provides a spouses pension on the UK Plan.
Her pensionable salary is restricted to the death in service and the option of a death in retirement earnings cap introduced by the Finance Act 1989. pension by reducing the members pension.
The UK Plan provides her with a pension that accrues at one-thirtieth of the earnings cap for each year of service.
The dened contribution arrangements are an approved 401 k plan in the US and an unfunded unapproved In addition, the company contributes into a Funded dened contribution plan.
In addition, from 2004 a Unapproved Retirement Benets Scheme FURBS.
funded dened contribution plan to be approved by the The UK Plan has a normal retirement age of 62.
UK Inland Revenue as a corresponding scheme replaces Early retirement after age 50 is possible, with company part of the unfunded plan.
consent, and on a pension from the plan that is scaled The account balance of the unfunded unapproved down to reect the shorter period of service completed.
dened contribution plan is determined by reference to If retiring before age 60, the pension will be further the value of a notional cash account which increases reduced by an actuarial factor to reect the longer period annually by a specified notional interest rate.
From over which it is expected to be paid.
2004, this plan gives Marjorie Scardino the opportunity Pensions in payment under the UK Plan are guaranteed to to convert a proportion of this notional cash account increase each year at 5% or the increase in the Index of into a notional share account reecting the value of a Retail Prices, if lower.
number of Pearson ordinary shares.
The number of shares in the notional share account is determined by Under the companys FURBS arrangements, early reference to the market value of Pearson shares at the retirement is possible with company consent from age date of conversion.
On 1 March 2004, Marjorie Scardino 50 onwards.
The benefit payable will be the amount will convert $1.2m of the value of the notional cash of the members fund at the relevant date.
account into notional Pearson shares.
The number of On death before normal retirement age, a pension from notional shares will be determined by reference to the the UK Plan will be paid to the spouse, or in the absence middle market value of Pearson shares on that date.
of a spouse to a financial dependant nominated by the At retirement, the account balances of the dened member.
The pension will be one-third of the earnings contribution arrangements will be used to provide cap at the time of death.
Benets under the notional share account can On death after leaving service but before retirement, a be satisfied by the transfer of Pearson shares.
pension of 50% of the deferred pension will be payable In the event of death before retirement, the account to the spouse or nominated financial dependant.
balances in the dened contribution arrangements will On death in retirement, the pension payable is 60% of be used to provide benets for dependants.
the directors pension ignoring any pension commuted for a lump sum at retirement.
David Bell David Bell is a member of the Final Pay Section of the Childrens pensions may also be payable to Pearson Group Pension Plan the UK Plan.
He is eligible for a pension from the UK Plan of In the event of death before retirement, the proceeds of two-thirds of his final base salary at normal retirement the FURBS account will be used to provide benets age due to his previous service with the Financial Times.
The UK Plan has a normal retirement age of 62.
Peter Jovanovich Early retirement after age 50 is possible with company Peter Jovanovich has both dened benefit and dened consent and on a pension that is scaled down to reect contribution pension arrangements in the US.
the shorter period of service completed.
If retiring before age 60, the pension will be further reduced by an The Pearson Inc. Pension Plan the US Plan is an actuarial factor to reect the longer period over which approved dened benefit plan providing a lump sum it is expected to be paid.
The lump sum accrued at 6% of capped compensation, but accruals of benefit ceased on 31 December 2001.
61 In addition, he participates in an unfunded, unapproved On death in retirement, the pension payable is 60% of Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan the US SERP the directors pension ignoring any pension commuted providing an annual pension accrual of 2% of final for a lump sum at retirement.
average earnings, less benets accrued in the US Plan Childrens pensions may also be payable to and US Social Security.
He ceased to build up additional dependent children.
benets in the US SERP at 31 December 2002.
The dened contribution arrangements are an approved Executive directors non-executive directorships 401 k plan and a funded, unapproved 401 k excess Our policy is that executive directors may, by agreement plan.
For 2003, Peter Jovanovichs pension with the board, serve as non-executives of other arrangements include a new unfunded, unapproved, companies and retain any fees payable for their services.
dened contribution plan as his participation in the US SERP ceased.
Chairmans remuneration Our policy is that the chairmans pay should be set at a The US Plan has a normal retirement age of 65. level that is competitive with those of chairmen in similar Early retirement is possible with a reduced pension for positions in comparable companies.
The US Plan does not guarantee any increases to the pension once it comes into payment.
He is not entitled to an annual bonus, retirement or other benets.
He is eligible to participate in the companys At retirement, the account balances of the dened worldwide save for shares plan on the same terms as all contribution arrangements will be used to provide other eligible employees.
The chairmans salary has remained unchanged The US Plan and the US SERP also provide a spouses since 1999 at 275,000 per year.
He has voluntarily pension on death in service and the option of a death in given up any consideration for awards under the retirement pension by reducing the members pension.
long-term incentive plans that have been developed In the event of death before retirement, the account since then and for which he might have been eligible.
balances in the dened contribution arrangements will During 2003, the committee reviewed his remuneration be used to provide benets for dependants.
with advice from Towers Perrin on practice relating to chairmens remuneration and on the increase in the John Makinson remuneration of chairmen in comparable positions since John Makinson is a member of the Final Pay Section of the last review.
After considering all the circumstances, the UK Plan.
His pensionable salary is restricted to the the committees view was that the current appropriate earnings cap.
total pay level was around 425,000 per year.
The company had been paying contributions into a Having been informed of the committees view, the FURBS on his behalf, but those contributions ceased chairman indicated that he thought it was not on 31 December 2001. appropriate for him to receive an increase of this magnitude in cash a view which the committee During 2002, the company established an Unfunded accepted.
Instead, the committee recommended to the Unapproved Retirement Benets Scheme UURBS for board that the chairmans salary should be increased to John Makinson.
325,000 with effect from 1 January 2004 and that he The UURBS tops up the pensions payable from the should receive a share award of 30,000 shares in 2004.
UK Plan and the closed FURBS to target a pension of This award is linked to the companys share price and will two-thirds of Revalued Base Salary on retirement at not be released to him unless the Pearson share price age 62.
Revalued Base Salary is dened as 450,000 reaches 9.00 within a maximum period of three years.
increased at 1 January each year by reference to the increase in the Index of Retail Prices over the Non-executive directors previous year.
Fees for non-executive directors are determined by the full board having regard to market practice and within The UK Plan has a normal retirement age of 62. the restrictions contained in the companys articles of Early retirement after age 50 is possible, with company association.
Non-executive directors receive no other consent based on a uniform accrual from 1 April 1994. pay or benets other than reimbursement for expenses The pension from the UK Plan, the FURBS and the UURBS incurred in connection with their directorship of the in aggregate will be scaled down to reect the shorter company and do not participate in the companys period of service completed.
If retiring before age 60, equity-based incentive plans.
the pension will be further reduced by an actuarial factor to reect the longer period over which it is expected to Since January 2000, non-executive directors be paid.
have received an annual fee of 35,000 each.
One overseas-based director is paid a supplement of The pension in payment is guaranteed to increase each 7,000 per annum.
The non-executive directors who year at 5% or the increase in the Index of Retail Prices, chair the personnel and audit committees each receive if lower.
an additional fee of 5,000 per annum.
On death in service before normal retirement age, In the case of Patrick Cescau, his fee is paid over to his a pension from the UK Plan, the FURBS and the UURBS in employer.
For those non-executive directors who retain aggregate will be paid to the spouse, or in the absence their fees personally, 10,000 of the total fee, or all of of a spouse to a financial dependant nominated by the the fee in the case of Rana Talwar, is payable in the form member.
The pension will be one-third of Revalued of Pearson shares which the non-executive directors Base Salary.
have committed to retain for the period of their On death after leaving service but before retirement, directorships.
a pension of 50% of the deferred pension will be payable Non-executive directors serve Pearson under letters of to the spouse or nominated financial dependant.
appointment and do not have service contracts.
There is no entitlement to compensation on the termination of their directorships.
62 Report on directors remuneration continued Table 1: Remuneration of the directors Excluding contributions to pension funds and related benets set out in table 2, directors remuneration was as follows: 2003 Salaries 2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 fees Bonus Other Total Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman Dennis Stevenson 275 275 275 275 Executive directors Marjorie Scardino 625 200 54 879 852 852 David Bell 360 115 16 491 487 487 Rona Fairhead appointed 1 June 2002 363 116 14 493 301 496 Peter Jovanovich appointed 1 June 2002 530 156 9 695 570 978 John Makinson 450 127 232 809 855 855 Non-executive directors Terry Burns 35 35 35 35 Patrick Cescau appointed 1 April 2002 35 35 26 26 Reuben Mark 47 47 47 47 Vernon Sankey 40 40 40 40 Rana Talwar 35 35 35 35 Total 2,795 714 325 3,834 3,523 4,126 Total 2002 2,230 1,053 240 3,523 4,126 Includes remuneration for Rona Fairhead and Peter Jovanovich prior to their John Makinson is entitled to a location and market premium in appointment as directors on 1 June 2002. relation to the management of the business of the Penguin Group in the US.
Note 1 For Pearson plc, the 2003 performance measures in the annual bonus plan were growth in underlying sales, growth in Marjorie Scardino, Rona Fairhead, David Bell and John Makinson adjusted earnings per share, trading cash conversion and average have the use of a chauffeur.
working capital as a ratio to sales.
Note 3 No amounts in compensation for loss of ofce and no In the case of Peter Jovanovich and John Makinson, part of their expense allowances chargeable to UK income tax were paid during bonuses also related to the performance of Pearson Education and the year.
For both businesses, the performance Note 4 The following executive directors served as non-executive measures were growth in underlying sales, trading margin, trading directorships elsewhere and received fees as follows: Marjorie cash conversion and average working capital as a ratio to sales.
Scardino Nokia Corporation 1100,000 : David Bell VITEC Group Note 2 Other emoluments include companycar and healthcare plc 27,500 : Rona Fairhead Harvard Business School Publishing benets and, in the case of Marjorie Scardino, include 37,030 in nil : John Makinson George Weston Limited C$59,750.
Table 2: Directors pensions Transfer Increase in value Increase accrued of increase In accrued Accrued Transfer Transfer Increase in pension in accrued pension over pension at value at value at transfer over the pension at Age at the period 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 value period 31 Dec 03 1 2 31 Dec 03 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Marjorie Scardino 56 0.5 4.0 32.0 30.2 1.8 0.6 4.5 David Bell 57 36.9 216.0 1,965.7 2,805.7 822.0 31.9 396.0 Rona Fairhead 42 3.3 7.3 19.9 44.2 19.5 3.2 14.6 Peter Jovanovich 54 6.8 61.6 392.5 442.3 49.8 8.7 62.5 John Makinson 49 35.0 132.2 648.0 1,189.2 536.3 32.3 285.5 Net of ination Less directors contributions 63 Table 2: Directors pensions continued Other pension costs to the Other company pension over the related period benets 3 4 000 000 Marjorie Scardino 474.8 29.4 David Bell Rona Fairhead 94.4 Peter Jovanovich 270.0 2.8 John Makinson 4.2 Note 1 The accrued pension at 31 December 2003 is that which Note 3 This column comprises pension supplements for UK benets.
would become payable from normal retirement age if the member For US benets it includes companycontributions to funded dened left service at 31 December 2003.
For Marjorie Scardino it relates contribution plans and notional contributions to unfunded dened only to the pension from the US Plan and the impact is negative contribution plans.
The notional accumulated value of the unfunded because of exchange rate changes over the year.
For David Bell and dened contribution plans is calculated by reference to US prime Rona Fairhead it relates to the pension payable from the UK Plan.
For John Makinson it relates to the pension from the UK Plan, the Note 4 This column comprises life cover and long-term disability FURBS and the UURBS in aggregate.
For Peter Jovanovich it relates insurance not provided by the retirement plans.
to the pension from the US Plan and the US SERP and the increase is negative because of exchange rate changes over the year.
Note 2 The UK transfer values at 31 December 2003 are calculated using the assumptions for cash equivalents payable from the UK Plan and are based on the accrued pension at that date.
For the US SERP, transfer values are calculated using a discount rate equivalent to current US government long-term bond yields.
The US Plan is a lump sum plan and the accrued balance is shown.
Table 3: Interests of directors Ordinary Ordinary shares at shares at 1 Jan 03 31 Dec 03 Dennis Stevenson 161,894 163,268 Marjorie Scardino 86,121 93,733 David Bell 50,939 56,492 Terry Burns 1,712 3,133 Patrick Cescau Rona Fairhead 560 9,622 Peter Jovanovich 54,986 56,450 John Makinson 29,333 39,214 Reuben Mark 11,837 13,561 Vernon Sankey 1,666 2,992 Rana Talwar 5,935 4,346 Note 1 Ordinary shares includes both ordinary shares listed on the Note 3 At 31 December 2003, Marjorie Scardino, John Makinson London Stock Exchange and American Depositary Receipts ADRs and David Bell each held 1,000 shares in Recoletos Grupo fide listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The gures include both Comunicacin S. A. Dennis Stevenson held 8,660 shares.
John shares and ADRs acquired by individuals under the annual bonus Makinson held 1,000 shares in Interactive Data Corporation.
Note 4 With effect from 1 March 2004, Marjorie Scardino will be Note 2 Executive directors of the company, as possible beneciaries, deemed to be interested in a further number of shares under her are also deemed to be interested in the Pearson Employee Share unfunded pension arrangement described on page 60 of this report.
Trust and the Pearson Employee Share Ownership Trust, the trustees Note 5 The register of directors interests which is open to of which held 206,769 and 7,371,290 Pearson ordinary shares inspection during normal ofce hours contains full details of of 25p each respectively at 31 December 2003 and also at directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for shares.
The 27 February 2004. market price on 31 December 2003 was 622p per share and the range during the year was 429.5p to 680p.
Awardslapsed Since the earnings per share target for 1998 to 2003 was not met, the annual bonus share matching plan awards Note 2 The number of shares shown represents the maximum made in 1999 and the long-term incentive plan shares awarded on number of shares that may vest, subject to any performance 19 November 2002 lapsed.
Marjorie Scardino, David Bell, Peter Jovanovich and John Makinson Note 3 No variations to the terms and conditions of plan interests held awards under these plan.
Details of these awards are set out in were made during the year.
table 4 and itemised as b and c on pages 64 and 65 of this report.
Note 4 Restricted shares designated as: a reward plan: b annual Awards vested and held Pearson Equity Incentives awarded in bonus share matching plan: and c long-term incentive plan: and 1999 under the reward plan vested on 8 June 2002.
Following where shares have vested and are held pending release.
vesting, the shares remain subject to a two-year retention period and Each plan is described below in relation to its status during the year will be released in 2004.
Marjorie Scardino, David Bell, Peter i. e. whether awards have been released or lapsed, have vested and Jovanovich and John Makinson hold PEIs under this plan.
Details of are held, are outstanding or were granted.
these awards are set out in table 4 and itemised as a on pages 64 and 65 of this report.
Awards released The annual bonus share matching plan permits executive directors and senior executives around the Company to Awards outstanding Outstanding awards from 2000, 2001 and invest up to 50% of any after tax annual bonus in Pearson shares.
If 2002 under the annual bonus share matching plan for Marjorie these shares are held and the companys adjusted earnings per Scardino, David Bell, Rona Fairhead, Peter Jovanovich and John share increase in real terms by at least 3% per annum, the company Makinson are set out in table 4 and itemised as b on pages 64 will match them on a gross basis of one share for every two held after and 65 of this report.
These shares will vest subject to the real three years, and another one for two originally held i. e. a total of one growth in earnings per share targets being met for the relevant three for one after five years.
For the award made on 25 June 1998, since or five year periods.
the real growth in earnings per share target for the period 1997 Outstanding awards from 2001 and 2002 under the long-term to 2002 was not met, participants did not become entitled to the incentive plan for Marjorie Scardino, David Bell, Rona Fairhead, second one-for-two matching shares and these awards lapsed.
Peter Jovanovich and John Makinson are set out in table 4 and Participants were, however, already entitled to the first one-for-two itemised as c on pages 64 and 65 of this report.
matching shares based on 1997 to 2000 performance and these shares were released on 27 June 2003.
No consideration was payable by participants for these shares.
Marjorie Scardino and John Makinson held shares under this plan.
Details of these awards are set out in table 4 and itemised as b on pages 64 and 65 of this report.
66 Report on directors remuneration continued The vesting of restricted stock awards under the long-term incentive The long-term incentive plan shares awarded to Rona Fairhead on 8 plan made in 2001 was related to free cash ow per share April 2002 will vest on 8 October 2004, being three years from the performance over the period 2001 to 2003 consistent with the date of her appointment, in accordance with the terms agreed with performance measure used in relation to vesting of restricted stock her when she joined the company.
under the previous reward plan.
The committee considered that The long-term incentive plan shares awarded on 16 December 2002 free cash ow was the most appropriate performance measure to will vest in tranches.
The first tranche of shares will vest on 28 June determine the vesting of restricted shares at the time because the 2005.
The second, third, fourth and fifth tranches will vest no earlier cash the businesses generate provided a transparent and accurate than 28 June 2005 subject to the Pearson share price reaching measure of Pearsons achievements and was recognised by 9, 11, 13 and 18 respectively for a period of 20 consecutive shareholders as a significant driver of value.
This target is met if the business days prior to 28 June 2009. companys cumulative free cash ow per share for the three financial years of the performance period exceeds the target set by the Awards granted The annual bonus share matching plan shares committee for growth over the free cash ow per share for the awarded on 17 April 2003 will vest in full on 17 April 2008 if the financial year prior to the start of the period free cash ow being companys adjusted earnings per share increase in real terms by at dened as our operating cash ow as stated in each years accounts least 3% per annum over the period 2002 to 2007.
Half this number less tax liabilities on operating activities and tax paid.
of shares will vest on 17 April 2006 if the companys adjusted earnings per share increase in real terms by at least 3% per annum The target for all of the shares awarded to vest was cumulative free over the period 2002 to 2005.
The market price of the shares on cash ow per share of 116.9p and the threshold for 50% of the thedate of the award was 541p.
The latest vesting date of this award shares to vest was 95.9p.
These represented compound annual is 17 April 2008.
David Bell, Rona Fairhead and John Makinson hold growth rates over free cash ow per share of 23.0p in 2000 shares under this plan.
Details of these awards are set out in table 4 equivalent to 28.8% and 17.4%.
At the year-end, there was an and itemised as b on pages 64 and 65 of this report.
outstanding receivable due from the TSA contract in 2002.
The committee has deemed this to be an exceptional situation The long-term incentive plan shares awarded on 26 September 2003 outside the control of the participants concerned and intends that will vest in tranches as set out in the table below.
The first tranche of the vesting of shares be triggered by the actual reported FCF per shares shown in A will vest on 26 September 2006.
The second, third, share over the period 2001 through 2003 plus the FCF per share that fourth and fifth tranches shown in B, C, D and E will vest no earlier would have derived from the TSA cash had it been received in 2003. than 26 September 2006 subject to the Pearson share price reaching Any vesting would be triggered in May 2004 the third anniversary of 9, 11, 13 and 18 respectively for a period of 20 consecutive the award or after the cash is actually received in 2004, whichever business days prior to 26 September 2010.
Although their value was is the later.
If no, or insufficient, TSA cash is received in 2004, the below policy levels, the committee considered that these awards and awards will lapse in their entirety.
stretching share price targets, which focus on the restoration of shareholder value, provide meaningful incentives to the executives A participant may call for three-quarters of the shares that vest within concerned while recognising the long-term interests of shareholders.
six months of the vesting date.
However, the remaining one-quarter The market price of the shares on the date of the award was 582p.
of the shares that vest may be called within six months of the second The latest vesting date of this award is 26 September 2010. anniversary of the vesting date but only if the participant has not disposed of any shares in the first three-quarters, other than those that may be released in order to satisfy personal tax liabilities.
Note 2 No variations to the terms and conditions of share options were made during the year.
Note 3 No share options were exercised during the year.
Note 4 For outstanding options, the market price of Pearson shares during the year ranged between 429.5p and 680p.
Note 5 Shares under option are designated as: a executive: b worldwide save for shares: c premium priced: and d long-term incentive: and where options are exercisable.
69 a Executive The plans under which these options were granted In addition, for options to be exercisable, the companys adjusted were replaced with the introduction of the Long-Term Incentive Plan earnings per share have to increase in real terms by at least 3% per in 2001.
No executive options have been granted to the directors annum over the three-year period prior to exercise.
Real growth is since 1998 and the terms set out below relate to options already measured against the UK Governments Index of Retail Prices granted that remain outstanding.
These targets for the three-year periods 1998 to 2001, 1999 to 2002 and 2000 to 2003 were not met.
Subject to any performance condition being met, executive options become exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of grant and Marjorie Scardino, David Bell, Peter Jovanovich and John Makinson lapse if they remain unexercised at the tenth.
Options granted prior hold PPOs under this plan.
Details of these awards are set out in to 1996 are not subject to performance conditions representing table 5 and itemised as c on pages 67 and 68 of this report.
market best practice at that time.
d Long-term incentive Options granted in 2001 were based on preThe exercise of options granted since 1996 is subject to a real grant earnings per share growth of 75% against a target of 16.6% increase in the companys adjusted earnings per share over any over the period 1997 to 2000 and are not subject to further three-year period prior to exercise.
This measure of performance performance conditions on exercise.
represented market best practice and was in accordance with Long-term incentive options granted on 9 May 2001 become institutional investors guidelines for option plans of that period.
exercisable in tranches on the first, second, third and fourth Real growth is measured against the UK Governments Index of anniversary of the date of grant and lapse if they remain unexercised Retail Prices All Items.
The fourth tranche lapses if any of the options in the first, second or third tranche are exercised prior to the fourth Marjorie Scardino, David Bell, Peter Jovanovich and John Makinson anniversary of the date of grant.
hold options under this plan.
Details of these awards are set out in table 5 and itemised as a on pages 67 and 68 of this report.
Long-term incentive options granted on 1 November 2001 become exercisable in tranches on the first, second and third anniversary of b Worldwide save for shares The acquisition of shares under the the date of grant and lapse if they remain unexercised at the tenth.
worldwide save for shares plan is not subject to the satisfaction of a performance target.
Details of the option grants under this plan for Marjorie Scardino, David Bell, Rona Fairhead, Peter Jovanovich and John Makinson are Dennis Stevenson, Marjorie Scardino, David Bell and John Makinson set out in table 5 itemised as d on pages 67 and 68 of this report.
Detailsofthese holdings are set out in table 5 and itemised as b on pages 67 and 68 of this report.
In addition, Marjorie Scardino and Peter Jovanovich both contribute US$1,000 per month the maximum allowed to the US employee cPremium priced The plan under which these options were stock purchase plan.
The terms of this plan allow participants to granted was replaced with the introduction of the Long-Term make monthly contributions for one year and to acquire shares at the Incentive Plan in 2001.
No premium priced options have been end of that period at a price that is the lower of the market price at granted to the directors since 1999 and the terms set out below the beginning or the end of the period, both less 15%.
Based on the relate to options already granted that remain outstanding.
market price at the start of the period, Marjorie Scardino and Peter Subject to the performance conditions being met, Premium Priced Jovanovich would have the right to acquire 1,484 American Options PPOs become exercisable on the third anniversary of the Depositary Receipts.
date of grant and lapse if they remain unexercised at the tenth.
Reuben Mark, Director PPOs were granted in three tranches.
For these to become 27 February 2004 exercisable, the Pearson share price has to stay above the option price for 20 consecutive days within three, five and seven years respectively.
The share price targets for the three-and five-year tranches of PPOs granted in 1999 were met in 2000.
The share price target for the three-year tranche of PPOs granted in 2000 were not met in 2003 and the options lapsed.
