10 n w o r u o 11 g n i w o r G s t e k r a m s r i d e h n t n a i s r r e b d a t e l 12 Were proud owners of some of the nest names in publishing.
Over many years theyve earned the trust of their readers and become marks of quality, accuracy and insight.
They also stand for a special way of doing things from the FTs perspective on the world of business, to Penguins record for uncovering new writing talent, to Pearson Educations unique blend of textbooks and online services.
First on campus Our higher education publishing imprints Pearson Prentice Hall, Pearson Addison-Wesley, Pearson Longman, Pearson Allyn and Bacon and Pearson Benjamin Cummings are famous with professors and students alike.
Combined they make us the number one higher education publisher in the US, producing more than 2,500 new titles and programmes every year.
Many of our college authors have become international stars in their own right.
Over the past 16 years, Neil Campbells textbooks have helped more than four million students learn biology thats two-thirds of all the college biology students in America.
And since the 1960s, Philip Kotler has taught generations of business students to focus on their customers through his book Marketing Management, The Penguin that ew A ightless bird which has been thebrainchild of Penguin founder Allen Lanes translated into secretary is the only book publishing brand 23 languages.
recognised worldwide and one of the most famous names in the media industry.
Penguin is today the mark of quality new writing and the denitive classics of literature.
So much so that when Terry Waite was held hostage for four years in war-torn Beirut, he asked his captor for some good books to read by sketching a Penguin.
Classics for the masses Penguin founder Allen Lanes mission was to bring great literature to a much wider reading public.
The first Penguin titles sold for sixpence the price of a packet of cigarettes.
For nearly 70 years, thePenguin Classics have been the denitive editions of classic literature for both students and general readers.
In 2003 we began our relaunch of the Penguin Classics with new content and a fresh design, boosted by a revival of interest in the classics thanks to Oprah Winfreys new classics book club in the US and the search for the UKs most popular books in the BBCs Big Read.
45 of the UK publics favourite 100 titles were Penguins.
u e r a o s - e s s d e n n i s a u b t r S u o f o l l A 13 The ship that launched...
In 1755, 31 years after Thomas Longman founded the imprint bearing his name, he published the worlds first comprehensive English dictionary.
Almost three centuries on, the famous Longman ship has become the mark of quality in English language teaching all over the world.
Today more than 40 million people are learning English as a second language with a Longman book or online study programme.
On comprend mieux le monde travers lconomie Since its launch nearly 100 years ago, Les Echos has become Frances leading business newspaper, read by more than 650,000 business leaders and decision makers every day.
Last year Les Echos unveiled a new look with a new format, new content including an Entreprises et Marchs section based on the FTs Companies and Markets and a fresher approach to editorial.
In the months after the relaunch, Les Echos circulation was up 4% in a declining French newspaper market.
Pink is perkier The FT has become much more than the world-famous newspaper: it is also a trusted brand for financial information, business publishing and new ventures.
49 of the worlds 50 largest financial institutions rely on essential pricing information from FT Interactive Data, part of our Interactive Data Corporation, to value their funds.
Business students and professionals look to FT Prentice Hall, a joint venture between the FT and our Higher Education publishing business, for the best books on management, finance and business.
And Germanys Chancellor is just one of 92,000 readers of FT Deutschland, the first non-English language newspaper to carry the FT name.
The fundamentals of learning Around one in three elementary school children in the US learn the basics of reading, writing and mathematics with the help of a Pearson Scott Foresman textbook.
From its humble beginnings as a publisher of high school Latin in 1889, generations of Americans have learned to read with our famous Dick and Jane stories.
Today Pearson Scott Foresman is the worlds premier elementary school publisher, with leading programmes in the key subjects of reading, mathematics, social studies, and science.
Success reads success The Financial Times was first published in 1888 as a daily newsletter for directors, brokers, investors and nanciers in the City of London.
Today, with individual editions for the UK, continental Europe, the US and Asia: correspondents in 70 countries: and readers in 140, it is the worlds most international business newspaper.
And with 3.3 million monthly users, the FTs online edition FT. com is the worlds most popular audited business website.
The FTs unique editorial perspective attracts an exclusive, hard-to-reach audience of inuential people in finance, business and politics s.. s e. t c.. i. c. v.. r.. u e.... s.... d. d.... n... o.. a.... r t... n.. p.. e.. t.. n.... o n.. c.... 14 Were constantly re-creating our newspapers, books and online services in some cases every minute of every day.
At the same time, were building their quality and value for the long term.
Last year we invested around 700m in our research and development: improving each one of our businesses by investing in new areas of content, by pushing into new markets and by applying new technology and services to make the publishing more personal and more valuable.
A print run of one Dorling Kindersley, renowned for its unique, beautifully illustrated reference books, is pioneering personal publishing.
In 2003 DK published America 24 7, a photographic collection of a week in America taken from Personal publishing Five years ago, when college more than one million photos professors asked us for textbooks that could be Above: Katie Bradshaw, Cathy submitted online.
DK made tailored to their particular courses, we began to Melnicki, Jeannie Guman, Connie publishing history by offering readers invest in a new model of textbook publishing.
the chance to order a customised book Our custom publishing business builds course jacket, complete with their own materials to order around an individual professors favourite photograph.
The typical book includes chapters from our conventional textbooks: the course agenda, lecture notes and assignments for Stars of page and screen In 2003 we extended the power that particular class: and selected articles from of the Penguin brand to the screen when we launched newspapers, magazines and academic journals.
It commissions factual and This special way of delivering our content has childrens programming based on Penguin and grown five-fold in five years to top $100m DK books.
Current programmes include Backyard in sales in 2003.
Science, a 52-part live-action childrens series, and The Way Things Work, a 26-part animated series and a Gold World Award winner for best childrens programme at the New York Festivals Television Programming and Promotion Awards.
Have it your way Our expansion of the Financial Times around the world and online has transformed the FT into a 24-hour global news service.
FT. com, the newspapers internet edition, has some 3.3 million unique monthly users and in 2002 we began converting them into paying customers by launching a range of subscription services.
Today 74,000 people subscribe for real-time and customised services such as live Lex notes throughout the day, personalised news alerts and tools to track their investments.. w w... e... n o.... n. r. i.. g.. g.. n -.. i. t. e s.. e.. v.. m n.. i.. e o.. r.. e. H. W 15 Scoring in testing Our school Perfect pitch Marca is Spains favourite sports testing business, Pearson newspaper, with a daily readership of more than Educational Measurement, two million.
Today, we are using new media channels to dates back to the 1920s when deliver our news, results and analysis.
During the 2002 EF Lindquist, a professor football world cup over 50,000 subscribers signed up at the University of Iowa, to receive up-to-the-minute news via their mobile phones developed standardised tests to in two weeks.
Since then we have partnered with telecom measure student achievement.
Since then, we have providers in Spain, the UK, Japan, China and other countries been at the forefront of the industry, developing and using to become their ofcial sports content provider.
state-of-the art technologies from optical scanning to complex data management and enterprise application software.
We won $300m of new US testing contracts in 2003 and are applying these skills in new markets including Australia and the UK through our partnership with examination board Edexcel.
Social climbing When Pearson bought Simon & Schusters education businesses back in 1998, we combined two of Americas most famous names in elementary school publishing: Scott Foresman and Learning online More than Silver Burdett Ginn.
Since then, two million college students are we'five been investing to build studying online through a Pearson aleadership position across programme.
We provide professors all key disciplines including with online tools they use to customise reading, math, science and learning materials by combining our music.
In 2003, our new elementary content with their own: conduct online social studies programme swept the assessments: and access a range of market, winning more than half of all resources and communication tools.
At the touch of a button, professors can make their own course available to their students online.
Real time alerts Over the past six years, we'five turned our financial information business IDC from a $140m to an $440m company.
Weve steadily built IDCs base business of providing essential pricing data to financial institutions.
And at the same time, weve invested in buying a series of smaller companies which extend the services that IDC can provide its customers.
The most recent acquisition was Comstock in 2003, which provides real-time data from more than 180 stock exchanges and other sources worldwide.
Measuring up Were applying the skills weve learnt in testing school students to professional customers.
We're part-way through an investment of some 15m in more than 400 Pearson professional testing centres around the world.
Those centres are becoming the destinations for software engineers certifying their IT skills: nurses taking their medical exams: drivers sitting their licence theory test: and aspiring business school students taking the world-famous Graduate Management Admissions Test e l p s o e e p o r u r o e t u h o h t 16 30,000 minds fuel our business: publishers, editors, journalists, designers, educators, marketers, sales people, technology professionals, operations and distributions experts.
Here are just a few who did something special last year.
Left: Richard Tomkins, Below centre: Lucy Warwick-Ching, Business Journalist of the Best Newcomer to Pension and Investment Year Business Journalist of Aon Consulting Awards.
In 2003 the Financial Times won more than 30 awards.
Above: Kate Burgess, National Journalist of the Year Bradford & Bingley Personal Finance Media Awards.
Right: Adrian Michaels and Peter Spiegel, Business and Finance Reporters of the Year British Press Awards for their coverage of US accounting scandals.
Below: FT. com editor Tracey Corrigan far Above left: Martin Wolf, Decade of Excellence right with team members Paul Solman, Award Business Journalist of the Year Awards.
Lisa Rohumaa, Eoin Callan and Emma Above right: Philip Coggan, Fund Management Jacobs.
FT. com was honoured with seven Journalist of the Year State Street Global awards in 2003 including Best Global Advisers Annual Award.
Markets Site Barrons Awards, Media Prize for Subscription Services and Best Consumer Site New Media Age, which described FT. com as a monster of a site.
Right: Chris Marchant, Franco Ziccardi, Gary Francis and Alan Shaw are part of our new distribution team in Rugby in the UK.
Our new state-of-the-art warehouse, shared by Penguin and Pearson Education, opens for business in March 2004.
Right: Gene Smith Left: Susan Petersen Kennedy, from Addison Wesley.
Our Higher Education President of Penguin Group US, business in the US grew faster than the was named the 2004 Matrix Award market for a fifth straight year helped by the Honoree in the Books category.
strength and quality of our sales teams.
These prestigious annual awards recognise exceptional women who have distinguished themselves in the communications eld.
g i w n g n u i h s t o n n e U r e W Walter Bagdzinski Lisa Pascarello Beth Blank 17 Above: Wendy Craven is editor to bestselling author, Philip Kotler, who has published with Pearson Prentice Hall for more than 30 years.
In that time, his classic textbook Marketing Management hassold more than two million Above: John Ridding, Su-Mei Thompson and copies and been translated into 23 languages.
Ien Cheng are part of the team who launched the Asia edition of the Financial Times and www.
ft. com, a Chinese language version of FT. com, in 2003.
Left: Lyn Fraser Australia, Mandy Suhr UK and Mariann Donato and below Marilyn Ducksworth, senior vice president, Corporate Communications US helped Penguin to make publishing history with the publication of The English Roses, the first of five childrens books by Madonna.
This was the biggest simultaneous worldwide release ever in more than 30 languages and 100 countries including Australia, the UK and the US.
When Oprah Winfrey picked John Steinbecks East of Eden for her TV book club, an old classic began to y off the bookstore shelves.
In six months it sold more than 1.5 million copies more than it had sold since publication in 1952 made possible by an extraordinary effort by our production and distribution teams.
Above: Don Redpath, Norman Lidofsky, Julie Shiroishi, Ken Kaye, Hank Cochrane, Richard Adamonis, Mary Margaret Callahan, Ernie Petrillo, Patrick Nolan, Michael Yarmark.
Nancy Dominioni Larry Kennison Gloria Horner Raymond Ward 18 18 Below clockwise from top : Doris Linka, We hold regular international gatherings for Brian Moellering, Helene Dennery, Pascale our people to share best practice and ideas.
Pernet, Antoine Cheret, David Fayerman, This group of Higher Education people from Christian Schneider, Paula Parrish, Andy Peart, across Europe met for an editorial masterclass Janey Webb, Tom Sigel.
on how to grow our local language Higher Education operations.
Left: Rosie Glaisher, publicity director for Penguin Press, led the team behind a huge UK publicity campaign that helped propel Michael Moores Stupid White Men to the top of the bestseller charts.
It has sold more than a million copies and won Book of the Year at the 2003 British Book Awards.
Right: DK is famous around the world for its beautiful design and category killer books.
In 2001 we published the first of a series of major reference works, Animal, which has sold more than a million copies to date.
In 2003 we published Earth and will follow up with four more books over the next three years.
Jonathan Metcalf, publishing director for DKs family reference books, is part of the team making this happen.
Left: Bob Whelan heads our US professional testing business which won $600m of new contracts in 2003.
These include testing learner drivers for the UK's Driving Standards Agency, business school applicants for the Graduate Management Admissions Test and securities professionals for the National Association of Securities Dealers.
Below: Don Kilburn heads our Higher Education custom publishing business.
It has grown from an $18m business to Below: Kathryn Court president and more than $100m in five years and in publisher at Penguin Books US has been 2003 grew by 35%.
editor to J M Coetzee since 1982, when we published his second novel Waiting for the Barbarians.
In 2003, he was awarded The Nobel Prize for Literature.
Richard Loftin and Eugennie Chang 19 Below: Jim Stoddart is the art director behind the 2003 relaunch of the Penguin Classics with new content and a fresh design.
19 Penguin Classics made the top 100 in a UK national poll to nd the publics favourite books, showing that they are just as popular today as they were on their launch in 1936.
Above: Tony Lacey is editor to Penguin author Claire Tomalin.
She won the Whitbread Book of the Year for Samuel Pepys: The Unequalled Self, her biography of Samuel Pepys, which has now sold 330,000 copies, unprecedented for an historical biography.
Left, above and right: In 2003 we launched our new elementary social studies programme and won more than half of all available school adoption opportunities, including a 60% market share in Indiana and Texas.
Left: Penguin editor Pam Dorman spotted the potential of debut author Sue Monk-Kidd.
Her first novel, The Secret Life of Bees, has sold more than two million copies and been on the New York Times bestseller list for more than a year.
Below: Simon Ng, Cynthia Lam and Kenneth Ma from Longman Hong Kong didnt let SARS interfere with their crucial selling time and, in fact, increased their sales by more than 100%.
The team created a range of online sales tools and held seminars for more than 400 teachers.
Above: Publisher Ann Godoff joined Penguin in 2003 bringing more than 30 authors with her.
Her new imprint, the Penguin Press, now has a stable of more than 90 authors and will publish 32 books in 2004.
Aurelio Rivera, Barb Mark Spears, Rowena KathyBretz, Camille Janet Hill, Janell Jones Chris Roy and Lori Watters, Pepe Del Valle Vargas, Steve Kiecker Salerno, Ray Chew and Thom Van der Doef Holloway
