20 p u g n 21 i d n a t S t n e c e d d n a e v i t a p n i u g a m g i, e n v a 22 i For the first time this year weve included a special section on corporate social responsibility in our annual report.
This is not because we have just discovered it.
Weetman Pearson, who led the company more than a century ago, had a reputation as one of the most enlightened employers of his time.
We have tried ever since to set the highest possible standards in the way we treat our people, our customers and the wider world in which we operate.
This section focuses on the progress we are making with all three groups.
More than 30,000 people now work for Pearson in David Bell Director for people 62 countries.
In the past year we have made good progress towards the goal we set ourselves some years ago.
This is to be a brave, imaginative and decent company, a place where people want to work, where they treat people as they want to be treated themselves in short one of the best employers in the world.
It goes without saying that it is our people who create the products we sell.
Their strong sense of responsibility and integrity is at the heart of everything we do and all the products we make.
You see this when you meet our education experts who produce teaching materials, our journalists who report and analyse the world or our editors and publishers who make the most entertaining and informative books.
Pearson could not succeed without their very high standards and a deep-rooted and unswerving commitment to accuracy, independence and learning.
We also want all our external customers investors, authors, readers, teachers, printers, distributors, retailers to judge us by the same high standards.
As the worlds biggest publisher nothing is more important to us than that we meet these standards.
Of course we have a way to go.
But we are making good progress.
Opposite are some highlights of our progress so far and some of our plans for 2004.
We very much welcome comments, observations and suggestions which can be sent to me at david.
David Bell, Director for people r b d e b n o t a m t i S a e w, o d e w l l a n I 23 Our progress 1.
Founding signatory of the UN Global Compact, which sets ethical and environmental standards for the corporate sector.
Completed a thorough review of our environmental impact, and put in place targets for annual progress.
Advised 16,000 suppliers of our commitments and expectations under the UN Global Compact.
Published a Pearson-wide Code of Business Conduct, and set up a regular process to verify compliance.
Implemented a company-wide framework for career appraisals.
Launched a four-year diversity strategy, to ensure that our company reects the societies in which we operate.
Established a programme to support Pearson people who volunteer in their communities including a company award scheme and payroll giving.
Set up a major partnership with US not-for-profit Jumpstart, to encourage talented college students to become teachers and to support disadvantaged pre-schoolchildren.
Named the media sector leader in the Dow Jones World Index for corporate sustainability.
Maintain or improve our ratings in key indices of corporate sustainability.
Introduce business targets and milestones for our diversity strategy.
Work with UK book production companies to develop industry guidelines on labour standards and human rights in the supply chain.
Assess key printers and paper suppliers against UN Global Compact standards.
Continue to invest in scientific research-based education products.
Extend the reach of our management development programmes to more countries and parts of the business.
Reduce energy use in key buildings and review packaging and ofce waste.
Develop strategic community partnership for key markets outside the US.
24 Our products Our most significant social impacts arise LessonLab In 2003 we extended our commitment to directly from our core purpose as an education and teacher professional development when we acquired information company.
Our products play an LessonLab, a pioneer in education research and important part in helping people to learn and get on in technology.
LessonLab was founded by Dr James Stigler, their lives.
director of the Third International Mathematics and In our education business in particular, Science Study, which videotaped and analysed teaching we are developing a growing base of research into practices in more than 1,000 classrooms around the the educational value of our products.
Through LessonLabs software, teachers can apply some examples.
this research base to their own teaching methods.
Learning to read and count We have partnered with More info: www.
com the Waterford Institute, a not-for-profit organisation, to deliver the Waterford Early Reading programme.
Our publishing As the worlds largest publishing This unique computer-based instruction, based upon company, our editorial judgements whether its the a decade of intensive study by top comment and analysis in our newspapers and online educators, adapts to an individual or the authors and stories that we publish can have users learning pace, regardless of abig impact.
Editorial primary language or pre-literacy independence is a central exposure.
Each level provides daily part of our culture and we instructional activities, as well as separate editorial and a library of take-home materials.
It requires just 15 minutes each We are proud that day and students are provided Penguin has long been with immediate feedback to help achampion of free speech direct and motivate them.
and that its founding The programme has been mission was to make formally assessed in schools literature more widely and districts and studies show available.
This goes it is extremely effective in preparing back beyond the 1960s young children to learn to read.
when Penguin published Most notably, the programme brings the first unabridged the lowest performers in a class to version of Lady reading competency and is highly effective in helping Chatterleys Lover and non-English speaking children assimilate the English continues today.
The Financial Times has We have recently launched the Waterford Math and an equally strong reputation Science programme which mirrors the proven approach of for incisive and objective news reporting and analysis.
Our newspapers and online sites are an important More info: www.
com channel for helping to shape the debate on key social issues and have been publishing indices of corporate responsibility and environmental management for Read Together, Talk Together Research shows that a number of years.
For the past 10 years, the FT has children show greater language gains when they actively supported campaigning organisations such as Business participate in the reading experience.
In partnership with in the Community and the International Prince of Wales the US National Center for Learning Disabilities, we have Business Leaders Forum to bring their work to a wider developed Read Together, Talk Together, a reading audience.
The FT has also teamed up with Dorling programme which encourages integrated dialogue Kindersley to publish Everybodys Business, a practical between adult and child.
The programme includes picture handbook that helps managers to put corporate social books designed by Dorling Kindersley, classic childrens responsibility on the mainstream business agenda.
books from Penguin and teacher and parent training Dorling Kindersley has also developed a special materials including videos and prompt cards.
relationship with the United Nations Childrens More info: www.
com Fund UNICEF publishing books to raise awareness of the UNs Convention of the Rights of the Child.
Our recent publication, A Life like Mine, explores the Measuring success For over 30 years, educators in the Rights of the Child through the eyes of 20 children around US have been using our SuccessMaker courseware to the world.
There is an increasing Through our Longman brand, our education business demand for accountability and results reected by is very active in HIV and AIDS awareness.
Since 1997 President Bushs No Child Left Behind education act.
Longman has published a range of books for a spectrum SuccessMaker provides elementary courseware in of age groups which tackle HIV AIDS and the issues reading, arts, maths and English language and bilingual surrounding it in an open and compelling way.
The courseware is aligned The programme includes the Sara series, the product to district and national standards and teachers can of a major research project undertaken by UNICEF on the measure student achievement through reports and empowerment of the girl-child in Africa.
not only address the cultural and economic real-life More info: www.
com successmaker issues that affect adolescents in Africa, but also focus on developing critical life skills.
co. za 25 Our communities We have focused our community Pearson cash charitable giving support around education and literacy.
In 2003 we 03 2.10m invested 2.1m in education-focused community 02 2.80m programmes around the world and gave additional 01 2.39m in-kind support such as book donations, publishing 00 1.79m expertise and staff time.
Our total cash and in-kind 99 1.53m support was more than 6m in 2002.
Pearson cash and in-kind charitable giving Inspiring the next generation of teachers Looking to 02 6.10m address the critical need for pre-school teachers in 01 3.40m low-income communities, Pearson teamed up with the US non-profit group Jumpstart in 2001 to inspire talented Note: Per Cent Club submissions.
2003 numbers to be reported in September 2004. university graduates to join the teaching profession.
The Jumpstart programme pairs college students to work one-to-one with underprivileged pre-schoolers to develop their literacy and social skills.
The Pearson The power of books We have a long association with Book Teacher Fellowship builds on that college experience, Aid, an international development agency that works in providing a structured training programme for Jumpstart partnership with schools and libraries in the developing alumni to become teachers in early learning centres world to make books available to readers of all ages.
serving the most needy children.
Book Aid is also working towards a sustainable solution to the problem of book shortages through a range of Research indicates that children projects including training and networking opportunities who participate in the Jumpstart for edgling African programme show a 17% gain in literacy publishing and bookselling rms.
and language skills compared to their We share the Book Aid vision non-Jumpstart counterparts.
and over the years we have lent financial and in-kind Funded with an initial three-year commitment of support.
In 2003 projects $2.5m, there are now 40 Pearson Teacher Fellows in included an international 15 low-income communities across the US, with reading project based on an additional 30 Fellows due to start the two-year Dorling Kindersleys book A programme in the spring 2004.
Pearson Teacher Fellows Life Like Mine and Pearson receive a stipend, intensive teacher training, ongoing Educations sponsorship to professional development and support, and each Fellow support World Book Day.
In is partnered with a Pearson mentor to provide advice and February 2004 Pufn guidance.
A number of the current Pearson Fellows are published a collection of now teaching in the same centres where they first worked short stories for children, Eating Words for Breakfast, in with the Jumpstart programme, with plans to continue celebration of Book Aids 50th anniversary.
And Pearson employees all around the US are adopting pre-schools so they can help Our employees It is important to us that we encourage Jumpstart and the Pearson Teacher Fellows succeed in and support our employees to be active in their local their goal of preparing these at-risk children for success communities and we are proud of the contribution in school and life.
We do this by providing them with time, money and products.
For example, in the UK, More info: www.
com community we run a payroll giving scheme where employees can make tax-free donations to their favourite charities Spotting new talent in China In 2003 Pearson embarked and we will match these donations up to 500 a year.
on a significant expansion in Asia including the launch Each year we recognise their commitment through of an Asia edition of the FT. Alongside this the FT, in thePearson Community Awards.
In 2003 we received partnership with Beijing University, launched a financial more than 350 applications and awarded six employees journalism training programme.
Four journalists from from around the world with $2,000 each for their the programme will be awarded scholarships from the chosen charity.
Laura Cha Fellowship and placements at the FT ofces in London and Hong Kong.
Left: Carol Leslie, Pearson Education In 2003 we awarded six Pearson Community Awards to employees to recognise outstanding work in their local communities.
Each winner wasawarded $2,000 for their chosen charity, including Carol Leslie for her work with The Therapeutic Nursery, a pre-school programme in New Jersey for children with autism.
26 Our people Our business is about brains and brands so Code of Business Conduct In 2003 we launched our new we rely heavily on the skills and talents of our 30,000 Code of Business Conduct.
A condential hot line allows people.
Last year we conducted an employee survey employees to raise any issue covered in it in complete across Pearson.
The feedback shaped our action plan for privacy.
Each year we will e-mail our employees to last year and heres some of our progress: confirm that they are happy with the way we are operating it.
Any breaches or concerns are followed Performance reviews Weve put in place a framework for up by our group control team and reported to the performance reviews across the entire company and audit committee: trained managers on how to conduct them: Job benets We offer a range of benets tailored to Internal promotion We remain committed to promoting location and weve worked hard to make them even easier internally rather than hiring from outside where thats to understand over 80% of our people can now go possible in fact, over 22% of our senior managers have online to our new My Pay and Benets site.
worked in more than one country, division or function within Pearson.
We introduced career discussions across Management leadership evaluations We have introduced Pearson and relaunched Pearson Partners, a website the Pearson leadership prole which sets out the most which gives details of all the vacancies across the Pearson important attributes for leadership in Pearson.
We use this businesses worldwide: to evaluate the performance and potential of our senior management and aspiring leaders and it forms the basis of Staff roadshows Once a year we run a series of staff our new leadership programme launched in August 2003. roadshows where our management team meet our More than 25% of senior managers have gone through this employees and update them on the business.
in less than five months and by the end of 2004, all our In 2004 we will run these in 50 locations around the world.
senior managers will have attended.
We also post regular messages and announcements on our intranets and Marjorie e-mails everyone through the Functional forums Over 350 of our people have come year with important news.
Staff are encouraged to e-mail together cross-company and cross-region in functional her with their comments and or learning forums to share information and best questions: practice.
These forums have been held in finance, HR, technology, design, marketing, communications and editorial.
We also hold an annual meeting of over 100 of our talented managers across Pearson to listen to their ideas and for them to hear more about the businesses were in.
Diversity and the future Last year we launched a four year diversity programme to make sure diversity is at the centre of everything we do.
We are not in favour of setting specic targets for recruitment, retention or promotion.
But our goal is clear: we want to be at least the best in our industry for diversity.
Our plan falls into three phases: Phase 1 The first phase, now complete, involved a systematic analysis of our workforce by gender, age and ethnicity.
The headline results of this are set out here and we have benchmarked our performance in the key areas of the US and the UK where we operate.
27 Phase 2 In the second phase we are concentrating on Will continue to work with our recruitment agencies to external recruitment and on removing any perceived ensure that the proportion of our entry level recruits obstacles to advancement.
As a result: from diverse backgrounds remains constant or improves year-on-year: We have designed a pilot programme to focus in depth on hidden issues which may be perceived to Will begin focusing on more senior levels and working hinder promotion.
The first focus groups under this with various organisations to encourage more diverse programme will be held in spring 2004: applicants.
We have made it a condition of being on our preferred supplier list that recruitment agencies send us diverse lists of candidates and we are monitoring the performance of each agency: This is how our company looks today: We are tripling the size of our internship programmes Our employees by gender and working hard to increase awareness of them in Female 58% ethnic minority communities.
Working with INROADS Male 42% in the US, and setting up our own programmes in the UK, we plan to offer work experience to at least 60 people this year: The proportion of ethnic minority recruits onto our business graduate training programme in the UK has increased from 12% in 2002 to 50% in 2003: Our employees by age To increase diversity, we are holding special days in keycities in the UK and US to introduce Pearson and 30 or under 26% to encourage applicants.
30 to 50 55% 50 plus 19% Phase 3 The third phase of the plan, which we have already begun, is to focus on the pipeline of people already in the organisation and to make sure that they thrive within Pearson.
To this end we: Have embarked on a programme of management Our employees by ethnicity training from the executive directors downwards: Have instituted training for new recruits and also White 85% for recruiters: Ethnic minority 15% Are building a mentoring programme: Have adjusted Pearsons Senior Leadership Prole to reect this new emphasis: Plan to tie part of the bonus of each senior manager to US and UK only.
diversity from 2005 onwards: Are monitoring the number of women and ethnic minorities who go through our development programmes, and it is our aim that the numbers remain constant or improve year-on-year: 28 The UN Global Compact Human rights: Pearson was a founder signatory of the UN 1.
Businesses should support and respect the Global Compact which sets out worldwide protection of internationally proclaimed human standards for the corporate sector.
The nine rights within their sphere of influence: and principles of the UN Global Compact are: 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
Environment As a business based on ideas, our direct More information on Pearson environmental impacts, environmental impact is limited, but we are committed to targets and commitments are available at: understanding the effect we have and to setting targets www.
htm for managing and reducing our impact.
Reducing our impact Where we do have a more significant Labour standards and human rights Pearson spends impact is in the production and distribution of our books, around 2bn each year with our suppliers across the magazines and newspapers.
These products use paper world.
This places a responsibility on us to encourage and inks and are packaged for transportation around the our supply chain partners to share our commitments world.
We recognise that we must work with the suppliers and respect for human rights.
who provide us with the paper, production services and the distribution capacity we need to get our ideas into the This is not an easy task as all our companies must be hands of our customers.
sensitive to the diverse cultures in which they operate.
Our most visible environmental impact is through our To help clarify our priorities, Pearson became a founder use of paper and was, therefore, a particular priority for signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in 2000. us during 2003.
Following consultation with many of The Global Compact sets out a series of nine principles our paper buyers, paper suppliers and other groups, in the areas of labour standards, human rights and Pearson adopted a policy statement that sets out the environmental management and provides companies guidelines we follow when purchasing paper.
We started with a framework for managing these responsibilities.
a programme of review visits with key suppliers and Pearson interpreted these principles into a series of developed an approach to help us better understand guidelines which we use to assess and report on our the source and origin of the wood used.
this focus, Pearson has become a member of the We recognise that our first responsibility is through the WWF 95 Group, a partnership between businesses businesses we directly own across the world.
In 2001, we and the conservation organisation WWF working together introduced an annual survey of our workforce concerning on the issue of responsible purchasing policy for paper.
labour standards and human rights to ensure that we live As a member of the group, Pearson will have access to up to the commitments in our guidelines.
The 2003 information and practical guidance on responsible paper survey covers 83 business operations in 37 countries.
As a result, we are confident that we meet our guidelines with regard to equal opportunities, employment Environment Policy Our Environment Policy was adopted conditions, dignity at work, fair pay and human rights.
It was fully rewritten in 2000 and will be further Last year, we extended our survey to include our major reviewed this year to reect our increased focus on supply subcontractors.
We prepared the ground in 2002 by chain issues.
The Pearson Environmental Review 2003 is consulting with 16,000 of our suppliers around the world, published on the company website.
This now covers 95 to advise them of the commitments we made under the of our buildings up from 69 in 2002 and ranges over Global Compact.
As key contracts came up for renewal or 14 countries where we have a significant presence new contracts were negotiated, particularly those relating 12 in 2002.
The environment review covered 85% to paper supply, printing and distribution, we introduced of our workforce 71% in 2002. contractual commitments relating to the Global Compact.
The usage of electricity and gas per employee fell by These commitments are now included in many 4% and per square metre by 8% in 2003, compared to agreements.
This will rise further this year.
We also met our In 2003, we began a programme of supplier visits commitment to remove all halon from buildings in our to discuss our commitments and to review supplier European operations by the end of 2003.
As a pilot, a Pearson team including the air travel was reduced by 17% compared to 2002. executive responsible for environmental issues and others from the Groups production departments visited a number of our printing subcontractors in China.
Businesses should uphold the freedom of 7.
Businesses should support a precautionary association and the effective recognition of the approach to environmental challenges: and right to collective bargaining: and 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and environmental responsibility: and compulsory labour: and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of 5. the effective abolition of child labour: and environmentally friendly technologies 6. eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
The team discussed issues including ethical procedures and code of conduct to ensure they health and safety, fair pay, are of the highest possible standards.
specifically the environmental management as well FT editorial team has reviewed and reissued all its policies as working and living conditions.
and procedures covering journalistic standards of Issues identied through the visits conduct to ensure compliance with PCC guidelines have been highlighted and are and best practice.
being followed up through our commercial relationships.
Rating our performance In 2003 we participated in a Another production team raised range of industry wide performance surveys.
similar issues in a separate visit to printers in India.
Dow Jones rated Pearson as media sector leader for the As well as looking at our second year in both the DJSI World Index for corporate own supply chain, we try to sustainability and the DJSI STOXX index of European play our part in working sustainable investments.
EIRIS the Ethical Investment towards an industry-wide Research Service considered that our environmental commitment.
Pearson, policy and management systems were good but felt that along with other major further improvement in our performance and reporting book publishing was possible.
Pearson was companies in the UK, recognised as a Top 100 company in the Business in is working to further develop industry standards and we Community CR Index.
will seek to replicate such a scheme in the US.
Pearson submitted a Communication on Progress In addition to the direct environmental commitments to the UN.
This annual report describes our outlined above we also plan a rolling programme to performance against the nine principles that form assess how our top printers and paper suppliers perform the Global Compact.
against our commitments under the Global Compact.
com community ethics Managing our risks Managing our risks, particularly .
htm reputational risks, is very important to us.
As we reported lastyear, we regularly review our social, environmental How others rated our performance in 2003 and ethical SEE risks as part of our normal risk management processes.
Semi-annually each business Dow Jones DJSI World Index for corporate formally reviews and reports on these risks to our group control function, who provides a regular update on SEE sustainability in media sector: Leader matters, via the audit committee, to the board.
Dow Jones DJSI STOXX Index of European As described, we believe we are proactively managing our SEErisks.
We consider the most important to be sustainable investments in Media sector: Leader compliance with the UN Global Compact both for ourselves and our suppliers, the environmental impact FTSE4 Good: Member of our products and our ethical standards.
Our 2003 risk reviews did not identify any significant Business in the Community CR Index: issues that the Group was not managing.
Top 100 company We pride ourselves on the integrity and quality of our journalistic reporting.
In the light of recent well documented failings in journalistic standards and reporting elsewhere, we paid special attention to our
