49 Directors report The directors are pleased to present their report to Corporate governance shareholders, together with the financial statements Introduction Reecting our support for governance for the year ended 31 December 2003 on pages 70 to 73 reforms, we will implement the new Combined Code and 75 to 112 respectively.
Details of the businesses, this year.
A detailed account of how we comply the development of the Group and its subsidiaries and with its provisions can be found on our website at likely future developments are given on pages 12 to 19 www.
htm, or by and 34 to 40 of this annual report.
Sales and profits of telephoning our company secretarial department on the different sectors and geographical markets are given 020 7010 2257 or 2253. on pages 77 and 78.
Compliance involves modest changes since we already Results and dividend conformed to most of the new Codes provisions.
The profit for the financial year ended 31 December The main changes have been the appointment of a 2003 was 55m 2002: 111m loss.
The loss retained senior independent director: modications to the for the year was 137m 2002: 298m loss and boards committees and their terms of reference: and a has been transferred to reserves.
A final dividend of more formal process for board evaluation including the 14.8p per share is recommended for the year ended chairman and chief executive.
This, together with the interim Under both the existing Combined Code and the dividend already paid, makes a total for the year of revisions enacted this year the three areas where 24.2p 2002: 23.4p.
The final dividend will be paid on explanation is required are the independence of 7 May 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close two of the non-executive directors, Reuben Mark of business on 13 April 2004, the record date.
and Vernon Sankey, the composition of our nomination significant acquisitions and disposals committee and Peter Jovanovichs service contract.
Details of these transactions can be found in notes 25 Each of these are covered below.
Except for these areas and 26 to the accounts on pages 106 to 107. the board believes that we are in compliance with the existing Code.
Transactions with related parties Composition of the board The board consists of the Details of transactions with related parties, which are chairman, Dennis Stevenson, five executive directors reportable under FRS 8 Related party transactions, and five non-executive directors.
Terry Burns has are given in note 30 to the accounts on page 110. been appointed as the senior independent director.
Capital expenditure We are currently in what we hope are the final stages of The analysis of capital expenditure and details of making appointments of new non-executive directors, capital commitments are shown in note 12 to the partly to bring new skills on to the board and partly to accounts on page 93. have board succession plans in place.
Independence of directors Since Reuben Mark 16 years Post balance sheet events and Vernon Sankey 11 years have both been on the There were no significant post balance sheet events.
board for more than the allotted nine years under the new Combined Code, they can be counted as Directors independent directors only if the board deems them to The present members of the board, together with be so.
This we do without hesitation.
Neither wishes to their biographical details, are shown on page 48. stay unless considered independent, and we are quite Details of directors remuneration and interests in clear that their leaving would not be in the shareholders ordinary shares and options of the company are interest.
Reuben Mark, one of the most consistently contained in the report on directors remuneration successful chief executives in the world, has a reputation on pages 55 to 69.
Four directors, Dennis Stevenson, for robust independence and makes a considerable, John Makinson, Reuben Mark and Vernon Sankey will constructively critical, contribution to the Pearson retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General board.
Vernon Sankey is an outstanding, diligent Meeting AGM on 30 April 2004.
All four, being eligible, chairman of our audit committee and also an will offer themselves for re-election.
Details of directors aggressively questioning, thoughtful and vocal director.
service contracts can be found on page 59.
No director wasmaterially interested in any contract of signicance This leaves us in the position of having five independent to the companys business.
directors, five executive directors and Dennis Stevenson, our chairman, who is part time and so is not formally considered independent.
When we have appointed at least one new independent director, as we intend to do this year, independent directors will be in a majority, a situation we intend to maintain.
50 Directors report continued Board meetings The board meets six times a year and at other times as appropriate.
The following table sets out the attendance of our directors at the board and committee meetings during 2003: Audit Treasury Personnel Board committee committee committee meetings meetings meetings meetings maximum 6 maximum 4 maximum 1 maximum 5 Chairman Dennis Stevenson 6 1 Executive directors Marjorie Scardino 6 David Bell 6 Peter Jovanovich 3 Rona Fairhead 6 1 John Makinson 6 Non-executive directors Terry Burns 6 4 5 Reuben Mark 6 4 5 Vernon Sankey 6 4 1 Rana Talwar 6 1 4 and part of 1 Patrick Cescau 6 Peter Jovanovich missed three board meetings due to illness.
The role and business of the board The formal matters Board evaluation At the end of 2003 the board reserved for the boards decision and approval are: the undertook what will become an annual process for companys strategy: acquisitions, disposals and capital evaluating its effectiveness and that of its committees.
expenditure projects above certain thresholds: all The results of this first evaluation are being reviewed guarantees over 10m: treasury policies: the interim in early 2004 and will be reported back to the board.
and final dividends and the financial statements: We also have in place a process for the chairmans borrowing powers: appointments to the board: and the appraisal of the performance of individuals on the appointment and removal of the company secretary.
In 2003, the chief executives performance was appraised by the chairman, reviewed with the The board receives timely, regular and necessary non-executive directors and discussed with the chief management and other information to full its duties.
executive in a meeting of all non-executive directors.
Directors can obtain independent professional advice at During the year the executive directors were evaluated the companys expense in performance of their duties as by the chief executive under the companys standard directors.
All directors have access to the advice and the appraisal mechanism: their performance, and that of the services of the company secretary.
companys major executives, is also reviewed by the In addition to these formal roles, we aim to give the chief executive with the chairman and non-executive non-executive directors access to the senior managers directors as part of an annual succession planning of the business via involvement at both formal and meeting.
We have also established a process for our informal meetings.
In this way we hope that the newly appointed senior independent director to review experience and expertise of the non-executive directors the performance of the chairman, which will begin can be garnered to the benefit of the company.
same time, the non-executive directors will develop The chairmans commitments In line with the an understanding of the abilities of the most senior requirement of the Code, we report that Dennis managers that will help them judge the companys Stevensons commitments have not changed throughout prospects and plans for succession.
Under the new Combined Code he is allowed to remain as chairman of two FTSE 100 companies, and the board is pleased to say that in their view there is no conict of interest or time whatsoever to the disadvantage of the company.
51 Directors training Directors receive an induction The committee provides the board with the means to programme and a range of information about the appraise Pearsons financial management and reporting, company when they join the board: and continuing and to assess the integrity of the Groups accounting updates on that programme through presentations procedures and financial controls.
The Groups internal about the companys operationsatthe board meetings and external auditors have direct access to the committee as well as ongoing information.
We plan to supplement to raise any matter of concern and to report the results the existing directors training programme by making of work directed by the committee.
The committee available to the directorsthe opportunity for additional reports to the full board of Pearson.
The committee visits to operating company divisions and meetings also reviews the objectivity of the external auditors, with local management, as well as to facilitate access to including non-audit services supplied, and ensures externally run courses should a director wish to make that there is an appropriate audit relationship.
The committee met four times during the year with the Executive directors service contracts The board is chief financial officer, head of group control and other strongly supportive of 12 months being the longest members of the senior management team, together with period of notice in directors service contracts.
the external auditors, in attendance.
The committee The contract for Peter Jovanovich, the American head meets privately with the external auditors and the head of our education business, provides two years of group control at least once a year.
severance pay in the event of termination without cause.
ii Personnel committee Reuben Mark chairman, This anomaly arises from the contract being agreed Terry Burns, Rana Talwar.
before he joined the board.
We fully intend to alter this arrangement to fall in line with those for other executive The committee is comprised solely of independent directors.
Discussions with Peter Jovanovich have been non-executive directors and meets at least three held up by his absence on ill-health grounds, but will times a year and on other occasions when resume on his return.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders There is an The committee has responsibility for determining the extensive programme for executive directors and top remuneration and benets packages of the executive managers to meet with institutional shareholders, directors, the chief executives of the principal operating and the non-executive directors meet informally companies and other members of the management with shareholders both before and after the AGM, committee, as well as recommending the chairmans and respond to shareholder queries and requests.
remuneration to the board for its decision.
It also The chairman makes himself available to meet any reviews the companys management development, significant shareholder, as required.
Makinson Cowell diversity and succession plans.
The committee takes reports to the board each year the results of an extensive independent advice from consultants when required.
survey on major shareholders views and each month on No executive director takes part in any discussion changes in market positions and shareholders views.
or decision concerning their own remuneration.
The committee reports to the full board and its report Board committees on directors remuneration, which has been considered The board has established four committees.
Chairmen and adopted by the board, is set out on pages 55 to 69. and members of these committees are appointed by the iii Nomination committee The full board currently acts board on the recommendation where appropriate of as the nomination committee, with Dennis Stevenson the nomination committee and in consultation with each as chairman.
Following the introduction of the new requisite committee chairman.
Combined Code, the board has agreed to review the i Audit committee Vernon Sankey chairman, composition of this committee to ensure that it is made Terry Burns, Reuben Mark.
up of a majority of independent non-executive directors and to put in place terms of reference which clearly set All of the committee members are independent out its authority and duties.
The committees purpose non-executive directors and have significant financial will be to make recommendations to the board on all experience due to the senior positions they hold or held proposed appointments of directors through a formal in other listed or publicly traded companies.
The committee will meet as and when The committee has written terms of reference required.
In accordance with the companys articles which clearly set out its authority and duties, of association, directors are subject to reappointment these can be found on the company website at at the AGM immediately following the date of their www.
With the appointment, and thereafter they must seek re-election issuance in 2003 of the new UK Combined Code, the no more than three years from the date they were last New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Rules, re-elected.
The committee will recommend to the board and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, a revised audit the names of the directors who are to seek re-election committee charter and terms of reference reecting at the AGM.
the new requirements has been approved by the board iv Treasury committee Dennis Stevenson chairman, and implemented with effect from 1 January 2004.
Rona Fairhead, Vernon Sankey, Rana Talwar.
The committee sets the policies for the companys treasury department and reviews its procedures on a regular basis.
The treasury committee schedules one meeting a year and arranges to meet at other times, if necessary.
52 Directors report continued Internal control iii Financial reporting There is a comprehensive The directors are responsible for the Groups system of strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system internal control and have reviewed its effectiveness in with an annual operating plan approved by the board accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Monthly financial information, including They consider that the system of internal control is trading results, balance sheets, cash ow statements and appropriately designed to manage the risk environment indebtedness, are reported against the corresponding facing the Group and to provide reasonable, but not figures for the plan and prior years, with corrective absolute, assurance against material misstatement action outlined by operating company executives as or loss.
Quarterly, Group senior management meet with operating company management to review their They confirm that there is an ongoing process, business and financial performance against budget and embedded in the Groups integrated internal control forecast.
Major business risks relevant to each operating system, allowing for the identication, evaluation and company are reviewed in these meetings.
management of significant business risks, as well as a reporting process to the board.
The board requires iv Treasury management The treasury department operating companies to undertake semi-annual reviews operates within policies approved by the board and to identify new or potentially under-managed risks.
its procedures are reviewed regularly by the treasury The results of these reviews are reported to the board committee.
Major transactions are authorised outside via the audit committee.
This process has been in the department at the requisite level, and there is an place throughout 2003 and up to the date of the appropriate segregation of duties.
Frequent reports are approval of this annual report, and it accords with the made to the chief financial officer and regular reports Turnbull guidance.
are prepared for the treasury committee.
The main elements of the Groups internal control vGroup control The group control function is system including risk identication are as follows: responsible for risk reviews and internal audit, which it exercises through teams located in the UK and US.
i Board The board of directors has overall responsibility The department reviews business risks, processes and for the Groups system of internal control and exercises procedures in all the main operating companies, control through an organisational structure with clearly agreeing with operating company management plans dened levels of responsibility and authority as well as to mitigate those risks and improve internal controls appropriate reporting procedures.
The board meets and processes.
It monitors operating companies regularly and has a schedule of matters that are progress in implementing its recommendations and brought to it, or its duly authorised committees, for provides regular reports on its findings to executive decision aimed at maintaining effective control over management and, via the audit committee, to the board.
strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
Annually the department specifically reviews and reports This structure includes the audit committee, which with on business risk to executive management and, via the the chief financial officer, reviews the effectiveness of audit committee, to the board.
the internal financial and operating control environment of the Group.
The audit committee meets regularly vi Insurance Insurance is provided through Pearsons and considers reports from both the internal and insurance subsidiary or externally, depending on the external auditors.
scale of the risk and the availability of cover in the external market, with the objective of achieving the ii Operating company controls The identication and most cost effective balance between insured and mitigation of major business risks is the responsibility uninsured risks.
Each operating company maintains controls and procedures appropriate Going concern to its own business environment while conforming to Having reviewed the Groups liquid resources and Group standards and guidelines, including procedures borrowing facilities, and the 2004 and 2005 cash ow to identify and mitigate all types of risk.
To this forecasts contained in the Group budget for 2004, the end operating companies undertake risk reviews, directors believe that the Group has adequate resources semi-annually, to identify new or potentially to continue as a going concern for the foreseeable under-managed risks.
For this reason, the financial statements have, as usual, been prepared on that basis.
53 Shareholder communication Supplier payment policy Pearson has an extensive programme of communication Operating companies are responsible for agreeing with all its shareholders large and small, institutional the terms and conditions under which business and private.
We also make a particular effort to transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
It is communicate regularly with our employees, a large company policy that suppliers are aware of such terms majority of whom are shareholders in the company.
of payment and that payments to them are made in We post all company announcements on our website, accordance with these, provided that the supplier is also www.
com, as soon as they are released, and complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
Group major shareholder presentations are made accessible trade creditors at 31 December 2003 were equivalent via webcast or conference call.
Our website contains a to 37 days of purchases during the year ended on that dedicated investor relations section with an extensive date.
The company does not have any significant trade archive of past announcements and presentations, creditors and therefore is unable to disclose average historical financial performance, share price data and a supplier payment terms.
It also includes information about all of our businesses, links to their websites, and details of External giving our corporate responsibility policies and activities.
In 2003, Pearsons charitable giving totalled 2.1m 2002: 2.8m.
This was split between the UK In 2003, we began a programme of educational seminars 605,000: 868,000 in 2002, and the rest of the world for our institutional shareholders focusing on individual 1,508,000: 1,929,000 in 2002.
In addition to cash parts of Pearson.
Last year this covered the No Child donations, Pearson provides in-kind support such as Left Behind education bill, our asset pricing business books, publishing expertise, advertising space and IDC and our Higher Education business.
We encourage our employees to support are available to all shareholders via webcast on their personal charities by matching donations and www.
Our AGM which will be held on 30 April this year We focus our charitable giving on projects related includes opportunities to meet the companys managers, to education.
presentations about Pearsons businesses and the previous years results as well as general AGM business.
More details can be found in the section entitled standing up starting on page 22.
People The average number of people employed in Pearson Share capital during 2003 was 30,868 across 62 countries.
Details of share issues are given in note 23 to the Each business has detailed employment practices for accounts on pages 104 and 105.
At the AGM held on recruitment, remuneration, employee relations, health 25 April 2003, the company was authorised, subject and safety, and terms and conditions designed for the to certain conditions, to acquire up to 80 million different sectors and countries in which it operates.
of its ordinary shares by market purchase.
Although circumstances have not merited using this authority We are committed to equality of opportunity for and there are no plans at present to do so, shareholders all regardless of gender, race, age, physical ability, will be asked to renew this authority at the AGM on religion or sexual orientation.
This philosophy 30 April 2004. applies equally to recruitment and to the promotion, development and training of people who are already At 27 February 2004, beneficial interests amounting to part of Pearson.
The company takes seriously its 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the statutory obligations to the disabled and seeks not to company notied to the company comprised: discriminate against current or prospective employees Number because of any disability.
We are always willing to make of shares Percentage reasonable adjustments to premises or employment Legal& General 24,046,759 3.00% arrangements if these substantially disadvantage a disabled employee or prospective employee.
Telefnica Contenidos, SA 38,853,403 4.84% Every effort is made to nd suitable alternative jobs Franklin Resources, Inc. 48,400,695 6.03% for those who are unable to continue in their existing role due to disability.
The Capital Group Companies Inc. 104,380,995 13.01% Pearson is committed to clear and timely communication with its people concerning business performance.
It works hard to maintain effective channels of communication as detailed in the section entitled standing up starting on page 22 and supports employee representation to help positive employee relations.
Twice a year, the European Employee Forum meets to discuss issues of importance to staff in their businesses.
54 Directors report continued Annual general meeting The notice convening the AGM to be held at 12 noon on Friday, 30 April 2004 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE, is contained in a circular to shareholders to be dated 25 March 2004.
Registered auditors In accordance with section 384 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act resolutions proposing the reappointment of  LLP as auditors to the company will be proposed at the AGM, at a level of remuneration to be agreed by the directors.
Auditor independence In line with best practice, the audit committee has introduced a policy that defines those non-audit services that the independent auditors,  LLP, may or may not provide to Pearson.
The policy requires the provision of these services to be approved in advance by the audit committee.
The policy also establishes other procedures to ensure that the auditors independence has not been compromised.
A full statement of the fees for audit and non-audit services is provided in note 3 to the accounts.
Statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Act.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group, and hence for taking reasonable steps towards preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
In preparing the financial statements on pages 70 to 73 and 75 to 112 inclusive, the directors consider that appropriate accounting policies have been used and applied in a consistent manner, supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all relevant accounting standards have been followed.
Approved by the board on 27 February 2004 and signed on its behalf by: Philip Hoffman, secretary
