02 P&O Annual Report 2003 Company overview Company overview The Group P&O is a worldwide transport and logistics company.
Operating under the widely recognised house flag and brand name, P&Os businesses are focused on achieving world class operational and financial performance and on delivering first class service to customers.
Description Strategy P&O Ports One of the worlds pre-eminent container terminal operators and stevedores, with 27 container P&O is committed to terminals and logistics operations in over 100 ports, focusing its capital on those P&O Ports has a presence in 18 countries across businesses where it is a the world.
Its main service is containerised cargo market leader and which handling based on long term concessions to operate terminals in ports which offer strong growth offer strong growth and opportunities.
Other services include: general value creation opportunities.
cargo, bulk cargo, roll on-roll off facilities and cruise passenger terminal management.
P&O Ports also provides a range of maritime services.
Description P&O Ferries P&O is a household name in the UK for ferry travel.
P&O Ferries carries freight and tourist traffic between the UK and France, Spain, Belgium and Holland.
P&O Irish Sea operates routes for freight and tourist passenger traffic between the UK, France and Ireland.
P&O Ferrymasters, the European road haulage and freight management business, is part of P&O Ferries.
P&O Nedlloyd Container Line Other activities P&O Nedlloyd is a joint venture between P&O and Royal Nedlloyd N. V. It is one of the worlds largest container shipping companies.
In February 2004, P&O and Royal Nedlloyd announced that P&O Nedlloyd is to effectively become independent and listed.
Royal Nedlloyd N. V. is to acquire P&Os 50% stake in P&O Nedlloyd for a cash consideration and a 25% stake in the new company Royal P&O Nedlloyd N. V. P&O Annual Report 2003 03 Company overview Volume of teu handled in 2003 Strategy Ports is committed to achieving strong profit growth by increasing scale organically through local trade growth 11.
3m and market share gain at existing locations, by expanding current capacity P&O equity share or developing acquiring new terminals, teu twenty foot equivalent unit.
and by improving the efficiency of its This is the standard size of a container container terminal operations through and is a common measure of capacity spreading best practice and effective in the container business.
Passengers carried in 2003 Strategy Ferries is focused on routes with strong tourist demand but also with a significant freight component.
It aims to deliver a 13.3m consistently high quality of service to customers To be the best at everything we do and to exploit the opportunities of a consolidated ferries brand and the associated economies of scale and purchasing power.
P&O Properties P&O Cold Logistics P&O Properties has 40% of its assets P&O Cold Logistics provides a full in the US, including business parks range of logistics services, ranging from in Atlanta and Denver and a refrigerated warehousing to complex commercial office development in retail supply chain management for Boston.
It also has major development temperature controlled products.
It is sites in the UK and Germany, resort one of the worlds few international interests in Spain and Australia and temperature controlled logistics a small property portfolio in the UK companies and has strong competitive and the USA.
positions in the USA, Australasia and South America.
