30 P&O Annual Report 2003 Report of the directors Report of the directors The directors present their report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Principal group activities, review of operations and results The operating and financial review on pages 6 to 21 describes the principal activities, operations, performance and financial position of the Group.
The results of the Group are set out in detail on pages 48 to 51 and in the accompanying notes.
Further information is given in the Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5.
The principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are listed on page 87.
Principal changes in the Group On 20 January 2003, the Group announced the acquisition of two businesses from BCR Marine in Canada for C$105 million 42.5 million.
The businesses concerned were the CASCO container terminal Centerm in Vancouver and Canadian Stevedoring, which offers cargo handling services in ports throughout British Columbia.
On 5 June 2003, the Group announced that it had acquired 100 per cent of Mundra International Container Terminal Limited and related assets from the Adani Group for a total cash consideration of US$195 million 120 million.
The acquisition was principally nanced by the proceeds of an equity placing which raised 120 million cash before costs.
On 30 June 2003, the Group completed the sale of its 50 per cent share in International Offshore Services to its joint venture partner Farstad Shipping ASA for 51 million in cash.
On 21 July 2003, P&O agreed to invest in and operate a substantial new phase of the container port at Qingdao in Shandong Province on the central coast of China.
P&O will have a 29 per cent stake in the expanded operation, which has an operating concession of 30 years.
P&O and its joint venture partners are expecting to invest up to US$800 million for the full expansion of the new facility over the next six years.
Under the agreement, P&O sold 20 per cent out of its existing 49 per cent share to Maersk A S, part of the A. P. Mller group, for US$60 million 37 million.
On 2 December 2003, the Group completed the sale of its remaining 50 per cent interest in Associated Bulk Carriers Limited to its partner Eurotower Holdings SA for total proceeds of US$64 million 38 million in cash.
On 2 February 2004, the Group announced that it had signed a conditional agreement for the disposal of its 50 per cent stake in P&O Nedlloyd Container Line Limited for a consideration of k215 million 147 million cash and a 25 per cent shareholding in Royal Nedlloyd N. V. which will be renamed Royal P&O Nedlloyd N. V. Directors A list of the directors of the Company is given on pages 22 and 23, including the dates of their appointment.
Nick Luff was appointed as Chief Financial officer on 14 May 2003.
Russ Peters was appointed a director on 11 June 2003: in accordance with the regulations of the Company he will retire at the forthcoming annual general meeting and being eligible will offer himself for re-election.
Joanne Curin and Charles Rice ceased to be directors on 5 March 2003 and 30 June 2003 respectively.
Sir Bruce MacPhail retired as Managing Director and stood down from the Board on 31 December 2003 and Robert Woods became Chief Executive officer from 1 January 2004.
In accordance with the regulations of the Company, Sir David Brown, Sir John Collins and Peter Smith will retire by rotation at the forthcoming annual general meeting and being eligible will also offer themselves for re-election.
The unexpired term of the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors, Sir David Brown, Sir John Collins, Michael Everard and Rodney Galpin are given within the directors remuneration report on page 38.
Details of the directors remuneration and their interests in the shares of the Company are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 36 to 45.
Dividends The directors recommend a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2003 of 9p per 1 nominal of deferred stock.
This would bring the total cash dividend for the year to 13.5p per 1 nominal of deferred stock.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 2 June 2004 to deferred stockholders on the register at the close of business on 19 March 2004.
Following the announcement on 2 February 2004 relating to the proposed disposal of part of the Companys holding in P&O Nedlloyd, the Board believes that the dividend should be re-based to provide maximum resources to take advantage of the attractive opportunities in the Ports business.
Consequently, the Board intends, subject to unforeseen circumstances, to propose dividends for the year ending 31 December 2004 of 9p per 1 nominal of deferred stock, with a 3p interim and a 6p final dividend.
Employees The Company is committed to keeping employees throughout the Group informed of performance, development and progress through its established system of briengs by management, the Groups bi-monthly newspaper, Wavelength, and widely distributed news and information bulletins.
There is a European Works Council, known as the P&O European Forum, the purpose of which is to inform and consult with employee representatives on transnational issues.
Members are elected in the UK and Ireland and either elected or appointed, in accordance with national laws, in other countries.
The P&O European Forum meets twice a year.
The Companys aim is to meet the objectives of the code of good practice on the employment of disabled people.
Full and fair consideration is given to disabled applicants for employment and training, and career development is encouraged on the basis of aptitude and abilities.
It remains Company policy to retain employees who become disabled whilst in its service and to provide specialised training where appropriate.
Employees are able to share in the Groups results through performance related bonus schemes which are widely applied in the Group.
P&O Annual Report 2003 31 Report of the directors The P&O 1994 Save As You Earn Stock Option Scheme the 1994 Scheme was approved by stockholders in 1994 and expires on 13 May 2004.
Under this scheme, which is a UK Inland Revenue approved scheme, eligible employees may be invited to apply for options during the six weeks after announcement of results for any period.
The option granted to each individual is related to the monthly sum the individual agrees to save under a contract, not exceeding 250 per month for a period of three or five years, with a financial institution nominated by the directors.
Options can be granted with an exercise price which is discounted by up to 20 per cent by reference to the market value of the deferred stock at the time the options are offered to eligible employees.
Options are normally exercisable at the end of the related savings contract, but earlier exercise is permitted in certain circumstances, for example, if an individual leaves employment for specic good leaver reasons or if there is a change in control of the Company.
In view of the global nature of the P&O Group and the benets of encouraging wide employee share ownership, the Company sought the approval of stockholders in 2002 to adopt plans, based on the 1994 Scheme, for the benefit of overseas employees on the basis that all such plans would operate within the individual and plan limits applicable to the 1994 Scheme.
Such plans were duly adopted.
The overseas plans are also due to expire on 13 May 2004.
The expiring plans have been popular with employees and your directors believe that it would be in the best interests of the Company for replacement plans to be adopted.
Your directors therefore recommend that you vote in favour of resolutions 12 and 13, set out in the notice of meeting, to be proposed at the annual general meeting approving the adoption of a new UK Sharesave plan the 2004 UK Sharesave Plan and overseas plans based on that UK plan.
The 2004 UK Sharesave Plan will be submitted to the Inland Revenue for approval.
The rules of the proposed 2004 UK Sharesave Plan are based on the rules of the expiring scheme, save that some amendments have been made primarily to update such rules.
They are summarised in the notes to the notice of meeting.
The P&O 2000 Executive Stock Option Plan the P&O Option Plan was approved by stockholders on 20 October 2000.
Under the P&O Option Plan options may be granted twice a year, during the six weeks after the release of the interim or final results.
The life of options is ten years and the price at which options can be granted is governed by the market price of deferred stock at the time of grant.
There are restrictions on the total number of options that can be granted in normal circumstances to any one executive and the scheme also contains limits on the total amount of stock over which options may be granted.
The rules of the P&O Option Plan reect current institutional investor guidelines by requiring that options granted under the Plan can normally be exercised only if a performance target has been met.
Options granted under this scheme will not normally be exercisable unless the growth in P&Os headline earnings per 1 nominal of deferred stock EPS over a period of at least three years from grant exceeds the percentage increase in the UK Index of Retail Prices by an average of at least three per cent per annum.
The rules permit the adoption of a different basis if at the time of a grant of options it is thought appropriate to do so, provided that the replacement conditions are no less demanding.
The Company reported negative EPS for 2002 and accordingly application of the formula for EPS growth would result in a less stretching hurdle.
Therefore, the remuneration committee resolved that options granted during 2003 will not normally be exercisable unless the growth in P&Os pre-tax and exceptional items profit per 1 nominal of deferred stock over a period of at least three years from grant exceeds the percentage increase in the UK Index of Retail Prices by an average of at least three per cent per annum.
It is proposed to seek stockholder approval to amend the rules of the P&O Option Plan to enable the Company to satisfy the exercise of both existing and future options by the issue of only that amount of stock which has a value, at the time of exercise, equal to the net gain resulting from the exercise, that is, the difference between the market price on the day of exercise of the amount of stock under the option and the total exercise price payable.
Further information on this proposal and the accompanying stockholder resolution resolution 10 are set out in the notice of meeting.
Corporate responsibility, safety and the environment There are Group policies for health, safety, welfare, the environment and social responsibility.
These are communicated to all staff.
Each operating company is required to produce their own policies and management systems to reect Group policies and best industry practice in its sector of business.
The Company also encourages the adoption of similar policies by its significant joint ventures.
Monitoring of compliance with Group policies is maintained by periodic assessment under the direction of the Head of Group Safety and Environment.
Reports are reviewed by Peter Smith, the Board director responsible for safety, environmental and social responsibility issues.
In addition a monthly report on these matters is submitted to the Board.
A separate report details the measures taken to minimise the environmental impact of Group businesses.
It is available on the internet at www.
com or by request to the Head of Group Safety and Environment.
Share capital In June 2003, in order to finance the acquisition of Mundra International Container Terminal Limited, 54,550,000 nominal of deferred stock was allotted in exchange for 100 per cent of the equity and preference share capital of a newly formed subsidiary company, and placed in the market at a price of 220p.
Since this was an issue of stock in exchange for non-cash assets, this constituted a non-pre-emptive issue within the scope of Article 10 5 of the Companys Supplemental Charter.
The proceeds of the placing, totalling approximately 120 million before expenses of 2.3 million, were paid to the Company by way of redemption of the subsidiary companys preference shares.
The closing market price of the Companys deferred stock on the day of the placing was 225p.
There may be occasions when it would be advantageous for the Company to issue stock for cash without a pre-emptive offer to existing stockholders, and since 1989 stockholders in general meeting have extended the authority for such issues originally given at the annual general meeting held on 6 May 1988, which authority also permits new limits to be prescribed.
Stockholders consent is therefore sought to resolution 11 set out in the notice of meeting authorising the directors to issue a specified amount of stock for cash, not exceeding 36 million nominal in 32 P&O Annual Report 2003 Report of the directors aggregate 2003 34 million, without first being required to offer such stock to existing stockholders.
36 million is approximately 5 per cent of the deferred stock currently in issue.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting in 2005 or on 14 August 2005, whichever is the earlier.
Stockholders approval of resolution 11 set out in the notice of meeting, which will be proposed as special business, will also enable the directors, pursuant to resolution 8 passed at the annual general meeting held on 6 May 1988, to issue redeemable securities and convertible securities and to make technical provision for the manner of conversion.
There may be circumstances when, having regard to gearing levels, other investment opportunities and the effect on earnings per 1 nominal of deferred stock, it would be advantageous for the Company to purchase its own stock.
Any stock purchased by the Company would be cancelled and the amount of stock in issue reduced accordingly.
The existing authority for the Company to purchase its own stock, given at the annual general meeting held on 16 May 2003, expires at the conclusion of the annual general meeting to be held on 14 May 2004.
Stockholders consent is therefore sought to resolution 14 set out in the notice of meeting to enable the directors to purchase up to 36 million nominal of deferred stock approximately 5 per cent of the deferred stock currently in issue, subject to the limits expressed in the resolution.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting in 2005, and it will be exercised only if there is a resultant increase in earnings per 1 nominal of deferred stock and if implementation of the proposal is for the benefit of stockholders generally.
Holders of the 5.5 per cent concessionary stock concessionary stock should note that a purchase by the Company of deferred stock gives them the right to repayment of their stock at par together with accrued interest and dividends whether earned or declared or not calculated at the date of such purchase.
This should not, however, be construed as a recommendation to such holders to exercise their right to repayment.
Holders of concessionary stock should note that it may not be in their best interests to exercise the right of repayment and should seek their own personal financial advice in deciding whether or not to do so.
If any concessionary stockholder wishes to exercise the right of repayment in the event of a buy-back of deferred stock by the Company pursuant to the authority being sought at the 2004 annual general meeting, then they should write to the Company Secretary at the head ofce of the Company.
Substantial stockholdings As at the date of this report, the Company has been notied that the following have an interest in the Companys stock amounting to 3 per cent or more of the relevant class of the called up capital: Percentage Class Holding of class Legal & General Investment Management deferred 31,602,532 4.28 M&G Asset Management deferred 37,049,407 5.02 Schroder Investment Management Ltd deferred 68,255,066 9.25 Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd deferred 24,997,908 3.39 Cleaning Tokens Ltd preferred 102,731 3.07 Deutsche Equity Income Trust plc preferred 300,000 8.97 Ecclesiastical Insurance Group preferred 800,000 23.92 PS Allen preferred 140,732 4.21 Scottish Provident Limited preferred 681,000 20.36 The Investment Company plc preferred 514,151 15.37 Going concern The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore they consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Creditor payment policy The Companys policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with terms and conditions agreed when the orders are placed.
Although the Company does not follow any code or standard on payment policy, where payment terms have not been specifically agreed invoices dated in one calendar month are paid close to the end of the following month.
These policies are understood by the purchasing and finance departments.
The Company has procedures for dealing promptly with complaints and disputes.
The Company had 33 days 2002 35 days purchases outstanding at 31 December 2003.
Donations During the year ended 31 December 2003 the Group contributed 380,000 2002 715,000 for charitable purposes.
The Group made no contributions to European Union political parties during the year 2002 nil.
Auditors Stockholders consent is sought to resolutions 8 and 9 set out in the notice of meeting proposing to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as independent auditors of the Company and to authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
By order of the Board RM Gradon Director and Secretary 4 March 2004
