Board of Directors Kenneth George Harvey BSc, CEng, FIEE 62 David Jeremy Dupont MA, MBA 49 Non-executive Chairman Group Director of Finance Was appointed on 1 March 1997.
He was formerly chairman Was appointed on 2 March 2002.
He was formerly regulatory and chief executive of Norweb Plc.
He was chairman of National and finance director of South West Water Limited, having joined Grid Holdings in 1995 and was previously deputy chairman of Pennon Group Plc then South West Water Plc in 1992 as London Electricity and earlier its engineering director.
He is also strategic planning manager.
Previously he held business the non-executive chairman of Beaufort Group Plc and The planning and development roles with Gateway Corporation Plc.
Intercare Group Plc and a non-executive director of National Alan Thomas Fletcher MA 68 Grid Transco Plc.
Non-executive Director Sir Geoffrey Howes Chipperfield KCB, DCL 70 Was appointed on 26 May 1993.
He is managing partner of Non-executive Deputy Chairman Rubicon Partners, chairman of Helix Industries Limited and of Was appointed on 1 October 1993 and became Deputy Shepherd Building Group and a director of a number of Chairman on 1 May 2000.
He was the permanent secretary and subsidiary companies within those groups.
He was formerly chief executive of PSA Services from 1991 and previously he chairman and chief executive of the Wilkinson Sword Group was permanent secretary in the Department of Energy.
He is and chief operating officer of Swedish Match.
He will retire at also chairman of Heliodynamics Limited and pro-chancellor of the conclusion of the annual general meeting on 31 July 2003.
He will retire at the conclusion of the annual Katharine Mary Hope Mortimer MA, BPhil 57 general meeting on 31 July 2003.
Non-executive Director Robert John Baty OBE, FREng, CEng, FICE, FCIWEM, Was appointed on 1 May 2000.
She is currently a freelance CCMI, ACIArb 59 financial consultant, a member of the Crown Agents Foundation Chief Executive, South West Water Limited Council and a director of Crown Agents Financial Services Was appointed on 1 March 1996.
He was formerly engineering Limited and Crown Agents Asset Management Limited.
She and scientific director of South West Water Limited then South was formerly a director of N M Rothschild & Sons Limited, West Water Services Limited having joined South West Water director of policy at the Securities and Investments Board, Authority in 1988.
Previously he held engineering and chief executive of Walker Books and a member of the operational appointments with North West Water Authority.
Colin Irwin John Hamilton Drummond MA, MBA, Dinah Alison Nichols CB, BA Hons 59 CCMI, LTCL 52 Non-executive Director Chief Executive, Viridor Waste Limited Was appointed on 12 June 2003.
She was formerly Director Was appointed on 1 April 1992.
Prior to joining the Company General Environment at the Department for Environment, he was a divisional chief executive of Coats Viyella Plc, having Food and Rural Affairs and previously held various senior previously been corporate development director of Renold Plc, appointments within Government departments including a strategy consultant with the Boston Consulting Group Limited being Head of the Water Directorate during the period of and an official of the Bank of England.
He is a member of the water privatisation.
She is also a Crown Estates Commissioner, Governments Advisory Committee for Business in the a non-executive director of Shires Smaller Companies Plc, a Environment.
board member of Toynbee Housing Association and the chairman of Toynbee Partnership Association.
Committees of the Board Audit Nomination Company secretary and registered office Sir Geoffrey H Chipperfield Chairman K G Harvey Chairman K D Woodier A T Fletcher Sir Geoffrey H Chipperfield Peninsula House, Rydon Lane, Exeter EX2 7HR Ms K M H Mortimer A T Fletcher Registered in England No 2366640 Ms D A Nichols Ms K M H Mortimer Auditors Ms D A Nichols Environment  LLP B A O Hewett Chairman co-opted member Chartered Accountants Remuneration R J Baty 31 Great George Street, Bristol BS1 5QD A T Fletcher Chairman C I J H Drummond Sir Geoffrey H Chipperfield Registrars Ms K M H Mortimer Lloyds TSB Registrars Ms D A Nichols appointed 12 June 2003 appointed 24 April 2003 The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA 16 Pennon Group Plc
