Report of the Directors The Directors submit their report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2003.
Principal activity and business review Employment policies The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries the Details are set out in the Business review on page 8.
Group continue to be the provision of water and sewerage services and waste management.
Further information regarding Research and development the Group and its progress during the year and future Research and development activities within the Group during developments is contained in the Chairmans statement, in the the year amounted to 0.1 million compared with 2.6 million in Business review and in the Financial review on pages 2 to 15.
The principal subsidiaries of the Company are listed in note 29 to the financial statements on page 62.
Charitable donations During the year charitable donations amounting to 46,000 were Financial results and dividend made.
No political donations were made.
Group profit on ordinary activities after taxation was 57.1 million.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 26.5p per Tax status ordinary share, making a total for the year of 39.1p excluding The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the the special interim dividend of 70.0p, the cost of which is 48.7 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. million, leaving a retained deficit of 87.2 million which has been transferred from reserves.
Payments to suppliers The Financial review on pages 12 to 15 analyses the results in Details are set out in the Financial review on page 15. more detail and sets out other financial information, including the Directors opinion on asset values.
Substantial shareholdings Directors Details are set out in the Shareholder information section on page 72.
Sir Geoffrey Chipperfield and Mr A T Fletcher will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the annual general meeting on 31 Auditors July 2003.
Ms D A Nichols was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 12 June 2003.
Messrs K G Harvey and C I J H  were appointed auditors until the Drummond are due to retire by rotation at the annual general conclusion of the fourteenth annual general meeting.
However, meeting and they offer themselves for re-election.
Following her following the conversion of  to a appointment by the Board, Ms D A Nichols is also due to retire Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003, and will offer herself for election at the annual general meeting.
 resigned as the Companys auditors on Resolutions for the re election of Messrs K G Harvey, C I J H 26 February 2003 and the Directors appointed its successor, Drummond and Ms D A Nichols will be proposed at the annual  LLP to fill the casual vacancy.
resolution for their re-appointment upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee of the Board will be proposed at the No Director has, or has had, a material interest, directly or annual general meeting and the auditors have indicated their indirectly, at any time during the year under review in any willingness to continue in office.
contract significant to the Companys business.
Further details relating to the Directors and their service contracts are set out on pages 17 to 20 and details of the Directors interests in shares of the Company are given on pages 22 and 23.
Pennon Group Plc 27 Report of the Directors Appointed business Annual general meeting South West Water Limited is required to publish additional The fourteenth annual general meeting will be held at the financial information relating to the appointed business as Plymouth Pavilions, Millbay Road, Plymouth, Devon on 31 July water and sewerage undertaker in accordance with the 2003 at 11am.
Instrument of Appointment from the Secretary of State for the In addition to routine business, resolutions will be proposed at Environment.
A copy of this information will be available from the annual general meeting to: 15 July 2003 upon application to the Company Secretary at Peninsula House, Rydon Lane, Exeter EX2 7HR.
re-elect Mr K G Harvey and Mr C I J H Drummond and to elect Ms D A Nichols as Directors of the Company approve the Directors remuneration report for the year as set out in pages 17 to 23 of the Annual Report renew the existing authorities to issue a limited number of shares and to purchase up to 10% of the issued share capital adopt new Articles of Association of the Company introduce a scrip dividend alternative for shareholders to replace the existing Dividend Reinvestment Plan Details of the resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting which is circulated as a separate document with the Annual Report.
By Order of the Board K D Woodier, Company Secretary 26 June 2003 28 Pennon Group Plc
