Directors and advisers Sir Robin Saxby Warren East Tim Score Tudor Brown Mike Inglis Sir Robin Saxby age 57 Tim Score age 43 Mike Muller age 45 Chairman Chief Financial Officer Chief Technology Officer Sir Robin Saxby joined ARM in February 1991 Tim Score joined ARM as Chief Financial Officer Mike Muller was one of the founders of as Chairman, President and Chief Executive and director in March 2002.
Before joining the Company, he was Officer.
He relinquished his roles as President ARM, he was Finance Director of Rebus Group responsible for hardware strategy and the and CEO in October 2001.
He was previously Group Finance development of portable products at Acorn he was with European Silicon Structures SA Director of William Baird plc, Group Controller Computers.
He was previously at Orbis ES2 where he was Vice President, Northern at LucasVarity plc and Group Financial Computers.
At ARM he was Vice President, Europe: Managing Director, ES2 Limited: and Controller at BTR plc.
Marketing from 1992 to 1996 and Executive President of US2, ES2s US affiliate.
He was Vice President, Business Development until previously with Motorola Semiconductors and Tudor Brown age 45 October 2000 when he was appointed Chief with Henderson Security Systems Limited.
He Chief Operating Officer Technology Officer.
In October 2001, he was has also served as Chairman of the EU panel, Tudor Brown was one of the founders of ARM.
Open Microprocessor Initiative Advisory Group, Before joining the Company, he was Principal which advised on collaborative R&D activity.
In Engineer at Acorn Computers, where he worked Peter Cawdron age 60 2000, he was awarded an honorary doctorate on the ARM R&D programme.
At ARM, he was Independent Non-Executive Director DEng from Liverpool University and was Engineering Director and Chief Technical Officer Peter Cawdron joined the ARM board in March appointed a visiting professor to the from 1993: in October 2000, he was appointed 1998.
From 1983 to 1998 he worked for Grand universitys department of electronics.
In July Executive Vice President, Global Development Metropolitan plc, where he served as Group 2001, he was awarded an honorary doctorate and in October 2001, he was appointed to the Strategy Development Director.
He was DTech from Loughborough University.
He was board as Chief Operating Officer.
previously Chief Financial Officer and a director knighted in the 2002 New Years Honours list.
of DArcy-MacManus & Masius Worldwide, Inc.
He is a non-executive director of Glotel plc.
Mike Inglis age 44 and before that a member of the corporate Executive Vice President, Marketing finance team at S. G. Warburg & Co. Ltd.
He Warren East age 42 Mike Inglis joined ARM as Executive Vice qualified as a chartered accountant at Peat, Chief Executive Officer President, Marketing in June 2002, and was Marwick, Mitchell & Co. in 1966.
He is Warren East joined ARM in 1994.
He set up appointed to the board in August that year.
Chairman of Capital Radio plc and is a nonARMs consulting business and was Vice Before joining ARM, he led the UK executive director of a number of UK listed President, Business Operations from February Communications and High Technology team companies, including Compass Group plc, 1998.
In October 2000 he was appointed to at A. T. Kearney Management Consultants and The Capita Group plc, Christian Salvesen plc, the board as Chief Operating Officer and in held a number of senior operational and Arla Foods UK plc and Johnstone Press plc.
October 2001 was appointed Chief Executive strategic marketing positions at Motorola.
Before joining ARM he was with Texas He previously worked in marketing, design Instruments.
and consultancy with Texas Instruments, Fairchild Camera and Instruments and BIS Macintosh.
He gained his initial industrial experience with GEC Telecommunications.
He is a non-executive director of Superscape Group plc.
14 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 Mike Muller Peter Cawdron Doug Dunn Lawrence Tesler John Scarisbrick Doug Dunn age 59 Lawrence Tesler age 58 John Scarisbrick age 51 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Doug Dunn joined the ARM board in December Lawrence Tesler was a member of the ARM John Scarisbrick joined the ARM board in 1998.
He is President and Chief Executive board from its foundation until August 1997 August 2001.
He is a venture partner at Vortex Officer of ASM Lithography Holding N. V. Before and rejoined, as a non-executive director, Partners LLP in Dallas, Texas.
He worked for joining ASML, he was Chairman and Chief in March 1998.
He is Vice President, Texas Instruments in the UK, France and the Executive Officer of the Consumer Electronics Engineering for Amazon.
US for 25 years: he was most recently Division of Royal Philips Electronics N. V. and Before joining Amazon he was Vice President responsible for its $5 billion ASP business a member of the board.
He was previously and Chief Scientist for Apple Computer, Inc. worldwide and had previously been President Managing Director of the Plessey and GEC He was previously on the staff of the Xerox of Texas Instruments Europe TI.
Before Semiconductor divisions and held several Palo Alto Research Center, President of joining TI, he worked in design roles at Rank engineering and management positions at a software consulting firm and a research Radio International and Marconi Space and Motorola.
He was awarded an OBE in 1992. associate at Stanford University.
He will be Defence Systems.
He is Chairman of He is a non-executive director of ST retiring from the board at the 2004 AGM, Cambridge Positioning Systems Ltd: serves on Microelectronics N. V. and Sendo Holdings plc.
having served two three-year terms.
the Technical Advisory Board of venture investor ViVentures: and is a director of Intrinsity, a fabless semiconductor company, and of SonIM, the leading developer of 2.5 3G voice instant messaging applications.
ARM Holdings plc Legal advisers Registrars Secretary and registered office UK law Lloyds TSB Registrars Patricia Alsop Linklaters The Causeway 110 Fulbourn Road One Silk Street Worthing Cambridge CB1 9NJ London EC2Y 8HQ West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 870 600 3984 Registered number US law 2548782 Davis Polk & Wardwell Depositary 99 Gresham Street The Bank of New York Stockbrokers London EC2V 7NG 101 Barclays Street Hoare Govett Limited United Kingdom New York 250 Bishopsgate New York 10286 London EC2M 4AA Auditors United States of America United Kingdom  LLP Abacus House Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited Castle Park 25 Cabot Square Cambridge CB3 0AN Canary Wharf United Kingdom London E14 4QA United Kingdom ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 15
