ARM: connected continued can be run at a lower frequency, but still Connected to Foundry partners achieve the same amount of work.
The Connected Community also includes our Foundry Programme partners.
We created this Our significant presence in the wireless industry programme to give smaller semiconductor has enabled us to work with a number of manufacturers, which do not have their own leading companies, to facilitate the availability facilities to fabricate silicon known as fabless of high-quality 3D games which have been companies, access to our technology.
By accessible on PCs since 1995 on wireless licensing foundries to provide a range of devices.
In May 2003, we launched our process technologies we are able to protect Swerve solution, which we developed in our IP while, at the same time, making it collaboration with Superscape Group plc.
The Swerve Client engine is designed for small screens and incorporates technology that saves During the year, we launched our new memory and download time, making it ideal ARM926EJ Prime Starter Kit through the for applications such as mobile telephones and Foundry Programme: this provides an even PDAs.
It opens up a new range of applications more cost-effective way for these smaller for consumers.
It specialises in facilitating companies to move quickly from concept to interactive 3D technology and enables designers finished product.
The ARM926EJ Prime Starter and programmers to create content quickly Kit enables fabless companies to license a without needing detailed knowledge of combined package comprising the ARM926EJ techniques such as 3D rendering.
core and the PrimeXsys Platform, together with the Embedded Trace Macrocell solution.
Three of the worlds top five mobile telephone manufacturers have chosen to incorporate Connected to the future Swerve technology into their handsets.
Innovation has always been, and will continue to be, the key to ARMs success.
R&D forms Software is becoming increasingly complex: a large part of our work schedule and our chips in todays products incorporate multiple constant quest for the next killer application microprocessors and tens of megabytes of frequently involves us in forming alliances program code to implement many more with other industry-leading companies.
In October 2003, we announced that, in To help OEM product developers create collaboration with NEC Electronics, we are competitive products, we developed developing central processing unit CPU cores Coresight low-cost debug and trace based on symmetric multiprocessor SMP technology which gives visibility into the technology.
SMP technology is about putting a operation of highly complex embedded number of multiple processors on a single products.
This enables developers to meet chip.
If an application needs a great deal of the imperatives of creating reliable, highpower, the workload can be shared across the performance products and of bringing them processors but, as in IEM technology, it is to market quickly.
scaleable: if three processors are needed to complete the task, that is what is used: if setting the standard ARMs Connected Community gives our partners access to standard and proven designs.
We focus on protecting their investment in technology: we also create innovative products which will set the standard for the future 12 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 eight are needed, they are available.
Its about using as much resource as is needed to create exactly the right solution.
We have always been evangelists for digitalisation we believe it delivers greater opportunities, efficiency and security and consumers demands for increasingly advanced digital products are now driving the semiconductor market.
These, and other, developments emphasise our culture of innovation, make the best use of our partnership model and ensure that the ARM Community continues to be connected to the future, for everyones benefit.
Investing in the future More than one-third of revenue invested in R&D 676 patent applications, 290 granted Leadership role in establishing standards ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 13
