ARM: connected ARM is connected to its partners, its for wireless security: and Imagination, for MBX customers, its suppliers, its shareholders, graphic acceleration.
to governments, to education, to standards bodies, and to its employees.
It also Membership of the Connected Community enables organisations and consumers to be brings a range of benefits.
The most obvious connected to one another and to innovative is that members are connected to ARM, which technology, and to transmit information is widely regarded as one of the UKs most around the world from home, from work successful technology companies and one or on the move.
which invests more than one-third of its income in R&D.
Many members of the Community are ARM Connected Community aligning themselves with the ARM brand to In the 13 years since we founded the demonstrate that connection.
Other benefits Company, we have developed a unique include access to a range of companies that partnership business model which, in 2003, can provide services or components, sales we formalised when we created the ARM leads and opportunities to network and to take Connected Community.
Membership of the part in promotional programmes.
Hundreds of community is open to any company that companies around the world now belong to this has a product that uses or complements our global community that provides solutions, from technology, or one which helps in the design design to manufacture, for products based on of ARM Powered devices.
These members include semiconductor and Connected to employees systems companies that develop our ideas We value our people.
Our investment in and innovations into digital products: suppliers training and retaining them enables us to of embedded operating systems OS and maintain our culture of continuous innovation.
development environments: providers of application software: vendors of electronic Our policies on employment are set out in design automation EDA tools, which enable more detail in the corporate social responsibility designers to test and verify circuits before report on page 21 of this document.
beginning production: vendors of silicon based on our system platforms, which provide Connected to sharing information the tools and methodologies which enable Our IP is a vital element in products which our partners to differentiate their end enable consumers to share and store products: and tools developers, which supply information, access and enjoy media content, hardware and software solutions for designers and send and receive images, from home, to implement our architecture.
from work or on the move, and to do it all securely.
We now have 128 semiconductor partners: 50 development tools partners: 30 OS partners: Our architecture bridges the gap between and 40 technology partners, which include individuals and the information-rich outside TransDimension, for USB on the go: Superscape, world.
It is at the heart of the wireless for Swerve i3D applications: SafeNet, market.
It powers PDAs and more than 75% connected community Membership of the ARM Connected Community brings a range of benefits, which includes being connected to what is widely regarded as one of the UKs most successful technology companies 8 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 of the worlds mobile telephones: it enables consumers to use applications such as the Nintendo Game Boy Advance and set-top boxes: it plays a crucial role in creating a secure infrastructure to protect personal information in digital products.
It is also popular with the automotive industry because it is used by a wide range of partners and thereby helps to simplify the supply chain: and it is facilitating the progression of microcontrollers MCUs, used in domestic products such as washing and dishwasher machines, and in industrial controllers, from 4- and 8-bit to 32-bit solutions, which can deliver more flexibility and greater performance.
Connected to performance In recent years, the demand for technology to be more efficient and, indeed, to do more has increased beyond the imagination even of H G Wells.
We already expect our washing machines and dishwashers to be able to read how big and how dirty the load is: our cars to lock by remote control: our video and DVD machines to record when we are out: our cameras to produce instant images: and our mobile telephones to be able to send and receive voice and text data, e-mails and images.
There is no doubt that manufacturers will continue to be under pressure to accommodate more functions into their products.
Every benefit that is built into a system brings, however, its challenges: these are principally power consumption and security, and we have been paying particular attention to both.
Power consumption has always been high on our agenda.
Delivering more compute power while, at the same time, reducing A growing partnership 128 semiconductor partners 50 development tools partners 30 operating systems partners 40 technology partners ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 9
