REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION INTRODUCTION Contractual termination arrangements for departing executive directors This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Grant of executive share options and awards under the Leadership Equity Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
As required by the regulations, Award Plan and the Deferred Bonus Plan a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the annual general Share ownership and retention targets.
meeting of the company to be held on 28th July 2003.
This report to shareholders outlines the membership and workings of POLICY ON REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR the Remuneration Committee and provides an explanation of the various EXECUTIVES elements of the remuneration policy.
The report also outlines how the Objectives of the remuneration policy executive and non-executive directors were remunerated during the The objectives of the remuneration policy are to ensure that remuneration year, and provides details of the share interests of all the directors.
packages offered are competitive and designed in such a way as to attract, The Report on Directors Remuneration is unaudited except for retain and motivate executive directors and senior executives of the highest the section headed Audited Information.
The policy aims to ensure that individual rewards and incentives are aligned with the performance of the Group Remuneration Committee and the interests of the shareholders and reflect the contribution of the The Remuneration Committee determines the overall remuneration policy individuals concerned.
The individual elements of the executive package for executive directors and has delegated responsibility from the board will vary depending on the market conditions in the countries in which for setting the remuneration packages of individual executive directors.
In addition, the committee determines and approves annual and long-term The committee aims to align its remuneration policy with the medium to incentive plans, including setting appropriate performance targets, and is long-term strategy of the Group.
Salary and benefit packages are set at responsible for the granting of options under the Groups senior market competitive levels, and annual performance-related payments are executives share option schemes.
assessed against the achievement of key financial targets.
Share based longThe Remuneration Committee consists of the non-executive directors, term incentives are used to align the interests of the senior executive group specifically James Leng Chairman, Sir Nigel Rudd, Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel, with those of shareholders.
This is achieved by linking executive awards to William Harrison and Oliver Stocken.
None has any personal financial the creation of shareholder value, and currently focusing on the growth in interest other than as a shareholder.
The committee met six times during earnings per share.
the year to 31st March 2003 and, at its request, the group chief executive The remuneration policy also encourages investment in company shares, was invited to attend committee meetings except when matters relating to and the current long-term share based incentives require such his own remuneration and service agreement were under discussion.
The an investment by participants.
This policy is expected to continue in group human resources director was also invited to attend and acted as future years.
The remuneration arrangements meet with the provisions of the The committee is authorised by the board to obtain any outside Combined Code.
professional advice about remuneration matters and has selected Deloitte & Touche to advise it on remuneration practice.
The main components of the executive directors remuneration This section summarises the main components of the remuneration.
The following provided advice and services to the committee during the year: A detailed analysis of the remuneration for the year is shown in the section David Vernon-Smith Group human resources director entitled Executive Directors Remuneration.
Tim Izzett Group compensation and benefits manager until The normal remuneration arrangements for executive directors consist of 31st December 2002 salary, annual financial performance-related bonus, a long-term incentive Annette Kelleher Group compensation and benefits manager from programme the Leadership Equity Award Plan and benefits which include 1st January 2003 company car, medical insurance and pension entitlement.
The executive Herbert Smith Solicitors directors are not eligible to participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan or the Deloitte & Touche Remuneration advisers.
senior executives share option schemes whilst participating in the During the year, Deloitte & Touche also provided advice to the board Leadership Equity Award Plan.
on non-executive directors remuneration, the deputy chairmans remuneration and other business advisory services.
Salary The policy is to broadly align salaries with market medians.
The salary for The principal matters considered by the committee during the year were: each executive director is reviewed in April each year against market Annual review of salaries for executive directors information provided by the committees independent adviser and taking into Targets and results for annual incentive plans for executive directors account the individuals performance and experience in the role.
The Performance targets for long-term incentive plans committee considers data drawn from a sample of comparator companies Review of executive directors service agreements chosen on the basis of industrial sector, size, complexity and international Remuneration arrangements for a new executive director including dimension.
This comparator group is recommended by Deloitte & Touche, pension arrangements the committees remuneration advisers.
PILKING PILKINGT TON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 ON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 5 5
