DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED with employees, customers, suppliers, business partners, the community DIRECTORS including the environment, government and all other stakeholders in the The directors of the company are shown on page 30 of the Annual Review.
This code brings together in one document the key elements of In accordance with the companys Articles of Association, Sir Nigel Group policy that impact upon these relationships.
Rudd, Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel and William Harrison will retire by rotation at More information on corporate social responsibility is set out on pages the annual general meeting.
Sir Nigel Rudd and William Harrison, being 24 to 29 of the Annual Review.
eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Andrew Robb will retire as a director at the conclusion of the annual ENVIRONMENT general meeting.
Pilkington strives for the highest standards in all the countries in which Apart from service contracts and share options, no director of the it operates.
A copy of the Groups environmental policy may be obtained company had any significant interest in any contract with the company, from the company secretary.
An environmental review is also available from its subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates.
the company secretary and is also on our website at www.
More information on environmental issues is set out on pages DIRECTORS INTERESTS 25 to 27 of the Annual Review.
The interests of the directors and their immediate families in the share capital of the company and the number of options held by them in HEALTH AND SAFETY respect of the companys shares are set out in the Report on Directors The board is committed to achieving best international standards Remuneration on pages 5 to 13. of health and safety throughout the Group.
The Groups health and safety policy includes a requirement for full ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING health and safety audits of all facilities.
These cover management The notice convening the annual general meeting to be held at the responsibilities, standards and monitoring mechanisms.
A copy of the Pilkington European Technical Centre, Hall Lane, Lathom, Nr.
Ormskirk, policy may be obtained from the company secretary and is also on our Lancashire L40 5UF on Monday, 28th July 2003 at 11.30 am, is sent to website at www.
Information on the Groups safety shareholders separately with this report, together with an explanation of performance is disclosed on pages 24 and 25 of the Annual Review.
PILKINGTON AND THE COMMUNITY AUDITORS During the year Pilkington made donations to charitable organisations in Following the transfer of substantially all of its business to a limited the UK amounting to 235,000 2002 225,000.
Donations to charitable liability partnership,  LLP,  organisations overseas amounted to 210,000 2002 307,000.
No political resigned as auditors on 7th February 2003 and the directors appointed contributions were made.
 LLP The board believes that all Group companies and their employees have expressed their willingness to continue to act and a resolution benefit from making an appropriate contribution to the communities in proposing their reappointment as auditors to the company will be which they operate and it will continue to encourage this.
submitted to the annual general meeting.
Special notice of the intention to propose this resolution was received by the company on 22nd April 2003 in CLOSE COMPANY STATUS accordance with section 388 of the Companies Act 1985.
The close company provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act The Audit Committee approves and reviews the appointment of the 1988 do not apply to Pilkington plc.
auditors, as well as their relationship with the Group, including monitoring the balance of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditors.
PAYMENTS POLICY The Groups policy in relation to the payment of its suppliers is to settle its terms of payment with each supplier when agreeing the terms of each business transaction.
The supplier is made aware of the terms which are detailed on the Groups purchase orders.
It is Group practice to abide by By order of the board, the agreed terms of payment.
Trade creditors of the company amounting John McKenna to 3 million are reported in note 24 to the financial statements, and Secretary represent 32 days of average daily purchases.
29th May 2003 2 PILKINGTON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003
