CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION trail of accountability against the internal control policies and procedures, The boards report on directors remuneration is contained on pages 5 to 13 including the Code of Conduct.
These procedures are relevant across all and details the remuneration policy including the policy on notice periods Group operations and provide for successive assurances to be given at in directors service agreements and particulars of the remuneration of each increasingly higher levels of management and finally to the board.
A significant proportion of the remuneration of the executive process is facilitated by Internal Audit who also provide a degree of directors is linked to corporate and individual performance.
assurance as to the operation and validity of the system of internal control.
The group chief executive also reports to the board on behalf of the RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Executive Board on significant changes in the business and the external Meetings with principal institutional investors are held on a regular basis.
environment, which affect the risk profile of the Group.
The group finance There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question directors at director provides the board with monthly financial information, which the annual general meeting and to discuss any issues on an informal basis at includes key results and performance indicators.
Where areas for the conclusion of that meeting.
Also, shareholders can communicate directly improvement in the system of internal control are identified, the board with individual directors and the company secretary during the year.
In considers the recommendations made by the Executive Board and the addition, a website containing published information, including a briefing Audit Committee.
for investors, presentations to analysts and press releases can be found at At the year end before producing the Directors Report and Accounts the www.
board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the following: the letters of representation and related evidence which enable directors THE MANAGEMENT OF BUSINESS RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROL to review the effectiveness of internal control in the Pilkington Group, The board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control the overall summary of Group risks arrived at through a filter process, and for reviewing its effectiveness and confirms that such a review has taken which ensures that the critical risks are reviewed by directors, and place during the year.
The system of internal control is designed to manage the report from the external auditors on the principal financial reporting rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can issues facing the Group.
provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material The board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of misstatement or loss.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating internal control in the Group in the year under review.
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, including operational The responsibility for risk management and internal control procedures and compliance risks and this is supported by effective controls, policies and with certain material joint ventures and associates, in particular the 35 per procedures.
The risk management process has been in place for the year under cent owned Mexican associate Vitro Plan SA fide CV and the 19 per cent review and up to the date of approval of the Directors Report and Accounts.
owned Chinese associate Shanghai Yaohua Pilkington Glass Co Limited, Management has responsibility for the identification and evaluation of rests largely with the boards and senior management of those operations.
significant risks applicable to their area of business, together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
The risks are assessed by the AUDITORS business management teams on a continual basis and may be associated with The Audit Committee keeps under review the independence and objectivity a variety of internal and external sources including production breakdowns, of the auditors.
In particular, the Audit Committee has recently reviewed its disruption in information systems, competition, natural catastrophe and policies and procedures relating to the provision of non-audit services by the regulatory requirements.
Where appropriate the risk management process auditors.
The approval of the chairman of the Audit Committee is now will include the use of insurance.
required prior to awarding contracts for non-audit services to the auditors in Internal control is also reinforced by the Code of Conduct, approved by excess of specified amounts.
The current major area of non-audit services the board.
This code, which has provided practical guidance for all staff provided by the auditors is taxation services.
Further details of the non-audit since it was drawn up in 1995, has been updated to present a more outward services provided by the auditors are set out in note 7 to the financial looking view of the Group and to recognise more clearly its social statements on page 26.
The auditors report to the Audit Committee on the responsibility.
actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory During the year the Audit Committee of the board: requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence from reviews the external and internal audit work plans, the company, including the periodic rotation of key partners.
receives and reviews a schedule of Group risks and how they are being managed, built up from information filtered through the organisation, and HIGGS REVIEW considers reports from management and internal and external The board has considered the Higgs Review on the role and effectiveness of auditors on the system of internal control including any material control non-executive directors.
Although the board has concerns about certain of weaknesses.
the recommendations and suggested changes to the Combined Code, it The chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of believes that certain provisions are sensible and steps are being taken to meetings to the board and the board receives the minutes of all implement such provisions.
For example, since the review was published, a Audit Committee meetings.
detailed review of the terms of reference of the principal board committees In addition, the Group has in place a system of control self-certification has been completed and a board performance evaluation exercise has been and hierarchical reporting which provides for a documented and auditable undertaken using the services of an independent consultant.
4 PILKINGTON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003
