in the retail price index RPI.
The current target set by the committee is and Pat Zito are terminable by the company on giving one years notice.
RPI plus three per cent per annum.
Providing the earnings per share targets Details of the terms of the contracts of each of the executive directors are are met for the prescribed three year performance period, the share options shown in the table set out below.
will become exercisable after three years and up to ten years from the date In the event of termination by the company, other than for misconduct, each of grant.
Should the performance target not be met after three years, the directors service agreement provides for a maximum payment of 12 committee has the discretion to allow re-testing from a fixed base over four months pay and benefits.
In the case of Stuart Chambers, Iain Lough and years and over five years.
After five years, if the performance target has not Pat Zito those benefits, which are specifically covered by this arrangement, been met, the options lapse.
The Remuneration Committee has decided that, include pension arrangements, private healthcare and the provision of a for options granted in or after June 2003, the performance targets will not company car.
be subject to re-testing and accordingly, if the performance targets are not Details of the directors retiring by rotation and seeking re-election are satisfied after three years, the options will lapse.
Options are exercisable referred to on page 2 of the Directors Report.
Sir Nigel Rudd and William after the Remuneration Committee has reviewed and confirmed that Harrison do not have service agreements, but do have letters of appointment performance against the conditions set has been met.
for a term, which expire in the case of Sir Nigel Rudd on 31st July 2006 The Group also operates a savings-related share option scheme for all and in the case of William Harrison on 10th September 2004.
UK employees, which includes the executive directors.
This scheme was established in 1984 and was last renewed for ten years at the annual Share ownership general meeting in 2002.
This scheme has a value to the company by The board strongly believes in the value of employee share ownership aligning UK employee interests with those of shareholders and provides a in order to continually align the interests of employees with those of long-term vehicle to enable employees to benefit from growth in the shareholders.
The long-term incentive arrangements have been specifically companys share price.
The invitation to participate in this scheme made in designed to encourage and facilitate share ownership and many of June 2002 offered a three, five, or seven year contract with an exercise the Groups senior managers and employees have interests in the price set at a discount of ten per cent on the applicable market price.
An all employee share ownership plan now known as a share incentive The executive directors and approximately 100 senior executives were plan was approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting in July given share ownership targets to achieve by 2002 or within four years of 2000.
No invitations or awards have yet been made under this plan.
The executive directors have all achieved their targets and as at September 2002 approximately 80 per cent of all executives exceeded Pensions their targets.
During the year the share ownership targets were reviewed for The company operates pension schemes for selected executives on a the executive directors and other senior executives.
As a result, the target worldwide basis.
Pension schemes operate under various national for the group chief executive has been increased to 500,000 shares and for legislation.
In the UK, the company operates both defined benefit and other executive directors to 300,000 with a target achievement date of June defined contribution schemes.
Increases have also been agreed for senior executives.
All executive directors are entitled to a pension on retirement and, with the exception of Andrew Robb, such pension is calculated in a similar way to Policy on external appointments pensions provided under the Pilkington Superannuation Scheme.
The pension The committee believes that the company can benefit from its executive arrangements for the executive directors are affected by the Inland Revenue directors holding non-executive appointments and also believes that this cap on approved pension benefits.
Their arrangements are determined on an represents a valuable opportunity in terms of personal and professional individual basis and are part funded through the Pilkington Superannuation development.
Such appointments are subject to the approval of the board Scheme or personal pension plans with the unapproved balance being and it is the companys practice that each executive director may only accept provided through the Pilkington Unfunded Top-Up Scheme.
one such appointment, and that fees from that appointment may be retained by the executive director concerned.
Service agreements It is the policy of the Remuneration Committee that executive directors Policy on remuneration of non-executive directors should have contracts terminable by no more than one years notice.
From The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the board 2001, the notice period in the standard service agreement offered to any within limits set out in the Articles of Association.
They are not eligible for new executive director has been one year.
The boards policy on executive performance-related bonuses or awards under long-term incentive plans and contracts has now been fully implemented and all existing executive no pension contributions are made on their behalf.
Since June 2000 the directors have a contract with a notice period of no more than one year.
annual fees for the non-executive directors have been paid exclusively The service agreements for Stuart Chambers, Andrew Robb, Iain Lough in shares.
Date of service agreement Notice period Unexpired term to normal from company retirement date Stuart Chambers 3rd December 2002 12 months 13 years Andrew Robb 1st July 1996 12 months Retiring on 31st December 2003 Iain Lough 7th February 2003 12 months 3 years 8 months Pat Zito 3rd December 2002 12 months 5 years 8 months PILKINGTON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 7
