REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED Annual performance-related bonus Award level Aggregate EPS over 3 years Core and 2001 2004 2002 2005 performance awards Each executive director participates in an annual performance-related 2001 Plan 2002 Plan incentive scheme based on the Groups yearly performance against budget Core award 1.0 x gross or other targets.
The bonus plans for one operational director is also aligned bonus invested to his business line responsibilities in addition to the performance of the Performance awards Group as a whole.
Challenging performance targets are set each year by the Entry 24.9p 22.6p 0.5 x gross Remuneration Committee based on the budget approved by the board and bonus invested annual bonuses are only payable if these performance targets are met.
For Maximum 29.7p 26.9p 2.5 x gross executive directors the maximum bonus opportunity is 60 per cent of salary.
or above or above bonus invested Annual bonuses are not pensionable.
For the year under review, targets were based on operating profit against budget and cash generation.
Awards vest between entry level and maximum on a linear basis subject For 2003, the bonus payable to executive directors amounts to 494,000 to achieving the stretching aggregate EPS targets.
which is 58 per cent of the maximum of 854,000.
In 2002, the bonus paid The maximum potential award which can vest under the plan is 210 per was 612,000 which represented 48 per cent of the maximum of 1,272,000. cent of salary, assuming the maximum bonus of 60 per cent is earned in any year, and wholly invested in LEAP and the maximum three years EPS Long-term incentive plan target is achieved.
The company has a long-term incentive plan which operates internationally.
The company also operated a long-term incentive plan in the North This is known as the Leadership Equity Award Plan LEAP, which was American business, The Pilkington North America Long-Term Incentive approved by the shareholders at the annual general meeting in July 2000 Plan, during the period from October 1999 to September 2002.
Certain and was introduced in 2001.
The plan has been designed to provide geared shares awarded under this plan remain in trust and will vest in levels of reward in the form of company shares for the achievement of November 2003.
This plan is now closed to executive directors.
Executive directors and selected senior executives are invited by the committee to participate in LEAP.
Participants are invited to invest all or The Deferred Bonus Plan a proportion of their annual after tax bonus in the companys shares.
If the Since the introduction of LEAP in 2001, the executive directors are participants remain in employment and the purchased shares are retained not entitled to participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan.
None of the executive for three years, the company will match their investment with additional directors will be eligible to participate in this plan in respect of the bonuses shares.
The matching by the company is made up of a core award and earned for 2003. a performance award.
Senior executives, who do not participate in LEAP, are eligible to The core award consists of shares to the value of one times the participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan.
This plan has been designed to participants gross annual bonus deferred using the same share price which encourage senior executives to align themselves with the interests of applied at the time of purchase.
The extent of the performance award will shareholders by purchasing and retaining company shares.
Eligible depend upon the achievement of stretching performance targets for the participants are invited to invest a proportion of their annual bonus in Group over the three year period currently measured as aggregate earnings company shares.
In return, the company grants the individuals a nil cost per share set by the Remuneration Committee.
The committee considers award to acquire the companys shares, the value of these shares being earnings per share before exceptional items to be one of the key equivalent to 1.2 times the gross value of the annual bonus deferred.
fundamental financial measures on which the financial value of the If the individual disposes of the purchased shares before the end of the company is assessed over the medium to long-term.
The use of aggregate three year period, the award will lapse.
The plan is normally offered on an earnings per share before exceptional items targets is considered a suitably annual basis.
If the individual chooses to leave the company, the award challenging criterion in the current economic environment, and is will lapse.
understood by all international participants.
A minimum level of earnings per share must be achieved for any performance award to vest, and if these Share option schemes demanding targets are met in full, the performance award will be two and The Group operates executive share option schemes for senior executives a half times the gross annual bonus deferred.
The participants in this plan in the UK and overseas.
are not eligible to participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan or the senior Since the introduction of LEAP in 2001 the executive directors have not executives share option schemes.
Core awards vest after three years.
been entitled to participate in the senior executives share option schemes.
Performance awards only vest after the Remuneration Committee has The senior executives share option schemes provide a potential reward reviewed and confirmed that performance against the conditions set in shares for improvement in company performance reflected in the share has been met.
Invitations to participate are made each year to senior executives The performance targets for the LEAP performance awards issued in worldwide, except those participating in LEAP.
The option entitles the 2001 and 2002 are currently based on aggregate earnings per share before executive to buy company shares at a fixed exercise price.
The ability to exceptional items EPS over a three year period, as set out in the exercise this option is dependent upon the achievement of predetermined following table.
performance targets based on growth in earnings per share over changes 6 PILKINGTON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003
