Premier Farnell plc Statement of Accounting Policies Annual Report and Accounts 2003 52 Statement of Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting Financial Instruments The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention Gains and losses on forward foreign exchange contracts, entered into as and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
A summary hedges of future purchases and sales denominated in foreign currency, of the more important Group accounting policies, which the Directors are carried forward and taken to the profit and loss account on maturity to consider to be the most appropriate for the Group and, with the exception match the underlying transactions.
of the expense classication referred to below, have been applied Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate hedges are consistently, is set out below.
recognised as adjustments to interest payable or receivable over the life of Basis of Consolidation the hedge.
The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of the Company and Stocks each of its subsidiary undertakings for the financial year ended 2nd February 2003 52 weeks.
Results of subsidiary undertakings Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Provision is acquired or disposed of are consolidated from or up to the date on which made against slow moving and obsolete stock based on analysis of control passes.
The financial results for the financial year ended historical data.
Deferred Taxation Expense Classication Full provision is made, on an undiscounted basis, for deferred taxation The expense classication in the consolidated profit and loss account resulting from timing differences between profits computed for taxation has been restated to reect the way in which management measure purposes and profits stated in the accounts to the extent that there is an and monitor the performance of the Group with respect to gross profit obligation to pay more tax in the future as a result of the reversal of those and operating expenses.
Expenses are now classied as follows: timing differences.
Cost of sales comprises the cost of goods delivered to customers Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent they are expected to be including the net cost of freight, packaging and inventory adjustments.
Distribution costs represent all operating company expenses including sales, marketing, product and purchasing, warehousing, information Pensions and Similar Obligations technology and e-commerce.
The Group operates dened benefit and dened contribution schemes.
Pension schemes are accounted for in accordance with SSAP 24.
Administrative expenses comprise the cost of central head ofce and Accordingly, the expected cost of providing pension benets under the Group Board.
dened benefit schemes and other post-retirement benets is amortised in Management consider that the above classication of costs is the most the profit and loss account over the period benefiting from the employees appropriate given the nature of the business.
Costs with respect to dened contribution schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as they fall due.
In prior years, distribution costs comprised gross freight costs, administrative expenses were as dened above, and all other costs The Group has adopted the transitional arrangements of FRS17, were treated as cost of sales.
Retirement Benets, details of which are given in note 27.
The effect of this change on the prior year results is as follows: Foreign Exchange As previously Reclassication As restated The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling reported at the average exchange rate ruling during the year.
Foreign currency assets m m m and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at Turnover 806.4 806.4 the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses arising in the ordinary course of Cost of sales 676.6 203.4 473.2 business are dealt with in arriving at operating profit.
Those arising on the translation of the assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary undertakings, Total net operating expenses 42.9 203.4 246.3 together with the exchange differences arising when the profit and loss Total operating profit 86.9 86.9 accounts are translated at average rates and compared to the rate ruling at the balance sheet date, are dealt with as movements in reserves.
Goodwill Goodwill, comprising the amount by which the consideration for Turnover and Revenue Recognition acquisitions exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired, is capitalised Turnover comprises the value of sales to outside customers, excluding and amortised through the profit and loss account on a straight line basis value added and sales taxes.
Turnover is recognised when the risks and over its estimated useful life, as follows: rewards of ownership have passed to the customer.
Catalogue and Advertising Costs As permitted by FRS10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, goodwill arising Catalogue costs are expensed over the life of the catalogue up to a on acquisitions prior to 1998 remains written off against reserves.
Such maximum period of one year.
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
goodwill would be charged in the profit and loss account on subsequent disposal of the related business.
Leased Assets Goodwill arising on acquisitions is reviewed for impairment in Payments under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss accordance with FRS10 and FRS11, Impairment of Fixed Assets and account as they fall due.
Goodwill, at the end of the first full year after an acquisition and in other years if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying Long Term Incentive Plan value may not be recoverable, any impairment being charged to the The consolidated profit and loss account includes the costs relating to the profit and loss account.
Premier Farnell Performance Share Plan and the consolidated and Company balance sheets include the appropriate assets and liabilities of Tangible Fixed Assets and Depreciation the plan.
Shares in the Company, held by the trust established to Fixed assets are stated at cost.
administer the plan, are shown as xed asset investments and are With the exception of motor vehicles, which are depreciated on a amortised over the performance period of the plan to which they relate.
reducing balance basis at 25% per annum, depreciation is calculated to Where options over shares are awarded to executives, the value of the write off the cost of individual xed assets from the time they become expected award is amortised on a straight line basis over the performance operational by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives, period to which the award relates.
which are principally as follows: Investments in Subsidiary Undertakings Plant and equipment: between 5 and 10 years.
Computer equipment: between 3 and 5 years.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are included at cost.
Provision is Freehold buildings: 50 years.
made where, in the opinion of the directors, a permanent diminution in No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
