Premier Farnell plc Directors Report Annual Report and Accounts 2003 38 Directors Report Principal Activities and Business Review In accordance with the Companys articles of association Sir Malcolm A detailed review of the Groups activities, the development of its business Bates, Mr John Roques and Mr Cary Nolan will retire at the forthcoming and an indication of likely future developments are dealt with on pages 10 Annual General Meeting of the Company and offer themselves for to 25. re-election.
Mr William Korb, who was appointed during the year, will retire and offer himself for election.
All of the Directors standing for election or The principal activity of the Group remains unchanged and is the re-election are Non-Executive Directors and do not have service contracts distribution of electronic, electrical and industrial products to the design, with the Company.
Additional information relating to Directors remuneration, service contracts profit and Dividends and interests in the Companys shares is given in the Remuneration The profit for the financial year 52 weeks attributable to ordinary Report on pages 40 to 45.
The details of Directors interests in the shareholders was 30.8 million 2002: 12.5 million 53 weeks.
The Companys shares form part of this report.
Directors recommend that a final dividend of 5.0 pence 2002: 5.0 pence per ordinary share be paid on 25th June 2003 to those shareholders on Supplier Payment Policy the register of members at the close of business on 30th May 2003.
An The Groups operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms and interim dividend of 4.0 pence per ordinary share was paid on 25th October conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are 2002, making a total for the year of 9.0 pence 2002: 9.0 pence per conducted.
Payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those ordinary share.
terms, provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and conditions.
At 2nd February 2003, the amount the Group owed its Acquisitions and Disposals suppliers represented 33 working days purchases at 3rd February On 28th June 2002 the Group sold DA Lubricants, the speciality lubricants 2002: 21.
The Company is a holding company and does not have any business of the Industrial Products Division in North America for a trade creditors.
Charitable and Political Donations Further details of this disposal are given in the Finance Directors review on In the US, the Group has an ongoing policy of donating certain items of pages 30 to 33 and in notes 2 and 23 to the Financial Statements.
In addition, during the year the Group made charitable donations in cash of 51,000.
Further details of the Share Capital Groups charitable activities appear in the Social Responsibility Report.
Details of changes in the issued share capital of the Company during the The Group continues its policy of not making contributions to political year are set out in note 19 on page 64.
These include the results of the parties, although resolutions will be proposed at the Companys Annual special conversion right announced in April 2002.
Pursuant to this special General Meeting to deal with the consequences of the Political Parties, conversion right preference shareholders were given the right, for a limited Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
These resolutions are explained in period, to convert their cumulative redeemable preference shares in the the notes accompanying the notice of the meeting.
Company into ordinary shares at an enhanced conversion rate.
A total of 19,530,070 preference shares were converted under this right, leading to Employment the issue of 89,838,310 new ordinary shares.
Following the expiry of the The Group places great emphasis on optimising the contribution made by special conversion right, the Company acquired 643,964 preference employees at all levels around the world.
A Group-wide Performance shares in the market for cancellation at a total cost of 8.3 million.
On Review and annual Management Audit process are in their fourth year of 19th March 2003, the Company acquired a further 197,000 preference operation.
Two Leadership Development Programmes have been shares in the market for cancellation at a cost of 2.3 million.
implemented for the top 150 managers and a series of programmes for new or inexperienced managers and supervisors have been introduced.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Company will be seeking Product training using interactive e-learning technology has been authority to purchase its ordinary and preference shares.
A change management workshop has been introduced previously granted at the Annual General Meeting in 2002, but expire at across the Group.
In addition, there has been significant investment in the close of the forthcoming meeting.
general skill development with particular reference to computer skills, marketing and customer service.
Fixed Assets The Directors are of the opinion that any difference between the book A formal job grading system exists across the Group to assist value and the market value of the land and buildings of the Company and remuneration practices as well as career development and organisational its subsidiary undertakings is not significant.
Directors Employees are informed of the performance of the Group and a The names and biographical details of the Directors who held ofce structured communication programme allows factors affecting their throughout the year appear on page 27.
In addition, Messrs Morton L employment to be discussed.
Mandel and Patrick F Sullivan were Directors of the Company until 12th June 2002.
Working in close co-operation with elected representatives from its European operating companies, the Group has established a European Premier Farnell plc Directors Report Annual Report and Accounts 2003 39 Works Council The Premier Farnell European Forum.
The Forum provides an arena for the exchange of relevant and appropriate information and constructive dialogue between management and employees on European issues.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons, with regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Efforts are made to continue the employment of those who become disabled during their employment.
Training, career development and promotion are, as far as practicable, identical for all employees according to their skills and abilities.
The Group consistently seeks to recruit, develop and employ throughout the organisation suitably qualied, capable and experienced people, irrespective of race, religion or sex.
Environment The Group recognises the importance of responsible environmental management and its obligation to protect the environment.
The Group therefore gives high priority to all environmental matters.
Further information appears in the Social Responsibility Report.
Substantial Shareholdings At 10th April 2003 the Company had been notied of the following interests amounting to 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued ordinary share capital: % AXA SA 7.32 Prudential plc 6.12 Scottish Widows 4.77 The Capital Group Companies Inc. 4.10 Standard Life Group 3.99 HBOS plc 3.95 Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc 3.69 Legal and General plc 3.06 Independent Auditors Following the conversion of  into a limited liability partnership from 1 January 2003,  resigned as auditors of the Company on 18th March 2003 and  LLP was appointed as auditor to ll the casual vacancy which arose.
A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Annual General Meeting The notice convening the Companys 2003 Annual General Meeting at the Mayfair Conference Centre, Marble Arch, London on 11th June 2003 at 11.30 am is set out in a separate document issued to shareholders.
By order of the Board Steven Webb Secretary Farnell House Forge Lane Leeds LS12 2NE 19th March 2003
