Industrial Products Ohio-based Akron Brass, the market leader in The time, money, equipment and personnel that the US, manufactures and sells nozzles and were committed to this project were fully other specialist equipment for firefighting.
justified when the distributor succeeded in In line with Group strategy, the company has getting Akron Brass products specified on more been looking to expand into new markets as a than 200 fire trucks being built for the Malaysian potential source of new business.
Over the past eighteen months, one example of note.
The country has a Akron Brass has increased its sales to Malaysia developing infrastructure with good growth in and sales are forecast to grow again this year.
the industrial sector and Akron Brass looked for a suitable local distributor.
They soon found that the best candidate was already representing some of their main competitors.
Determined to reach an exclusive deal with the distributor, the Akron team launched a campaign to prove to the distributor and the end-user market that the Akron Brass range represents excellent value for money.
Premier Farnell plc Operating review Annual Report and Accounts 2003 continued 24 The majority of the sales are The companys efforts to boost overall In slow-moving markets, generated by three businesses.
sales through the development and marketing of new products were also the Industrial Products Division Akron Brass successful, with new product sales Akron Brass is the US market leader accounting for 16 per cent of total has concentrated on in the manufacture of high revenue over the year.
performance, fire-fighting equipment re-engineering aspects of its for firetruck manufacturers, public fire In Mexico, TPC took on a new services and industrial facilities.
warehouse just outside Mexico manufacturing and marketing City and appointed an in-country Its principal markets remained slow sales manager.
functions, to improve its but stable during the year.
However, the completion of a $7 million Kent overall sales proposition.
expansion and upgrade of the Kent is an own-brand distributor of companys Wooster, Ohio facility, high performance consumable in 2001 has significantly enhanced products sold into the automotive manufacturing capacity and repair and industrial maintenance efficiency enabling the company sectors.
It has offices in nine to generate a higher gross margin European countries and a network of for its products.
Industrial Products Division Sales per day were 4.0 per cent In the face of difficult market above last year with sales to the US conditions, sales per day were Akron Brass Sales 99m municipal and original equipment 1 per cent below last year.
US Growth 2.8% markets improving, although the The companys development Canada Operating profit 15m industrial segment has been weaker.
during the year has concentrated on improving the product range, TPC Wire & Cable The business has strengthened its developing closer relationships US efforts to penetrate the industrial with customers, focusing on key Canada market, adding sales personnel and accounts and expanding the range Mexico an engineering support group.
Kent particular, Akron is targeting the oil, Europe gas and petrochemical industries The companys product portfolio where upstream and downstream has been extended substantially, installations, such as refineries and and now includes some 4,000 items.
distribution terminals, require high This not only provides customers Based on sales per day for continuing businesses at constant level fire-fighting capability.
with a broader choice, but also exchange rates expands the potential customer base.
TPC Wire & Cable TPC Wire & Cable, based in the An important step forward this year US, is a specialist distributor of high has been the decision to move the endurance cable and connector sales force from commission-only assemblies for use in aggressive to a salary-based scheme, enabling environments.
These cables are the business to retain quality people widely used, for example, to control and remunerate them appropriately.
robot arms during manufacturing Despite some disruption in France, processes.
sales productivity levels have generally increased.
The companys major markets are the steel and automotive industries, The renewed focus on key accounts both of which have continued to has been successful, with sales to suffer from downturns, now lasting these customers rising by 18 per several years.
To reduce TPCs cent over the year.
Of particular note, dependence on these markets, the Ferrari has decided to specify Kent management team has concentrated Screenfix 212 windscreen adhesive on broadening the customer base, for the 360 Challenge models, expanding geographic reach and and volume producers SEAT, developing new product sales.
Hyundai and VW have all approved Kents product portfolio has been Kent Quickseal for use in their extended substantially, and Despite the market difficulties, sales manufacturing operations.
This per day increased by 3 per cent over provides customers with a broader last year.
choice and also expands the potential customer base.
The Company has identified new sectors in which its products can be utilised.
In particular, it has focused on the mining, food and tyre manufacturing industries.
In many cases, this has required the company to re-specify its products in order to achieve industry-specific ratings.
Once the re-specified products were in place, the company successfully used its field and inside sales resources to secure orders from these markets.
benefits TPC Wire & Cable has saved a major TPCs field sales representative worked automotive manufacturer significant sums closely with plant personnel to identify in running costs by finding an effective the problem.
A new bracket was designed solution to a component problem.
to fit onto the assemblies and prevent the problem from re-occurring.
The manufacturers plant was experiencing repeated interruptions caused by failure of the power assemblies they were using.
They turned to TPC for a more robust product.
