Marketing and Distribution As we rigorously pursue our strategy of achieving growth through our focus on understanding and satisfying our customers needs, we are investing our time and resources in developing our product range and new tailored services which are aligned with our customers requirements.
Premier Farnell plc Operating review Annual Report and Accounts 2003 12 Description of businesses with our existing customers, to win Wherever and whenever we Our businesses within the Marketing new business from new customers and Distribution Division specialise in and to enter new markets.
achieve a better understanding the marketing and distribution of electronic components, maintenance, A number of the businesses in the of the needs of particular repair and operations MRO products Marketing and Distribution Division and specialist services.
are being rebranded this year.
These groups of customers we reap are BuckHickman InOne, Farnell We focus on the small volume, high InOne and Newark InOne.
Over the the reward of increased sales service requirements for these types last few years, we have made major of products of customers working in investments which have substantially research and design, small volume improved the quality of our manufacturing and maintenance, information management.
We have repair and operations activities.
increased our understanding of our customers and market segments Our area of operation is characterised and we have added a wide range of by a very wide range of products, services.
Our businesses are now some 400,000 in stock, and a large working together more effectively number of customers across almost to give customers the service they every industry and sector of expect.
The new branding economic activity.
communicates to our customers Marketing and the range and depth of the services Distribution Division Customers typically range in size our businesses provide and how they BuckHickman InOne Newark InOne from small, privately owned specialist work together in providing these UK US businesses to large, multi-national services globally.
The new visual 31 sales branches Canada corporations.
The need they have in identity and the addition of the suffix 1 distribution centre Mexico common is for a comprehensive and InOne gives us the opportunity to Brazil MCM, an InOne company wide range of products, in stock and communicate our progress at the 46 sales branches US available for same day despatch, same time as retaining the historical 2 business contact centres 1 business contact centre backed by services which meet value which resides in our existing 3 distribution centres 1 distribution centre their specific requirements.
Farnell InOne CPC UK As we rigorously pursue our strategy Building our capabilities UK Europe of achieving growth through our focus Our three year programme of 1 business contact centre Asia Pacific on understanding and satisfying our investment in front office systems, 1 distribution centre Offices in 17 countries customers needs, we are investing which enable us to gather and use Business contact centre in UK our time and resources in developing customer data more effectively is 6 distribution centres our product range and new tailored now substantially complete in our services which are aligned with our major markets.
which include customer relationship management software, data We are able to do this as a result of warehousing and data mining tools the progress we have made on our were integrated with our transactional key strategic initiatives.
We have systems in the UK in November reached the final stages of 2002 and in the US in March 2003. implementation of the software and During the final stages of development systems that provide the capability to and testing during 2001, they were exploit the vast quantities of used on a stand alone basis.
This information generated by the sheer assisted learning and the gathering numbers of transactions which are a of historical customer data in advance feature of our kind of business.
We of becoming fully operational.
have continued to improve the quality of our people, giving us the capability The customer relationship to turn that information into management software provides us knowledge.
We are using our growing with visibility of all customer contacts capabilities to build closer relationships and transactions regardless of the We focus on the small volume, high service requirements of customers working in research and design, small volume manufacturing and maintenance, repair and operations activities.
With twelve distribution centres worldwide and offices in 21 countries, we are well placed to service customers around the world.
efficiency Vauxhalls Ellesmere Port manufacturing plant The system gives Vauxhall fast access to a produces over 3,000 cars a week.
If a production range of nearly 240,000 products.
line stops because of machine failure, the delay could cost thousands of pounds as new parts The software also enables Vauxhall management are sourced.
to track performance in each production area.
In October 2002, the Vauxhall management team The VMI solution, which offers Vauxhall huge awarded us sole responsibility for managing the potential in terms of time, cost and efficiency supply of all non-production, maintenance savings, has enabled them to reduce their consumables, the components that service the roster of maintenance, repair and operations plants needs and keep the lines running.
Our suppliers from several hundred to just one solution is a comprehensive vendor-managed Premier Farnell.
inventory VMI system, under which state-ofthe-art inventory control software constantly monitors use and depletion of on site stocks.
This information is fed back to us for replenishment.
Many of the regularly used items are placed directly beside the production lines for immediate use, while others can be ordered rapidly from the place of use.
service In May 2002, Newark InOne secured a five-year The process of enhancing customer service agreement from the General Services is already underway.
To assist customers with Administration GSA under which Newark InOne selection, ordering and billing, Newark InOne is eligible to provide US government agencies has set up a dedicated team in Independence, with more than 90,000 stock lines, including Ohio, with a telephone hotline and information cable, tools, test equipment and datacom point on its own website.
The MCM catalogue products from over 350 leading manufacturers.
is now being integrated under the schedule, significantly extending the product range.
The GSA is the US governments in-house purchasing department, responsible for Newark InOnes main US government sector negotiating contracts with suppliers of all goods customers are the Department of Defense and bought by government departments.
Under the the Department of Energy and the value of sales agreement, Newark InOnes existing catalogue is expected to grow substantially over the life has been added to GSA Advantage, the of the agreement.
departments own eCommerce platform, from which engineers, scientists and other procuring officers can search for and select products for use in their facilities.
Premier Farnell plc Operating review Annual Report and Accounts 2003 continued 15 sales channel customers choose to In March of this year, we added Flexibility is at the heart of use.
This enables us to identify 11,000 new products to Newark purchasing habits and buying potential InOnes range of passive components, our eProcurement strategy and to develop services and solutions thereby doubling our range and which meet the requirements of significantly strengthening our offer to enabling us to connect with specific segments of customers.
any procurement system a With the acquisition of BuckHickman Developing closer relationships InOne, we significantly added to our with our customers customer may use expertise in managing our customers Wherever and whenever we achieve inventory on their behalf.
We have a better understanding of the needs made marked progress in extending of particular groups of customers our capabilities in this area and have we reap the reward of increased sales.
developed a wide range of solutions.
Grouping customers according to their type of occupation and by the industry As part of our ongoing investment in sector they work in, enables us to eCommerce, we are migrating to a focus our efforts and to develop greater One Platform approach for all of our knowledge of product requirements websites.
This means that our and purchasing behaviour.
eBusiness team will only have one platform to support and develop, For example, our focus on customers Americas Europe Asia Pacific enabling us to achieve much faster who specify and purchase health Sales 312m Sales 348m roll-outs of new sites, functionality and safety products in the UK, which Growth 9.7% Growth 13.3% Operating profit 33m Operating profit 42m and products.
has included the publication of a specialist catalogue and mailers, has The requirement for flexibility is at the resulted in sales of these products Based on sales per day for Including BuckHickman InOne, heart of our eProcurement strategy.
increasing by around 29 per cent continuing businesses at constant acquired in July 2001 Our technology enables us to connect compared to last year.
exchange rates with any procurement system which a customer may use.
We have the Our agreement with the National capability to develop an electronic Universities Working Party on catalogue tailored to the specific Electronic Components NUWPEC requirements of the customer.
This has been extended for a further two delivers many benefits to the customer, years until 2004 as a direct result of including more effective purchasing our investment in improving the procedures, better control of service we offer to our education purchasing processes and improved customers, including upgrading the management reporting.
functionality of the dedicated website we have developed for them.
In addition to the ongoing development of our capabilities, as In the US, we have secured a fivewe develop our understanding of our year agreement with the General customers needs, we continue to Services Administration GSA under develop our product range.
The which we are eligible to provide the acquisition of BuckHickman InOne in US government with 90,000 products.
July 2001, added 48,000 industrial This agreement represents a major products.
Combined with the offer opportunity to develop our from CPC and Farnell InOne, we now understanding of the specific have one of the widest ranges of requirements and ways of working products from one source in the of government purchasing agents.
This was a key contributory factor We have established a dedicated in the contracts we have won with sales team within Newark InOnes Vauxhall and Rolls-Royce.
business contact centre in Independence, Ohio, to handle calls Over the last year we have added from US government agencies.
US government sales in the year Telesales is one of many channels through which we reach out to our customers.
Local websites, with local language catalogues and mailers, open up sales channels cost effectively.
Premier Farnell plc Operating review Annual Report and Accounts 2003 continued 16 advanced by 12 per cent over the promoting the new products Our online services enable us previous year.
We are confident that and increased sales resulted from the schedule will add sales over its this multi-channel sales and to speed up the process of five-year term.
introducing new products to our Tailoring our offer to meet our The ongoing development of our customers needs eProcurement capabilities is driven range and to the market Our substantial investment in by our commitment to be flexible information technology signals our enough to integrate with our belief in the growth opportunity that customers systems regardless of eCommerce offers to our type of what technology they are using.
It enables us to speed up Many large corporations have the introduction of new products to made significant investment in our range, to make technical in-house eProcurement systems and information readily available, to track need suppliers like ourselves who buying behaviour and tailor our offer are capable of integrating with more precisely.
Sales through the their systems.
eCommerce channels accounted for 8 per cent of divisional turnover in We have the capability to design 2002, with year on year sales up each installation to the customers 28 per cent.
In many cases, this takes the form of a Our eCommerce strategy has two customised electronic catalogue, main areas of focus transaction accessible online by designated websites and eProcurement.
We compile the catalogue in conjunction with We have fully transactional websites the customer, choosing specific for each of the major countries in products for particular needs.
which we operate and, together with customer specific sites, the For customers, the advantages of total number of sites is 30.
Each one eProcurement are reduced total cost is customised for the local market of procurement and increased or customer, with business and control.
By reducing supplier country-specific data and reflects numbers, the cost of administration the feedback we have received overhead is significantly lowered, and from customers.
purchasing process automation contributes to further cost Customers worldwide are now containment.
By restricting buyers downloading more than 70,000 to specific products and suppliers, Achieving growth technical datasheets and over 3,000 customers can curtail unauthorised We export products to over semiconductor application directories spending.
The electronic catalogue 100 countries to realise sales each week from our websites in a can be updated rapidly to reflect potential where we do not matter of seconds, whereas changing requirements.
previously they would have had to request them by telephone and wait Developing customised eProcurement for them to be posted or faxed.
solutions enables us to build the closest possible understanding of the Our online services enable us to customers product requirements and speed up the process of introducing purchasing patterns.
Integrating our new products to our range and to the systems with those of our customers market.
For example, the test builds our relationship, ensuring that equipment manufacturer Tektronix we can consistently satisfy their used our websites for the global evolving needs.
launch of their new oscilloscopes in April 2002.
Potential buyers also Sales through eProcurement in received emails and mailers North America have increased by A key characteristic of our business is our wide range of products, some 400,000 in stock.
connected Lockheed Martin, a leading US aerospace and Having signed a global supplier agreement with defence contractor, has 25 separate the company in 2001, Newark InOne had manufacturing and assembly facilities spread already established a good relationship with across the eastern USA.
The new arrangement at commodity procurement requirements are NMAC is a further demonstration of how we consolidated within the Northern Material can develop customised eProcurement Acquisition Center NMAC, a new distribution solutions that fit the requirements of worldcentre located in New Jersey.
In this case, Lockheed Martin employees anywhere in the world can access In order further to streamline segments of its Newark InOnes online catalogue.
Having $650 million procurement programme and chosen a product, they can place an order rationalise its supplier base, Lockheed Martin through Exostar, the global aerospace online has appointed 11 strategic suppliers to work trading exchange.
The order passes to the with them on site at NMAC.
Newark InOne was Newark InOne representative on site at NMAC the first to be selected, and is now operating as who organises fulfilment and generates the one of the companys dedicated suppliers of associated back office data.
electronic components for research and development and maintenance, repair and operations usage.
technology Rolls-Royce is one of the worlds leading For business critical maintenance, repair and manufacturers of gas turbine engines for use operations items, we supply Rolls-Royce with in aircraft, ships and power generation product at point-of-use, via our vendor facilities.
With annual sales of nearly 6 billion, managed inventory stocking solution.
This it serves a customer base of more than 500 uses electronic inventory control software, to airlines, 4000 other aircraft operators and 2000 automatically re-order the stock required, with marine customers including 50 navies.
next day replenishment of stocking locations.
This is backed up by a tailored online In March 2003, we were awarded a three-year catalogue through Exostar, the aerospace and contract subject to annual review by defence trading exchange, for on-demand Rolls-Royce to supply a broad range of ordering of standard consumable products.
industrial consumables such as hand tools, safety products, abrasives and electronic components to eight of its UK sites.
The contract, anticipated to generate annual sales of around 10 million, is our largest to date.
Premier Farnell plc Operating review Annual Report and Accounts 2003 continued 19 52 per cent this year.
The adoption of This can range from the provision eProcurement continues apace with of specialist software and systems our larger customers.
The uptake to having a member of our staff varies with some customers permanently based on the customers transacting between 30 per cent and site to manage their stockroom.
50 per cent of their business with us in Every solution is different as each their first year of utilising eProcurement one is tailored to meet the customers for their electronic and MRO specific requirements.
Boston Scientific, for example, a The demand from new companies worldwide developer, manufacturer wishing to take advantage of the and marketer of medical devices with available economies and efficiencies 14,000 employees, decided that a that eProcurement offers has not common supplier for its MRO diminished.
Newark InOne requirements would increase the established 43 new eProcurement efficiency of its four sites in Ireland.
partnerships this year, taking the total It would allow the company to to 118 and a further 42 are under leverage spend in these commodities, negotiation.
Sixty-seven new reduce the complexity of procuring eProcurement partnerships were items and allow the company to focus finalised in Europe during the year on other value-adding activities.
The bringing the total to 108 and a company set out to find the best further 36 are under negotiation solution to fit its business needs and or development.
selected Farnell InOne to take complete charge of the management Adding value with our services of its key MRO commodities.
Boston In our market, the critical factors in Scientific requested an onsitesupplier purchasing decisions for our based permanently at its facilities, customers are availability of product helping it to set up, organise and and speed of delivery.
However, manage individual plant stock rooms, the market for the supply of indirect as well as offering customised materials is one in which the cost services such as a personalised of acquisition of the product can website and specialist sourcing be greater than the cost of the capabilities.
Farnell InOnes flexibility product itself.
Our customers are and willingness to adapt its services continually looking to control and to meet Boston Scientifics product reduce the cost of acquisition of needs, meant it was well placed to products and increase productivity win the tender, replacing more than and often seek to reduce the number 250 suppliers in the process.
Our ProductWatch service of suppliers they have to achieve suggests appropriate alternatives this.
We are continually improving We also add value by identifying or replacements for obsolete and our capability to assist our customers common problems faced by end of line products.
to deliver efficiencies in their customers and developing services procurement processes.
ProductWatch was developed on the strength of We offer a wide choice of channels research carried out with design through which our customers can engineers and, since its well-received transact with us, including customer launch early in 2002, has proven contact centres, web sites, itself an invaluable tool to thousands eProcurement, field sales and our of customers, providing advanced network of sales offices and branches.
warning of obsolete, end-of-line and Customers can choose the channels end-of-stock items.
The proactive which are the most appropriate for system saves design engineers the their needs.
Increasingly, customers headache of designing-in a are recognising our growing expertise component, only to discover later in managing inventory on their behalf.
that it is no longer available.
Increasingly, customers are recognising our growing expertise in managing inventory on their behalf.
Premier Farnell plc Operating review Annual Report and Accounts 2003 continued 20 The service suggests appropriate procurement personnel, which alternatives or replacements, saving enabled us to determine exactly what customers the significant amounts level of service they required.
of time, money and effort that finding substitutes requires.
In May 2002, Farnell InOne won a valuable preferred supplier contract Our ProductFind service, which is with Deutsche Bahn, the German being rolled out internationally helps state railway company and has customers cut the time spent sourcing continued to develop sales with the products.
The service is specifically French Department of Defence and designed to help customers source manufacturers Audi, Siemens, Philips, products which are hard to find and Daimler Chrysler.
The service is supported by our database of over In October, we secured a five-year six million products sourced from contract with Vauxhall, the UK arm more than 3,000 suppliers.
Under this agreement, we supply maintenance, Winning new business repair and operations materials and As large corporations have achieved consumables to the companys increased efficiencies, greater Ellesmere Port automotive productivity and better control of manufacturing facility.
The contract, costs in their procurement of expected to be worth some production line materials, they are 40 million in sales over its lifetime, increasingly turning their attention to was won against stiff competition.
delivering the same improvements Three factors helped us to secure the to the procurement of indirect contract: our unique service capability, materials.
With our broad product our range of 240,000 products portfolio, state-of-the-art systems, available from Farnell InOne, expertise in managing inventory and BuckHickman InOne and CPC and logistics experience, we are well our proposal for a vendor-managed placed to offer a solution tailored inventory system.
We have replaced to their particular needs.
several hundred suppliers and helped to cut Vauxhalls costs by streamlining The strategy of targeting large its procurement process.
corporations has produced a number of major successes in the past In November, we received a twelve months.
prestigious Supplier Excellence Award from the major US electronics In August 2002, Newark InOne was group Honeywell.
This award Expansion of our product selected by Lockheed Martin, to act recognised our wide-ranging range continues to be an area as an on site procurement specialist technical support during the of ongoing development.
at its Northern Material Acquisition introduction of their eProcurement Centre in New Jersey, which system, the overall quality and consolidates research and responsiveness of our staff, and development and maintenance, repair the efficiency of our product and operations product purchasing delivery system.
Lockheed Martin employees can now access Newark InOnes catalogue online and can buy centrally from anywhere in the world, with orders passing through the Exostar online trading exchange to the dedicated Newark InOne onsite representative.
This custom-made solution was designed after close consultation with Lockheed Martin In our market, the critical factors in purchasing decisions are availability of product and speed of delivery.
Premier Farnell plc Operating review Annual Report and Accounts 2003 continued 21 In March 2003, we were awarded a open up the sales channels cost three-year contract subject to annual effectively.
Once sales have reached review by Rolls-Royce to supply a the level that we consider justifies the range of industrial consumables, such investment, we then open a sales as hand tools and health and safety office in the territory concerned.
equipment, to eight of their UK manufacturing sites.
The contract, We established a representative office anticipated to generate annual sales in China in 2001 and also have sales of around 10 million, is the largest we representation in Eastern Europe.
have ever won on an annualised basis.
Increasingly multi-national customers are looking to us to supply the Overall, sales to large customers maintenance, repair and operations increased during the year, compared products and services required to to last year.
Newark InOnes 36 support their manufacturing facilities in designated major corporate accounts all the countries in which they operate.
contributed 13 per cent of Newark InOnes sales and sales per day on In Mexico, we have opened a sales these accounts improved by 3 per office, published a local catalogue, cent over last year.
launched a dedicated website and taken on warehouse space to supply In the UK, sales to designated major our fastest-moving products.
The corporate accounts increased free-trade area of Mexico has a large 16 per cent compared to last year.
number of US and European owned New contracts were signed with manufacturing companies, with many 19 customers in the UK during the of which we have strong relationships.
year, and all are now in the process From this base we will be able to of development.
reach beyond them to the whole of the Mexican market.
Developing into new markets With twelve distribution centres In the established markets of worldwide and offices in 21 countries, Continental Europe, the small order, we are well placed to service high service distribution sector in customers around the world.
The which we operate is characterised by international expansion of our regional and local distributors who operations is driven by demand from do not have our breadth of product existing or potential customers in a range or service offer.
The opportunity region or country, where on the basis to grow our sales in these markets of thorough market analysis we can is significant.
Our new warehouse in direct our operations at known Liege, Belgium, became operational Our on site support helps customer demand.
This year has in September 2002 and will improve customers organise and arrange seen us expand the international service levels and the cost their stock rooms.
reach of our business in a controlled effectiveness of our logistics to and effective way.
In January 2003, we acquired the customer list of the In Europe, we have recently opened electronic component distributor sales offices in Italy and Belgium.
In Merkelbach, based in Essen, Germany each case, we initially tested the in order to strengthen our sales demand for our products and presence in Northern Germany.
services through sales and marketing activity undertaken by country nationals from an existing company base.
In the case of Italy, for example, this involved Italian nationals based in our Leeds business contact centre.
Local websites, along with local language catalogues and mailers, The opportunity to grow our sales in Continental Europe is significant.
