11 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sir David John 65, became non-executive Chairman on 1 March Simon Lockett 39, joined Premier in 1995 from Shell and has 1998.
He was non-executive Chairman of the BOC Group plc until worked in a variety of roles for Premier, including the management 18 January 2002 and is currently Chairman of the British Standards of investor relations, as Commercial Manager in Indonesia and as a Institution and Chairman of Balfour Beatty plc.
Sir David is a Member Country Manager in Albania.
He became a member of the Board on of the CBIs International Advisory Board.
Sir David is the Chairman of 9 December 2003 as Director of Operations.
John Orange 61, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director Azam Alizai 72, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director in February 1997.
He held a variety of senior international in March 1997.
His career has included appointments as Director of management and legal posts during his 30 years with the BP Group.
the Oil, Gas and Mining Department of the International Finance Mr Orange is Premiers senior independent non-executive director, Corporation and Chairman of West Pakistan Industrial Development Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Corporation and Sui Northern Gas Pipeline Ltd in Pakistan.
Mr Alizai Audit and Risk and Nomination Committees.
is currently Chairman of Pakistan Petroleum Ltd, one of the major producers of natural gas in Pakistan.
John van der Welle 48, Finance Director qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Arthur Andersen.
He is a member of the Association Robin Allan 44, joined Premier from Burmah Oil in 1986 working of Corporate Treasurers and the Oil Industry Accounting Committee, initially as a geologist.
After a number of technical and new venture and is a Chartered Tax Advisor.
He joined Premier in March 1999, roles he spent six years in South East Asia initially managing regional having previously been Finance Director at Hardy Oil & Gas plc and business and more recently as Country Manager in Indonesia.
He before that spent nearly 12 years at Enterprise Oil plc in senior became a member of the Board on 9 December 2003 as Director of business development and finance roles.
Scott Dobbie 64, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director in December 2000.
He has a career background in stockbroking, as Managing Director of Wood Mackenzie and subsequently Chairman of NatWest Securities.
He is currently Chairman of the Securities Institute, of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc and of Standard Life European Private Equity Trust.
He is also a Commissioner of the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
Mr Dobbie is a member of Premiers Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Ronald Emerson 57, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director in March 2001.
He has held a number of senior positions in the banking sector, including senior roles at Bank of America, Nomura Bank and most recently with Standard Chartered Bank where he was Chief Executive of their Malaysia operations before becoming the Group Head of Corporate Banking.
Between 1997 and 1998 he was a Senior Advisor to the Bank of England, and between 1998 and 2000 he was a Senior Advisor to the Financial Services Authority.
Mr Emerson is Chairman of Premiers Audit and Risk Committee, and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Ian Gray 65, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director in January 1996.
He held a number of international management positions during his 25 years with Conoco, culminating in the position of President of Dubai Petroleum.
He joined Amerada Hess in 1995 where he was Vice President of International Exploration and Production until May 2000.
Mr Gray is a member of Premiers Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Charles Jamieson 59, Chief Executive Director is a Chartered Accountant and MBA.
He became Premiers Finance Director in January 1981, after a career with Ernst & Young and Gulf Oil Corporation, and became Chief Executive in 1992.
Mr Jamieson is a member of Premiers Nomination Committee.
Premier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2003
