10 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Punch Taverns plc A Huge Variety of Pubs A cross-section of our portfolio Punch has one of the largest pub portfolios in the UK and the whole portfolio is constantly developing through acquisition, investment and the changing trends of the pub sector.
04 02 05 01 03 06 The process known as Segmentation The breakdown 02 Mid Market Local 03 Upmarket Local segmentation has many Intense competition within the of each segment The traditional British pub as While still community pubs, benefits for the pub company sector has led many retailers to is as follows: depicted in television soaps.
these are high class outlets and the retailer.
It makes it diversify their offering.
Developing found in low density housing easier for both parties to quality food offerings, focusing Mid market locals are mostly areas.
The business will be wet 01 Basic Local understand the market in which on live sport, even adding cash situated in middle market led, but with a catering kitchen These are community pubs, they operate and be far more machines and post office services residential areas and most offer providing good food.
mostly located in high targeted with investment to pubs are all examples of how some sort of food.
There may density residential areas.
schemes and product diversification can help boost also be themed evenings, Customers reflect the pubs promotions.
location white-collar workers Trade is focused on regular Such is the range of pub types and professionals with a higher drinkers and tends to be wet It also aids recruitment, ensuring included in our estate, the Customers tend to use the pub proportion of women than led with little food.
Beer, cider new retailers are quickly Company has created individual to meet friends and relax.
and spirits are the big sellers.
matched with pubs that categories, or segments, to help Most show televised sport.
complement their skills and characterise them.
Customers are generally blueThere are 11 segments in all, collar workers and the each with their own trading and proportion of female customer distinctions.
Working out which segment a particular pub falls into is achieved by answering a series of questions about everything from location to product mix and customer profile.
11 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Punch Taverns plc 10 07 08 09 11 04Young Local 05 City Local 06 City Dry Led 08 Circuit 10Value Dining Younger customers aged 18-30 As the name suggests, these are Centrally located but offering Pubs will be on or near the Focusing on food but in less are the focus here.
Pubs draw found in city or town centres high levels of food, city dry led young persons circuit.
upmarket areas than the custom from the surrounding but away from the young pubs target the same customers premium dining segment.
Value area they are still locals persons circuit.
Expect loud music, possibly for money is the watchword, rather than on the drinking a dress code and door staff.
so pubs often attract families.
circuit but demographics are Trading is highly competitive Pubs tend to be larger and they Food is less important, while not as important as age.
and the offer will include basic may have function rooms and lager and alcopops generate 11 Venue pub food and snacks.
Distinctive, wet led pubs that The pubs tend to have a modern, draw clientele from a wide trendy feel.
Amusements Local workers and shoppers 07 Chameleon 09 Premium Dining catchment area because they including pool tables and provide passing trade in the Also centrally located but the These are food led pubs in offer something special.
machines will feature and chart daytime residents will pubs character changes from more upmarket areas.
music and video screens will be normally use the pub in the day to night to attract different Restaurant quality food served This may be live music or prevalent.
with flair will account for more entertainers.
The pub could the most popular drink.
also be a meeting point for a The venue may be a subdued specific customer group, for coffee bar in the day serving Additional facilities are likely to example bikers.
office workers and shoppers, include beer gardens, play areas but a vibrant young peoples and parking.
Customers tend to bar with loud music by night.
plan visits, sometimes around special occasions.
