17 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Punch Taverns plc Directors Report The Directors present their report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2003.
Results and dividends The results of the Group for the period are set out in the Group Profit and Loss Account on page 29.
An interim dividend of 2.1p per share was paid to shareholders on 2 July 2003.
The Directors propose a final dividend of 4.4p per share payable on 21 January 2004.
Principal activity and review of the business The Groups main trading activities are the operation of public houses.
The Groups customers are its lessees and tenants known as retailers, who enter into a lease or tenancy agreement with the Group to operate pubs.
Through these agreements, the Group generates its income from three primary sources: sale of beer and other products to retailers, rent from retailers, and profit sharing arrangements with retailers for income from leisure machines.
Each of the Groups pubs is managed and operated by its retailer, enabling each pub to retain its distinct character.
A review of the years activities and future developments is included in the Strategic and Operational Review and the Financial Review.
Directors and their interests The current Directors of the Company are listed on pages 14 to 15.
Stephen Lambert retired from the Board on 5 November 2002.
The beneficial interests of Directors who held office at 23 August 2003 in the share capital of the Company are shown below.
There were no non-beneficial interests.
None of the Directors have any interests in the shares of any other company in the same group.
There were no changes to Directors interests in shares or options between 23 August 2003 and 21 November 2003, being the latest practical date prior to the printing of this report.
Having been appointed a Director since the last Annual General Meeting, the appointment of Peter Cawdron will cease and a resolution proposed for his re-appointment at this years general meeting.
Mike Foster and Randl Shure retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
A statement of the Directors remuneration and their interest in share options of the Company is set out in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 21 to 26.
Substantial shareholdings As at 21 November 2003, the last practical date prior to the printing of this report, the Company has been notified of the following substantial interests representing 3% or more in the Ordinary Shares of the Company.
Texas Pacific Group, 21.8% Fidelity, 9.8% Morgan Stanley, 3.5% Quantum Industrial Partners, 3.4% Legal & General Investment Management Ltd, 3.0% 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Punch Taverns plc Directors Report continued Political and charitable contributions During the year the Group made charitable contributions of 1,000 2002: 6,000.
The Group made no political contributions.
Disabled employees The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by handicapped or disabled persons.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career development and promotion wherever appropriate.
The environment The Group regards compliance with relevant environmental laws and the adoption of responsible standards as integral to its business operation.
It is also committed to introducing measures to limit any adverse effects its business may have on the environment and will promote continuous improvement in accordance with best available techniques: these include a very active recycling programme at the Companys head office.
A charter exists on smoking in public places, including restaurants and pubs, which has been agreed between the Department of Health and leading hospitality industry groups.
This charter, whilst not law, is supported by the government, who asked the industry to ensure that 50% of licensed premises were compliant by December 2002.
The Group has supported this initiative and is able to report that it is compliant with the charter.
Employee involvement The total number of employees at the end of the period was 344.
The Group recognises the value of its employees and seeks to create an energetic, dynamic and responsive environment in which to work.
It places considerable importance on communications with employees which take place at many levels through the organisation on both a formal and informal level.
Employees are encouraged to own shares in the Company and the Group operates a SAYE Share Option Scheme, in which 160 employees in total participate.
Employees enter into a savings contract for either three or five years at the end of which they are entitled to purchase shares at a discount of 20% to the market price of the shares at the time of the issue of the options.
Creditor payment policy and practice It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
At 23 August 2003 the Company had Nil 2002: Nil days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Post balance sheet events As described in note 32 to the accounts, the Group concluded a refinancing on 3 November 2003 and on 6 November 2003 the Directors announced that Punch Taverns Reserve Company Ltd, a Group company, had entered into an agreement relating to the purchase of the entire ordinary issued share capital of Pubmistress Ltd.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board of Directors Neil Preston Company Secretary 27 November 2003
