Directors report The directors of RAC plc submit their report and the Authority to allot shares audited financial statements for the financial year ended A resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual 31 December 2003.
General Meeting to give the Board authority to allot unissued shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 9,625,000 which Principal activities represents approximately one third of the issued share capital The principal activity of the Company is to provide a range of the Company.
If approved, the authority will expire at the of motoring and vehicle services to individual and business conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2005 customers.
or, if earlier, 29 July 2005. Business review and future developments A resolution will also be proposed seeking shareholders The directors report should be read in conjunction with approval for renewal of the authority given at last years the operating and financial reviews on pages 14 to 19 and Annual General Meeting to enable the directors, to a limited the Chairman and Chief Executives joint statement on pages extent, to issue ordinary shares for cash without first offering 12 and 13 which together include information about the such shares to existing shareholders in proportion to their Company, its subsidiaries and associated companies holdings.
The authority being sought is for a maximum including the financial performance during the year and nominal value of 1,475,000 being approximately 5% of the likely future developments.
issued share capital of the Company.
If approved, the authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Acquisitions Disposals Meeting to be held in 2005 or, if earlier, 29 July 2005.
It is not On 31 May 2003 the Group disposed of the net assets of currently the intention of the directors to issue for cash any Lex Harvey Limited and Lex Birchwood Limited to Finning part of the unissued share capital for purposes other than UK Limited for a consideration of 94.6 million.
Details of upon the exercise of options granted under the Companys the disposal are contained in the financial review on page 18 employee share schemes.
On 13 January 2004 the Group disposed of Lex Havelange S. A. for a nominal amount of Substantial shareholders consideration and is currently in negotiation with a number Details of shareholders who have notified the Company that of interested parties in respect of the divestment of the they have an interest in 3% or more of the Companys issued remaining mechanical handling businesses.
share capital are set out on page 72.
Dividends Fixed assets The directors recommend a final dividend of 14.6p per share The Groups tangible fixed assets are included in the financial 2002 13.8p which, with the interim dividend already paid, statements at cost.
The properties are employed in the will provide total dividends for the year of 24.3p per share, business and many of them were acquired when market an increase of 5.7% on the 23.0p paid in respect of last year.
values were significantly lower than at present.
The directors Payment of the recommended final dividend, if approved at consider that a surplus over book value exists but have not the Annual General Meeting, will be made on 5 May 2004 to quantified the excess.
shareholders registered at the close of business on 2 April 2004.
Going concern The directors consider that the Company, and therefore the Share capital Group as a whole, has adequate resources to continue its Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital operational activities for the foreseeable future.
The directors at 31 December 2003, of shares issued during the year and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in of options granted under the Companys employee share preparing the financial statements.
schemes, are detailed in notes 6 and 23 to the financial statements on pages 49, 50 and 60.
Directors The names and biographical details of the current directors Purchase by the Company of its own shares are given on pages 20 and 21.
Peter Smith was appointed The authority given at last years Annual General Meeting for as non-executive Deputy Chairman on 1 January 2003 and the Company to purchase in the market up to 11.6 million of replaced Sir Trevor Chinn as Chairman at the conclusion its own shares, representing approximately 10% of the share of the Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2003.
Richard capital in issue on 31 December 2002, expires at the close Pennycook was appointed as Group Finance Director on of the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
No shares have been 4 August 2003 in place of Paul Hewitt who resigned from the purchased pursuant to this authority.
The directors are Board on 31 March 2003.
John Warren was appointed as an seeking to renew this authority i. e. for the Company to additional non-executive director on 1 September 2003.
All purchase in the market up to 11.8 million of its own shares, other directors held office throughout the whole year.
representing approximately 10% of the share capital in issue on 31 December 2003 at the forthcoming Annual General Sir Trevor Chinn became honorary life President of the Meeting.
The Board has no present intention to make such Company upon his retirement as Chairman, and also left purchases but would like to retain the flexibility to do so.
Purchases will be made only if the directors deem them to be In accordance with the Companys articles of association, in the best interests of shareholders generally.
The authority Debbie Hewitt and Peter Long will retire by rotation at the sought by this resolution will expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, Annual General Meeting to be held in 2005 or, if earlier, 29 offer themselves for re-election.
Richard Pennycook and John July 2005.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this Warren, who have both been appointed as directors since the authority at each Annual General Meeting.
2003 Annual General Meeting was held, will also retire in accordance with the Companys articles of association and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
22 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Debbie Hewitt and Richard Pennycook are executive directors Community relations and their service contracts are terminable upon one years Environment notice from the Company.
John Warren and Peter Long do The directors regard the protection of the environment as not have a service contract.
an essential part of the Companys corporate responsibilities.
Details of directors interests in the Companys ordinary Within the context of the Groups Environmental Policy, shares are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages individual companies undertake their own initiatives to 28 to 35. address their business specific impacts.
Employee relations Known environmental risks are closely monitored by Employee involvement the operating companies, Group-wide assessments of The Company believes that, to achieve excellent customer environmental risks are frequently undertaken and significant service, its employees should be well informed about the environmental issues are regularly discussed by the Board.
Companys plans and performance and have the opportunity The Groups Environmental Policy, environmental management to discuss their performance regularly with their managers.
The Company is therefore committed to providing all its systems, objectives and targets are regularly reviewed to ensure that they continue to address significant environmental employees with information on a regular basis and to encouraging their participation in schemes where they aspects and to achieve continued improvement in the Groups environmental performance.
will benefit from the Companys progress and profitability.
Employees receive information about the Company in several The Groups annual environmental report, including a policy statement, is available on the website www.
There are publications such as the annual report and accounts, the interim report and Juice, a magazine Health and safety which is sent to all employees at least twice a year.
Individual Andrew Harrison, Chief Executive, is the director responsible businesses also produce their own in-house newspapers.
for health and safety, reinforcing the message that health and The Companys intranet provides details on all businesses in safety issues are a high priority for the Company: Group-wide the Group, copies of the latest press releases and vacancies assessments of health and safety risks are frequently across the Company as well as access to a bespoke on-line undertaken, reported to and discussed by the Board.
Following the reorganisation of the Group into five interrelated divisions, the Health and Safety Policy was reviewed Open communication and feedback operates throughout all parts of the Group.
In 2003, employees were engaged and re-issued, along with minimum standards and guidance, in 2003.
A copy of the health and safety policy statement is regularly in large scale briefings from their business managing directors and Executive Board members.
Views and opinions available on the website www.
are also collected in the annual colleague satisfaction survey, In accordance with guidance provided by the Health and Safety which was completed by 87% of employees in 2003, and Commission, the Board formally recognises its collective we act positively to address the issues that they raise.
responsibility for, and individual directors each accept their Employees are encouraged to become involved in the individual roles in, providing leadership across the Group.
performance of the Company through a variety of share As part of the Companys commitment to reducing accidents schemes.
The principal schemes are the Long Service Share at work, accident statistics across the Group are analysed.
Award Scheme under which employees receive ordinary This enhances the visibility of areas where improvements can shares according to their length of service, the Sharesave be targeted and is supported by regular status reports on Scheme and the Executive Share Option Scheme.
health and safety incidents to the Board.
Employment of disabled persons Charitable donations and contributions for political It is the Companys policy to ensure that disabled persons purposes are treated fairly and consistently in terms of recruitment, During the year the Company made charitable donations training, career development and promotion and that their amounting to 124,000 2002 121,000.
This was distributed employment opportunities should be based on a realistic to a range of charities, the largest donation being a long-term assessment of their aptitudes and abilities.
Wherever commitment to the Motor and Allied Trades Benevolent Fund, possible the Company will continue the employment of BEN.
Included in the 2003 total are donations made by the employees who become disabled during the course of their Company to match the charitable fund-raising activities of employment with the Company through re-training, acquisition our own employees.
of special aids and equipment or the provision of suitable alternative employment.
There were no contributions for political purposes either in the current or prior year and the Company has no intention Pensions information of changing its policy of not making donations to political The pensions department provides the Companys UK parties.
At the 2003 Annual General Meeting, shareholders employees with guidance on pension matters during their agreed to grant the company a limited authority to make employment.
The department also counsels and assists certain payments which might inadvertently breach the employees in preparation for retirement.
provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 the Act in an aggregate amount not exceeding 100,000 in any year.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2007 or, if earlier, 29 April 2007 and the Board will not use that authority to make any political donations as that expression would have been understood before the Act became law.
RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 23 Directors report Policy on the payment of suppliers Due to the diverse range of the services offered by the Companys operating businesses, the Company does not follow any uniform code or standard on payment practice.
The operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which business transactions are conducted with their suppliers.
It is Company policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with these terms, provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
The amount due to trade creditors at the end of the financial year for the Company represents 33 days 2002 45 days of purchases received from those creditors.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12:00 noon on Thursday, 29 April 2004 at the Montcalm Hotel, Great Cumberland Place, London W1.
For shareholders, a separate notice of meeting which includes an explanation of the proposed resolutions is enclosed with this annual report.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Boards opinion is that re-election and fees of the auditors are inter-related issues and should therefore be dealt with by a single resolution.
The report of the directors has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Pamela Coles Secretary 25 February 2004 24 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003
