Directors and management Peter Smith BSc, FCA Peter Long CIMA John Poulter MA Aged 57, Chairman Aged 51, non-executive Aged 61, non-executive Appointed to the Board director director on 1 January 2003 as nonAppointed as a nonAppointed to the Board in executive Deputy Chairman executive director in February April 2002.
He is Chairman of and became Chairman on 2001.
He is Chief Executive Spectris plc, an international 30 April 2003 upon the of First Choice Holidays plc instrumentation and controls retirement of Sir Trevor Chinn.
and was formerly Chief business, which he joined in He was UK Senior Partner of Executive of Sunworld Ltd 1988 after an earlier career  until having previously been with Cambridge Instruments July 2000 and a member of its Finance Director then Chief and BTR plc.
He was Chief Global Management Board.
Executive of the tour Executive for ten years prior He is a non-executive director operating division of to becoming non-executive of N M Rothschild & Sons Ltd International Leisure Group.
He is a and of The Equitable Life He is a non-executive non-executive director of Assurance Society and director of Rentokil Initial plc.
Kidde plc, Smaller Companies is Chairman of the Audit Aud, Nom and Rem Value Trust plc and The Committee of both entities.
He is also a non-executive Aud, Nom and Rem director of Safeway plc.
Additionally, he is a member of the Finance and General Purposes Committee of the CBI and sits on the Harvard Business Schools Global Corporate Governance Advisory Council.
Nom John Warren BSc, FCA Dianne Thompson DL, Aged 50, non-executive FRSA, FCIM director Aged 53, non-executive Appointed as a non-executive director director in September 2003.
Appointed as a non-executive He is the Group Finance director in February 2002.
She Director of WH Smith plc and is currently Chief Executive his previous appointments of Camelot Group plc.
Her include Group Finance Director previous appointments of United Biscuits Holdings plc include Marketing Director and a non-executive for the Signet Group, Director directorship of Rexam plc.
of Marketing for Woolworths Aud, Nom and Rem and Managing Director of Sandvik Saws and Tools.
Aud, Nom and Rem 20 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Andrew Harrison BA, MBA Peter Harris FCA Debbie Hewitt MBA, FIPD Richard Pennycook BSc, Aged 46, Chief Executive Aged 52, Group Managing Aged 40, Group Human FCA Appointed to the Board as Director, Manufacturer Resources Director Aged 39, Group Finance Chief Executive in 1996.
Support Services Joined the Company in Director He was previously a director Appointed to the Board on 1987 and held various Appointed to the Board in of Courtaulds Textiles plc, joining Lex Service PLC as personnel and operational August 2003 as Group responsible for its International Finance Director in 1994 he positions in Lex Retail prior Finance Director.
His previous Fabrics and Home Furnishings currently leads the businesses to her appointment as appointments include Group businesses, having worked which provide outsourced Human Resources Director Finance Director of JD for the Courtaulds group since business services to vehicle in December 1997.
She was Wetherspoon, Laura Ashley, 1986.
He is a non-executive manufacturers and fleet appointed to the Board in Welcome Break and HP director of Emap plc, where operators.
These businesses January 2000 and from May Bulmer.
He is a non-executive he is the Chairman of the include Lex Auto Logistics, 2004 will become Managing director of jjbeanos and was Audit Committee.
Lex Transeet, Lex Director of the RAC Roadside a non-executive director of Nom Commercials, Hyundai Car Services business, which Richer Sounds plc until UK, Lex Defence and RAC provides vehicle breakdown 17 February 2004.
He is a and recovery assistance non-executive and senior to motorists.
She is a independent director of non-executive director, Wembley plc and Chairman and Chairman of the of Coworth Park School Ltd. Remuneration Committee, of fide Vere Group plc.
Jon Walden FCA Executive Board Secretary Aged 50, Managing Director, Andrew Harrison Chief Pamela Coles Lex Vehicle Leasing Executive, RAC plc Having previously held a Findlay Caldwell Group MD, Notes number of senior management RAC Consumer Services Committee membership positions within the Company Peter Harris Group MD, Aud Member of the he rejoined in May 1999 and Manufacturer Support Audit Committee was appointed to the Board Services Nom Member of the in his present role in January Debbie Hewitt Group Human Nominations Committee 2000.
His previous Resources Director, RAC plc Rem Member of the appointments within the Richard Pennycook Group Remuneration Committee Company included Deputy Finance Director, RAC plc Committee Chairman Chief Executive of Volvo Barrie Thrussell Group MD, Concessionaires, overseeing RAC Roadside Services the Companys acquisition Jon Walden Managing of Hyundai Car in the UK, and Director, Lex Vehicle Leasing Managing Director of both Lex Duncan Wilkes Group MD, Vehicle Leasing and Lex Retail.
RAC Business Solutions He is a non-executive director of Morgan Sindall PLC.
RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 21
