Investing in the future Integrity the heart of our business We are committed to acting with integrity towards each of our stakeholder groups customers, colleagues, shareholders, suppliers, competitors and the community.
We have a Safety Net policy enabling colleagues to raise any concerns in confidence Investing in our people and without fear of reprisals.
This is included in our Our core values were integrity commitment which developed with input from can be viewed on our website colleagues across our www.
These will help to make RAC a great place to work and will support us in delivering inspirational service to our customers: Pioneering Pace & Ambition Integrity Hungry to Learn Together we make a difference In 2003 we developed a sessions twice a year, We track our key people Dave Roberts, Lex Transeet values-based performance supported by individual manmeasures each month above left who manages the management system to agers monthly team briengs.
through our People P&L services Lex provides to the help colleagues track their account, which includes MoD from its Aldershot progress against the values.
Against industry trends, colleague turnover, stability, garrison, and Jeanette Smith This is supported by a we retained our final salary absence and satisfaction.
above right, Senior Sales common approach to learning pension scheme in 2003 to Colleague satisfaction Support Advisor, RAC and development, together maintain this valuable benefit increased by one point to Business Solutions Fleet with core development for our colleagues.
They have each programmes for all managers in the survey process received a Chief Executives and colleagues.
We recognise colleagues increased considerably: 9,923 Award for their outstanding who live the values and colleagues 87% responded, contribution in 2003.
We have invested signicantly deliver outstanding results up from 73% in 2002. in face to face communication through individual recognition with colleagues.
Every programmes in each business, member of our Executive and the cross-company Chief Board holds large brieng Executives Awards.
04 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 60 million has been invested over the past three years in systems to support our businesses in delivering inspirational service to our customers Investing in innovation and systems Understanding our customers RACs investment in customer relationship management systems is progressing well.
The systems are already delivering high quality information and improved marketing efficiencies through a new customer data warehouse.
The implementation of the systems in RAC Consumer Services was completed successfully in 2003.
Investing in RAC introduced the Rapid breakdown service Deployment Trailer RDT RAC has invested in 2003, a lightweight tow signicantly in delivering trailer stored in patrol vans inspirational service for which enables patrols to tow breakdown customers: vehicles they cannot x at the roadside, reducing the need A 5 million new automated for contractors.
patrol despatch system, implemented in 2002 delivered efficiency gains in 2003.
The design and introduction of a lightweight stowable Rapid Deployment Trailer RDT which enables patrols to tow vehicles they cannot x at the roadside.
Differentiating our service RAC expanded its range This has reduced the need Lex Vehicle Leasings 17 of roadside services with the for contractors, getting million CLAS operating launch of an innovative new customers to their system, implemented in breakdown product called destination more quickly 2002, provides an integrated RAC Solutions in July 2003, and reducing our costs.
platform for managing combining a free car check customers and suppliers.
for members with a no call We recruited additional Supported by Six Sigma out discount.
This helps to patrols in 2003 taking the Quality methodology, the prevent breakdowns and total number to 1,500, system enables Lex Vehicle supports customer loyalty a rise of 11%.
Leasing to increase efficiency by rewarding members who and further differentiate stay with us and call on our As a result of these service levels from its services less frequently.
investments service levels are competitors.
at a five year high and we are achieving record customer satisfaction rates, based on feedback from half a million members who have used our service.
RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 05 Investing in the future Investing in our brands and communities RAC plc operates through We see a brand as more our product innovation and three strong motoring brands: than simply a corporate our involvement with our RAC, BSM and Lex.
Each identity and communication stakeholders.
Supporting brand has strength in its programme.
Our brands are the communities in which markets and we invested in conveyed powerfully in every we operate is a key element their continuing development aspect of our service delivery, of this.
RAC is one of the best known BSM is the UKs largest brands in the UK, with over and most successful driving 99% spontaneous recognition school.
The business has from the public.
invested in leading edge technology to provide Following market research in driving simulators at each 2003 a new brand positioning of its centres.
of Always there was adopted, reecting the peace BSM completed the roll-out of mind the public associate of its new branding in 2003, with RACs services.
This is updating its image in line expressed in the strapline with its youth-oriented target RAC a helping hand thats audience and creating clearer always there, which is links with RAC.
represented by a translucent, orange hand hovering above The brand refresh included cars on the road.
adopting the RAC orange on the car fleet and high street The new positioning was centres and introducing a launched through a TV and new logo that shares RACs poster advertising campaign distinctive typeface.
in summer 2003 to support the launch of the innovative new RAC Solutions product.
This combines a no call-out discount of up to 50% with a free annual car check.
It was extended to feature in TV commercials for car Lex is established as a leader insurance and windscreen in the market for complex repairs, providing a consistent vehicle eets in high service approach across the full environments.
Market range of RAC services.
research shows our customers associate the Always there is also being brand with reliability and disseminated through our service.
In 2003 we invested marketing communications, in a programme to harmonise including direct mail, to our visual identity across the create a consistent and Lex branded businesses.
Much progress has been made in presenting a cohesive view of Lex, supported by an increasing emphasis on working together across our Lex branded businesses to promote the full range of services to our customers.
06 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Promoting road safety Protecting our environment RAC works with schools and We are committed to young people to improve road conserving resources safety skills through our Grass wherever possible and Routes initiative, which this to providing safe working year won a commendation conditions for our colleagues.
from the Prince Michael We have set minimum International Road Safety standards for both health Awards.
Grass Routes is a & safety and environmental national programme which management in each brings road safety skills to business, supported by the most at-risk group on training and site-specic our roads, 12-16 year olds.
An annual A resource pack, now used by environmental report tracks over 50% of all UK secondary our performance in areas schools as part of the National ranging from accident Curriculum, encourages statistics to our environmental children to assess hazards objectives against these Secretary of State for and safety measures on their standards.
This is published Education Charles Clarke MP route to school and to on our website with pupils from Langley Park suggest improvements.
Boys School, winners of the 2003 Grass Routes BSM also visits schools In 2003 Lex Auto Logistics competition.
promoting road safety received an award for waste awareness.
It gives students minimisation from the chance to experience its Groundwork, the Business driving simulator in order to Environment Association.
Our communities become familiar with a cars The business donated controls in a safe environment, savings made from its We recognise that the best way Transport related charities and takes them through hazard efficiency improvements to we can serve the community include the Motor and Allied perception exercises and a local charity, Derian House is by running our business Trades Benevolent Fund driving theory test questions.
efficiently and profitably, BEN : Motability, which generating wealth and provides adapted vehicles for In addition, RAC is working employment opportunities.
people with disabilities, giving with police forces around the them greater independence UK to provide accident packs We also support our commuand freedom: and the Bicycle to motorists involved in road nities through charitable Helmet Initiative Trust, which incidents.
The pack contains donations, promoting road provides bicycle safety information and advice, safety and acting responsibly helmets for children to useful contact numbers, to protect our environment.
cards and pens to swap details with other motorists, Charitable spend and the RAC Collision RAC plc makes donations Helpline number providing RAC has worked with Future to charities selected by our help with insurance claims, Forests to plant trees to offset colleagues and to transportVoice of the motorist car hire and repairs and carbon emissions from the related causes.
Donations RAC is proud to represent legal issues.
to charities and community motorists views through its causes across the Group annual Report on Motoring, a RACs latest road safety totalled 387,750 in 2003. large scale consumer research initiative, the Drive A!ive report investigating drivers Roadshow started touring the We support our colleagues views on a range of road country to bring road safety charitable activities by transport issues.
The Reports messages to drivers and their The policies governing our matching funds they raise findings are taken into account families.
The roadshow environmental and health up to 250 for individuals and by policy makers and have incorporates quizzes, hazard & safety performance are 500 for team fund raising.
contributed to a range of perception tests and driving published on our website Causes benefiting from this transport improvements over simulations to convey www.
include Macmillan Cancer its 16 year history.
Relief, Cancer Research UK, the British Heart Foundation In 2003 RAC introduced and the Rainbow Childrens a regular cost of motoring Hospice.
We believe index reporting on the supporting our colleagues changing costs of owning and in this way increases their operating a car.
This provides motivation and gives them motorists with clarity and pride in working for a transparency to support their business that helps them transport decisions.
RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 07
