Our services Financial services Fleet management RAC offers competitively Lex Vehicle Leasing and Lex priced motor loans, insurance, Transeet provide vehicle personal leasing products and management, maintenance a credit card to give customers and incident support for flexibility and choice.
companies who want to Roadside services outsource the day to day RACs highly skilled patrols operation of their eets.
RAC provide breakdown rescue Software Solutions is a market services to some six million leading provider of fleet and members.
There are over two asset management software.
million individual members Customer contact centres and around four million Business customers including motorists who receive cover vehicle manufacturers, fleet through our contracts with operators and insurance corporate eets, insurers and companies trust RAC to vehicle manufacturers.
provide expert and reassuring Driver training and tuition telephone customer service BSM is the UKs leading to their customers under their driver training company, own brands.
providing services to consumers and businesses.
In 2003 some 146,000 people received tuition from BSM instructors.
Inventory management Lex Auto Logistics, Multipart Universal and Lex Multipart Defence provide a broad range of warehousing, logistics and parts supply Automotive glass solutions to help businesses RAC Auto Windscreens and the public sector maximise expert tters repair and Claims management and their operating efficiency.
replace 750,000 pieces of accident services glass every year for individual Vehicle inspections RAC helps insurers and fleet motorists and for customers RAC provides vehicle operators to save time and of vehicle leasing and inspections for individual money through expert and insurance companies.
motorists, eets, vehicle efficient management of manufacturers, finance claims and incidents.
Our inspectors expert and unbiased advice gives them peace of mind and can save them money.
Vehicle marketing and distribution Hyundai Car UK is the sole importer of these vehicles into the UK.
It provides national marketing support, Vehicle supply parts supply and vehicle and maintenance finance for the growing Legal services We contract hire and maintain Hyundai brand.
RAC offers legal advice, cars and vans through Lex personal injury assistance Vehicle Leasing, and and legal expenses insurance commercial vehicles through to support consumers and Lex Transeet.
Lex businesses in the event of Commercials sells and legal claims.
maintains new and used trucks, trailers and vans.
02 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003
