Delivering growth in Business Services Our growth goals Growth in individual businesses RAC Business Solutions Lex Industrial Solutions our Grow individual which sells roadside services, mechanical handling and businesses inspections, claims handling commercial vehicle contract and accident management hire division achieved grew revenue by 10% to revenue of 117.0 million Grow relationships with 160.8 million and increased and generated a loss of major customers through profit by 56% to 1.4 million.
multi-service solutions Lex Vehicle Leasing our Manufacturer Support car leasing business grew Services our vehicle its fleet by 10% to 105,400 marketing, defence, inventory vehicles.
Revenue increased management and fleet by 5% to 207.2 million and software businesses grew profit grew by 12% to revenue by 3% to 627.9 19.6 million.
million and maintained profit RACs joint venture half share at 31.2 million.
100,000th LVL vehicle and driver LVL delivers its 100,000th vehicle in November 2003.
Left to right, Annabell Leicester and Zoe Fawcett of Lex Vehicle Leasing with Malcolm Rudrum, Vice President of customer CSC Computer Sciences, Aldershot, and Mark Gilbert, Procurement Fleet Manager.
10 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Growing relationships and delivering multi-service solutions We are building successful our contract to supply and Airside Our presence in this partnerships with major maintain the RAF White Fleet, sector increased in 2003 with customers in our five target bringing the total white fleet Lex Transeets 230 million markets, with significant provided by Lex Defence to 10 year contract to provide potential for further growth over 14,000 vehicles.
Lex fleet management services in each: Defence was also named to British Airways ground provisional preferred transport fleet services, with support Defence in December 2003 provider for a 90 million from Lex Auto Logistics and Lex Defence, in partnership 10 year support contract with Lex Commercials.
Vehicle manufacturers the with Amey plc, was named Aspire Defence Limited as services we provide to manupreferred bidder for a 500 part of the Allenby-Connaught Utilities Lex provides a facturers such as Ford include million 15 year contract to Private Finance Initiative.
range of contract hire, breakdown assistance, claims supply and maintain the maintenance and fleet management, inspections and Ministry of Defences fleet of Insurance we continue management services for vehicle leasing.
Our construction vehicles, plant to grow our relationship with utilities customers such as partnership with Ford further equipment and rough terrain major insurers to whom we Thames Water, East Midlands developed in 2003 with a mechanical handling supply breakdown services, Electricity and Scottish Power.
1 billion seven year contract equipment.
In addition, the claims management, driver for Lex Vehicle Leasing to Ministry of Defence renewed training, legal services, parts supply and manage the Ford supply and windscreens.
Lex Vehicle Leasings Everton MacDonald right is working closely with Ford Financial on the support services LVL will supply to Ford customers from April 2004 under the 1 billion contract.
RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 11
