Top row: from left to right Fousseyni Diakit, David Haddon, Bill Houston, Amadou Konta, Victor Matfield, Chris Prinsloo, Richard Quarmby and David Reading.
Management Fousseyni Diakit 46 Exploration Manager - Mali After qualifying as a geological engineer, Fousseyni worked for the DNGM for 15 years, on the regional prospecting programmes covering the Morila region and the Syama deposit.
He joined Randgold Resources in 1995 as its first Malian employee.
He is currently the Companys Malian exploration manager based in Bamako.
David Haddon 46 Group Secretary and General Counsel After qualifying as an attorney in 1984, David gained several years legal and commercial experience with a financial institution and a major South African insurance company.
In 1995 he was appointed group company secretary of Randgold & Exploration.
Having overseen the administrative obligations of Randgold Resources from its incorporation in 1995, he assumed secretarial responsibility when it listed on the London Stock Exchange in July 1997.
Bill Houston 56 General Manager - Human Resources Bill has a masters degree in human resources management and 23 years experience in human resources and organisational development.
He joined Randgold in 1992 as group training and development manager.
Bill currently heads the human resources function.
Amadou Konta 46 Construction Manager Mali Amadou has a degree in civil engineering as well as several management and project management qualifications.
He was appointed mine foreman and superintendent at Syama mine by BHP and served as mine manager from 1997.
In 2001 he was promoted to construction manager for the Randgold Resources group in Mali.
Victor Matfield 39 Corporate Finance Manager Victor joined Rand Mines in 1992 as management accountant.
He is a chartered accountant by training and was appointed corporate finance manager in August 2001.
Prior to that he served as the financial manager of the Syama Mine, and as as the financial manager of the Morila capital project.
Chris Prinsloo 53 Group Financial Manager Chris has 31 years experience in the mining industry.
He has been commercial manager with the Randgold Group since June 1993 and since 1996 has been responsible for the coordination of logistics and materials supply.
He is also responsible for the Groups risk management and insurance portfolio.
He was appointed the financial director of Somisy SA in 2000 and, with effect from January 2002, Chris assumed the position of group financial manager.
14 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2003 Bottom row: from left to right Adrian Reynolds, Sam Samak, Ngolo Sanogo, John Steele, Aziz Sy and Lois Wark.
Richard Quarmby 44 Ngolo Sanogo 41 Technical Manager Financial Contoller - Mali Richard is a qualified chemical engineer with extensive Ngolo Sanogo has a Masters degree in Economics from experience in the mining industry.
He joined Randgold's the National School of Administration ENA of Bamako.
metallurgical team in 1997, playing a pivotal role in the After teaching high school economics, accounting and development and implementation on site of the Syama and commerce, he qualified as an auditor with SEC Diarra Morila metallurgical plant designs.
His responsibilities before joining BHP Mali in 1995.
He has held positions as include metallurgical development through liaising with materials manager and senior accountant at Syama, and partner consultants and evaluating all technical and was appointed Randgold Resources Mali financial economic implications with the aid of both proprietary and controller in February 2004. in-house developed software.
David Reading 48 John Steele 43 General Manager - Exploration General Manager - Capital Projects David has a total of 25 years experience in mining and John has gained extensive metallurgical and management exploration geology.
He joined Randgold & Exploration in experience in his 16 years with Rand Mines and Randgold 1993 as group geologist for the gold mines and in 1994 & Exploration.
Upon the acquisition of the Syama Gold moved across to manage the West African exploration Mine in October 1996, he was appointed a director of the programmes.
In 1998 he was appointed manager of the Malian company, Somisy SA, and general manager of the Groups exploration activities.
At the beginning of July 1998, he assumed the design, budgeting and implementation of programmes, management of joint ventures and of new business position of general manager capital projects for the opportunities.
Randgold Resources Group, overseeing the construction of the Morila mine.
Adrian Reynolds 49 General Manager - Projects and Evaluation Aziz Sy 36 Adrian has 23 years experience in the exploration and Senior Geologist gold mining industries.
He began his career with Rand Aziz qualified as a geological engineer in 1993 and joined Mines in 1985 and joined the international resource Randgold as an exploration geologist in February 1995. division in 1990.
He is a specialist in ore reserve He played an important role in the discovery of resources evaluation, geostatistics and computerised geological at Loulo and Morila in Mali.
In 2002 Aziz was instrumental systems, and formed part of the original team which developed the Randgold Resources strategy.
His present in the re-entry of Randgold Resources to Senegal, where responsibilities include audits, feasibility studies, projects he is currently head of exploration projects.
Lois Wark Mahamadou Sam Samak 56 Manager - Communications and Cartography General Manager - Mali Lois joined Randgold in 1995.
Her responsibilities include A professor of company law at the University of Mali, Sam the production of corporate communications material and was instrumental in writing the Malian labour legislation presentations, co-ordinating the Groups conference and and brings valuable local insight into the human resources exhibition programme and the management and aspects of the Company.
He is the general manager of the integration of data captured in GIS, databases and various Bamako office and is a director of the Companys Malian subsidiaries.
