Top row: From left to right Roger Kebble, Mark Bristow, Roger Williams and Bernard Asher.
Directors as at 9 March 2004 Roger A R Kebble 64 Chairman Mr Kebble was appointed a director of Randgold Resources in August 1995 and chairman in March 1998.
With 16 years gold mining experience followed by 17 years in allied industries in the private sector, he returned to the mining industry after acquiring a majority interest in Rand Leases Gold Mine in 1992.
In 1994, he was appointed to the board of Randgold & Exploration Company Limited as technical director.
He is currently the chairman of Randgold & Exploration, JCI Limited and Western Areas Limited.
D Mark Bristow 45 Chief Executive Officer A geologist with 20 years experience in the mining industry, he holds a PhD in Geology from Natal University.
Dr Bristow had executive responsibility for the exploration and new business activities of Randgold & Exploration from 1992 to 1995.
In August 1995 he was appointed a director and subsequently in October 1995 chief executive of Randgold Resources, when it was established as Randgold & Explorations international mining and exploration subsidiary.
He has been instrumental in building and developing Randgold Resources into a gold-focused mining and exploration company and has played a significant role in encouraging the emergence of the mining sector in the West African sub-region.
In addition to the above responsibilities, during the period from 1995 to 1997 he also directed the re-engineering of the reserve management functions of the gold mines of the Randgold & Exploration Group and its affiliated gold mining companies.
He has held director positions on the board of Harmony Gold Mining Company Limited and Durban Roodepoort Deep Limited.
Roger A Williams 40 Finance Director Mr Williams is a chartered accountant with 16 years experience in finance as a management accountant, auditor and financial manager.
Prior to joining Randgold Resources in January 1997, he was a financial manager for Kimberly-Clark of Southern Africa and an audit manager with Deloitte & Touche in the UK.
In November 2001 he was appointed alternate director, and was appointed finance director in April 2002.
08 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2003 Bottom row: Jean-Antoine Cramer, Robert Israel, Philippe Litard and Aubrey Paverd.
Bernard H Asher 67 Mr Israel is now partner at Compass Partners Senior Independent Non-executive International.
His experience in corporate finance, Chairman of the Audit Committee and Member of the especially the natural resources sector, extends over 26 Remuneration Committee years.
Mr Israel was appointed a director in June 1997.
Until his retirement in February 1998, he was an executive director of HSBC Holdings plc, and was also Philippe Litard 55 chairman of the HSBC Holdings subsidiary, HSBC Non-executive Investment Bank plc, where he was responsible for the Member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees investment banking activities of the Group.
He is chairman of Lonrho Africa plc, vice-chairman of the Court Mr Litard is managing director of the Global Natural of Governors of the London School of Economics and of Resources Fund.
Prior to July 2000 he was director of the the Legal & General Group plc and a director of Morgan Oil, Gas and Mining Department of the International Sindall plc.
He was appointed a director of Randgold Finance Corporation.
His experience with the IFC and the Resources in June 1997 and senior independent director World Bank spans a period of 26 years, most of them in in October 2003. the minerals business and in Africa.
He was appointed a director in February 1998.
Jean-Antoine Cramer 72 Non-executive Member of the Audit Committee Aubrey L Paverd 65 Non-executive Mr Cramer was senior partner in Messieurs Cramer & Member of the Audit Committee Cie, a Geneva portfolio management company.
Mr Cramer was president of the Corporate Association of Appointed a non-executive director in August 1995, Dr Geneva Investment Managers and lectures on various Paverd brings 40 years of international geological topics relating to politics and economics.
He was experience to the Board.
He spent five years as a appointed a director of Randgold & Exploration in 1994 geologist in Zambia.
In 1973 he joined Newmont South and resigned following his appointment to the Randgold Africa as chief geologist and the following year moved to Resources Board in 1997.
Tsumeb Corporation in Namibia where he served for five years as superintendent of geology.
He then rejoined Newmont, in the US, where he progressed to viceRobert I Israel 54 president of exploration.
From 1994 to December 1999, Non-executive he was the group executive Exploration at North Limited Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in Melbourne, Australia.
Dr Paverd is now an independent consultant and a non-executive director of Until April 2000, a managing director of Schroder & Co Compania fide Minas Buenaventura.
Inc of New York and head of its Energy Department, Annual Report 2003 Randgold Resources 09
