Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2003 1.
Share Option Scheme The directors granted options to senior employees in accordance with the provisions of the Randgold Resources Limited Share Option Scheme the Scheme.
The following summary is included in this report as required in accordance with the rules of the Scheme.
Average Average Available Granted US$ price Exercised US$ price Total Balance at 31 December 2001 511 673 1 846 567 - 1 013 404 - 3 371 644 Adjustment to balance following increase in share capital 750 000 - - - - 750 000 Shares exercised during the period - 202 110 - 202 110 3.61 - Shares granted during the period 1 026 639 1 026 639 6.48 - - - Shares lapsed during the period 25 322 25 322 3.69 - - - Balance at 31 December 2002 260 356 2 645 774 4.92 1 215 514 - 4 121 644 Adjustment to balance following increase in share capital 240 696 - - - - 240 696 Shares exercised during the period - 1 596 645 - 1 596 645 18.04 - Shares granted during the period - - - - - - Shares lapsed during the period 55 431 55 431 3.48 - - - Balance at 31 December 2003 556 483 993 698 6.28 2 812 159 - 4 362 340 2 Election of Directors annual general meeting the Notice, as summarised At the last annual general meeting of the Company, below and incorporated into this Report by reference Messrs Williams, Asher and Cramer were re-elected the Special Resolutions.
The following changes to the Board of In the opinion of all the directors, the adoption of these Directors of the Company the Board took place Special Resolutions would be in the best interests of during the year:- the Company and of the shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, all the directors who own shares in the Resignation Effective Date Company being Messrs R A R Kebble 260 000 shares, D M Bristow 250 000 shares, B H Asher 8 210 shares, J-A Cramer 6 233 shares, R I Israel 6 233 shares, A L Paverd 6 233 shares D Ashworth 4 August 2003 and R A Williams 30 000 shares have indicated their R B Kebble 30 July 2003 intention to vote their shares in favour of the Special Resolutions.
Subsequent to year end, Mr Ferdinand Lips retired as a SHARE SPLIT a director with effect from 19 February 2004.
In the month preceding the date of this report the highest closing mid-market price of the In accordance with article 90.1 of the Companys Companys shares was 12.40 and the lowest Articles of Association, Messrs Israel and Litard retire closing mid-market price was 10.39, at current by rotation.
Both retiring directors are eligible, and exchange rates these prices correspond to have offered themselves, for re-election.
The Board has, however, considered splitting the existing 3 Special Resolutions share capital of the Company so that the The directors have considered, approved and Companys shares can reasonably be expected to unanimously recommend to the shareholders the trade at lower levels which the Board believes will special resolutions in the form attached to the notice of improve their liquidity.
Annual Report 2003 Randgold Resources 53 Accordingly, following discussions with the be able to make a distribution either out of its Companys advisers and having given the matter realised profits less its realised losses or out of its careful consideration, the Board recommends to realised revenue profits less its revenue losses, the shareholders that a share split be effected by whether realised or unrealised, and subject to the passing of a Special Resolution so that each certain solvency tests.
The Company cannot share in the Company currently having a nominal meet these criteria because of its accumulated value of US$0.10 is divided into two shares, each losses nor any others without revaluing the having a nominal value of US$0.05.
In deciding to recommend the share split to One of the possible ways in which the Company shareholders, the Board is cognisant of the fact can remedy this situation is to effect a capital that it would not affect the value of a shareholders reduction.
This would involve reducing the investment nor the Companys position vis vis Companys share premium account by the FTSE 250 Index.
US$100 million being an amount exceeding its accumulated losses.
This would effectively This Special Resolution will also amend the enable the Company to reorganise its balance Companys Memorandum and Articles of sheet, thus putting it in a position subject to Association but only to the extent required to compliance with normal applicable legal record the fact that each US$0.10 share has been procedures to pay dividends from its future divided in half and that, as a consequence, the trading profits.
authorised share capital of the Company going forward will be US$4 000 000 divided into It should, however, be emphasised that it is not 80 000 000 ordinary shares of US$0.05 each intended that any capital will be returned to the instead of US$4 000 000 divided into 40 000 000 Companys shareholders as a result of the capital ordinary shares of US$0.10 each, as at present.
Instead, it is envisaged that US$25 million being the difference between the If this Special Resolution is passed, there will be a accumulated losses in the accounts of the total of 58 521 370 issued ordinary shares of Company and the amount of US$100 million will US$0.05 each in the Company.
The directors do be transferred to a special reserve that will be not intend to call in share certificates for treated as realised profits of the Company amendment as a consequence of the sub-division available for use in the future as envisaged in of shares but, in all cases, the Companys share paragraph d of the Special Resolution attached registers will be amended as appropriate.
as annexure 2 to the Notice.
The full terms of this Special Resolution and the The Board has taken advice from the Companys proposed amendments to the Companys advisers as to the advisability bearing in mind the Memorandum and Articles of Association are set Companys objectives of carrying out a capital out in annexure 1 to the Notice.
reduction in this way and the procedure for doing so.
Having considered the matter in detail, the b CAPITAL REDUCTION Board has approved the capital reduction in the As previously advised to shareholders, the Board terms of the Special Resolution mentioned above has recently been investigating possible ways in and has resolved to ensure that any creditors of which the Company can commence the payment the Company as at the date on which the capital of dividends to its shareholders.
reduction if approved actually takes effect will have agreed to the reduction in advance in At present, although the Company has generated writing.
healthy trading profits and has significant cash on hand with cash and equivalents of As regards procedure, the capital reduction will US$102.0 million as at 9 March 2004, it also has not be effective unless and until, in addition to significant accumulated losses of approximately obtaining the approval of the shareholders by US$100 million as at 9 March 2004.
These means of a Special Resolution, the sanction of the accumulated losses, which result from the Syama Royal Court in Jersey has also been obtained.
mine development and investment and which are Therefore, if at the annual general meeting the regarded by the Board as being permanent shareholders pass the Special Resolution losses to the Company, are preventing the approving the capital reduction, the Company Company from meeting the legal requirements proposes to seek the sanction of the Royal Court that would enable it to pay dividends to its in Jersey at a short hearing to be held on Tuesday shareholders.
Assuming that the Royal Courts approval is forthcoming, the capital reduction will This is because the Company is only permitted be effective on the hearing date.
under Jersey law to make a distribution including by way of dividend out of profits available for the The full terms of this Special Resolution are set out purpose, as determined in accordance with in annexure 2 to the Notice.
certain specific criteria similar to those applicable in England & Wales.
Of those criteria, the most c COMPANYS PURCHASE OF ITS OWN SHARES normal ones used would require the Company to The Board recommends to the shareholders that a 54 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2003 Special Resolution be passed at the annual in question represent at least 0.25% in nominal general meeting approving a general authority for value of the issued shares of the relevant class, the Company to purchase its own shares in the directors would while the shareholder accordance with the terms set out in annexure 3 continues to be in default be able to withhold any of the Notice.
The authority will be subject to the dividend and any shares in lieu of dividend in requirements of the Companies Jersey Law respect of those shares and restrict the transfer of 1991, as amended, the United Kingdom Financial such shares.
The restrictions also extend to any Services Authority, the United States Securities other shares that may be issued as a result of the and Exchange Commission, the London Stock member holding the shares in relation to which the Exchange and The NASDAQ Stock Market.
The directors intend to use this authority at such Based in large part on similar provisions time or times, in respect of such number of contained in section 212 of the English shares, at such price and on such terms as they Companies Act 1985, as amended, and related may consider appropriate from time to time.
provisions, this Special Resolution - if passed Accordingly, the method by which the Company will give the Company the right to information intends to acquire its shares, the exact number s concerning the ultimate owners of its shares.
The to be acquired and the price s and date s at Board believes that this will help to promote which the acquisition s is are to take place are transparency, particularly in relation to the not presently known.
However, the proposed authority is limited to a Shareholders should note the Companys maximum of 14.9% of the Companys issued obligation pursuant to the UK Listing Rules to ordinary share capital as at the date of the Special notify a Regulatory Information Service without Resolution.
Additionally, maximum and minimum delay of any information of which it becomes acquisition pricing mechanisms will apply to the aware as a result of these amendments.
purchase by the Company of its own shares, as set out in the Special Resolution.
The maximum The full terms of this Special Resolution and the acquisition price will not be more than 5% above proposed amendments to the Companys Articles the weighted average of the listed price for the of Association are set out in annexure 4 to the issued ordinary shares of the Company for the five Notice.
business days preceding the date of acquisition of the shares by the Company.
The minimum e ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS acquisition price will be par value.
Finally, the Board recommends that the Companys Articles of Association be amended It should be noted that the total number of by Special Resolution to facilitate electronic outstanding options to subscribe for shares in the communications between the Company and its Company as at 9 March 2004 is 553 483.
options together represent 1.89% of the issued share capital of the Company as at The full terms of this Special Resolution and the 9 March 2004 and would, if the existing and proposed amendments to the Companys Articles proposed authority for the Company to purchase of Association are set out in annexure 5 to the its own shares were to be used in full, together Notice.
represent 15.8% of the issued share capital of the Company.
There are no outstanding warrants to The amendments would enable shareholders to subscribe for shares in the Company as at deliver proxy forms to the Company electronically 9 March 2004. and would also allow the Company to serve notices and provide other information to d DISCLOSURE OF THIRD PARTIES INTERESTS IN shareholders by email or via the Companys THE COMPANYS SHARES website.
For example, the Company would be The Board also recommends to the shareholders able to fulfill its obligation to provide a copy of the that a Special Resolution be passed at the annual Directors and Auditors Reports and a copy of the general meeting amending the Companys annual accounts to anyone entitled to receive Articles of Association so as to give the directors them including shareholders in advance of an the right to require shareholders to provide annual general meeting by making such information as to the identity of any third parties documents available on the Companys website.
who have an interest in their shares in the Company, and the nature of any such interest.
It should be noted that these amendments will remain subject to applicable law and any rules or It should be noted that if a shareholder fails to regulations of any stock exchange upon which the provide any such information, the proposed shares or securities of the Company are listed amendments to the Articles of Association would from time to time.
However, subject to this, the allow the directors to impose restrictions on the amendments would give the directors wide ability of the shareholder to attend and or vote at powers to make additional regulations that would a general meeting or class meeting in respect of be binding on the shareholders governing the the shares in question.
Additionally, if the shares Companys use of electronic communications.
