REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors submit their fifty-first Annual Report to the members Share capital of the Company, with the audited financial statements for the year Details of changes to the ordinary shares issued, and of options and ended 31 December 2003. awards granted, during the year are set out in note 21 to the accounts.
Review of the activities and development of the Groups business As described in the Chairmans letter on page 2 a rolling share buy The principal activities continue to be the manufacture and sale back programme to return cash to shareholders was announced of household and healthcare products.
Details of market purchases made, under the authority given to the Directors by shareholders at the Annual A review of the results for the year ended 31 December 2003 and of General Meeting held on 7 May 2003 to make such purchases up to the years activities appears under the Financial Review on pages 22 a maximum of 70,580,000 shares are given in note 21 on page 61. to 26, and in the profit and loss account on page 44.
The Directors A resolution seeking to renew this authority will be put to endorse the content of that review.
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 13 May 2004.
In August 2003, the Directors resolved to pay an interim dividend Directors of 14p per ordinary share 2002 12.7p.
The dividend was paid on Information regarding the Directors of the Company who were 26 September 2003.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend serving on 31 December 2003 is set out on page 28. for the year of 14p per share 2002 12.8p, which, together with the interim dividend, makes a total for the year of 28p per share Hkan Mogren retired as Chairman and Dieter Meuderscheid 2002 25.5p.
The final dividend, if approved by the shareholders, resigned as a Director on 7 May 2003. will be paid on 27 May 2004 to ordinary shareholders on the George Greener, Peter White and Colin Day retire by rotation and, register at the close of business on 5 March 2004. being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming In the view of the Directors, the Groups likely future development Annual General Meeting.
will continue to centre on the main product categories in which Judith Sprieser and Kenneth Hydon have been appointed to the it now operates.
Board as Non-Executive Directors since the 2003 Annual General Research and development Meeting and offer themselves for election at this years Annual The Group continues to carry out research and development in the General Meeting.
search for new and improved products in all its categories and for A statement of Directors interests in the share capital of the increased manufacturing efficiencies.
Direct expenditure on research Company is shown in table 1 at the end of this report.
and development in 2003 amounted to 57m 2002 54m.
Details of the Directors service agreements are given on page 40.
Acquisitions and disposals Acquisitions are detailed in note 24 to the accounts.
There have Corporate governance been no disposals during the year.
The Company recognises the importance of high standards of corporate governance.
It understands, supports and has applied the Employees principles set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, During 2003, the Group employed an average of 20,400 2002 22,300 as issued in June 1998, and has complied with the great majority of people worldwide, of whom 1,300 2002 1,300 were employed in the detailed provisions contained in the Code.
The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity the Company applies these principles, and the few provisions with in employment: no applicant or employee receives less favourable which the Company does not consider that it is appropriate to treatment on the grounds of nationality, age, gender, religion or comply, are set out in the appropriate sections of this Annual Report disability.
The Group recognises its responsibilities to disabled persons and Accounts.
The Company will report in accordance with the new and endeavours to assist them to make their full contribution at Combined Code, as issued in July 2003, when submitting accounts work.
Where employees become disabled, every practical effort for the 2004 financial year.
The Company already substantially is made to allow them to continue in their jobs or to provide complies with the terms of the new Combined Code and has made retraining in suitable alternative work.
certain additional disclosures in this years report in advance of the It is essential to the continued improvement in efficiency and requirement to do so.
References to provisions of the Combined productivity throughout the Group that each employee understands Code within this report are to the provisions of the Combined the Companys strategies, policies and procedures.
Open and Code of June 1998. regular communication with employees at all levels is an essential The Board comprises eight Non-Executive Directors including Adrian part of the management process.
A continuing programme of Bellamy, the Chairman, who has the responsibility for managing the training and development reinforces the Groups commitment Board, and two Executive Directors, Bart Becht, the Chief Executive to employee involvement.
Officer CEO and Colin Day, the Chief Financial Officer CFO.
The Board encourages employees to become shareholders and to The Company has adopted a Board structure which is similar to that participate in the Groups employee share ownership schemes, should of its key international competitor companies, the majority of which they so wish.
Sharesave schemes across the world now give more are based in the USA.
The Board carries out a strategy-setting, employees the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company by advisory and supervisory role and accepts ultimate responsibility for means of regular savings.
the conduct of the Companys business.
The Chief Executive Officer, together with the other members of his Executive Committee, provides the day-to-day management of the Company.
30 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 The Board has identified George Greener, as the senior independent The Executive Committee manages the day-to-day operations of Non-Executive Director in accordance with provision A.
Individual Executive Committee members hold global Combined Code.
He assumed the role when Adrian Bellamy was responsibility for specific operating functions including category appointed Chairman on 7 May 2003.
The majority of Non-Executive development, supply, finance, human resources and information Directors are independent as recommended by the Combined Code.
The three Area Executive Vice Presidents covering Europe, In this context one of the Non-Executive Directors, Peter Harf, is not North America Australia, and Developing Markets are also considered to be independent for all purposes because of the members of the Committee.
Committees of the Board The Articles of Association require that every Director will seek The Company has established three Committees of the Board, the re-election to the Board at least every three years, in line with terms of reference of which are available on the Companys website provision A.
The Board meets a minimum of five times a year and will meet further Audit Committee as necessary to consider specific matters which it has reserved to The Audit Committee, chaired by Peter White, comprises three itself for decision, such as significant acquisition or disposal proposals Non-Executive Directors.
All members are independent Non-Executive or major financing propositions.
In 2003, there were five regular Directors, which complies with provision D. 3.1 of the Combined meetings and one held by telephone conference.
The Committee monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of Directors attendance at these Board meetings, and at meetings of the internal controls and compliance procedures, reviews the interim Board Committees on which they served during the year, is shown in and full year financial statements before submission to the full Board table 2 at the end of this report.
and makes recommendations to the Board regarding the auditors and their terms of appointment.
The Chief Financial Officer and The Board has been through a number of changes during the year other senior management attend by invitation.
The Groups external including the appointment of a new Chairman.
As a result, the Board auditors and the Groups Vice President Internal Audit attend meetings considers that the first formal annual evaluation of its performance and have direct access to the Committee.
should be carried out after the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2004.
At this time the Chairman will have held office for a year Remuneration Committee and new appointments to the Board will have held office for some The Remuneration Committee meets regularly to review remuneration six months.
The performance of the Chief Executive Officer, and of policy for Directors and senior executives.
The Committee comprises other members of the Executive Committee, is regularly reviewed four members, of which two are considered independent as defined by by the Remuneration Committee of the Board.
the standards of the new Combined Code.
The Executive Committee presents an annual strategic review and Peter Harf is a representative of a substantial shareholder, and the Annual Plan to the Board for its approval.
Actual performance Adrian Bellamy is the Chairman of Reckitt Benckiser.
The Board is against satisfied that their personal integrity and their experience make them the Plan is presented to the Board at each of its regular both highly effective members of the Board and the Remuneration meetings and any changes to forecasts as a result of current Committee.
The Committee is not responsible for making decisions on the All members of the Board receive timely reports on items arising Chairman's remuneration.
at meetings of the Board to enable them to give due consideration to such items in advance of the meetings.
Nomination Committee Non-Executive Directors receive appropriate briefings on the Company The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating candidates and its operations around the world when they are appointed to for the approval of the Board to fill vacancies on the Board of Directors.
They are encouraged to visit the Companys offices and During the year two new appointments have been made to the factories, whenever the opportunity presents itself, where they can Board.
An external search consultancy was employed to seek be briefed on the local business operations.
The Board endeavours candidates for appointment.
The Nomination Committee reviewed to hold one meeting each year at one of the operating units.
each candidate as presented by the consultancy and all members of the Committee were involved in the interview process before making All the Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is their recommendations to the full Board.
All members of the Board responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that were given the opportunity to meet the recommended candidates the Company complies with all applicable rules, regulations and prior to their appointment.
The Committee comprises the Chairman, obligations governing the Companys operations.
A procedure who also chairs the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer and exists for the Directors to take independent professional advice, two Non-Executive Directors.
if necessary, in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
The members of the Executive Committee are appointed to the Committee by the Chief Executive Officer who leads the Committee.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 31 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Internal control Monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls is monitored The Board acknowledges that it has overall responsibility for the regularly through a combination of management review, selfGroups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, assessment and internal and external audit.
The results of external and has established a control structure designed to manage the and internal audit reviews are reported to and considered by the achievement of business objectives.
The system complies with the Audit Committee, and actions are taken to address significant control Smith Report guidance on internal control and provides reasonable, matters identified.
The Audit Committee also approves annual but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
internal audit plans and is responsible for performing the ongoing review of internal control on behalf of the Board.
Throughout the year the Group has had in place an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks and The Board confirms that reviews of the appropriateness and opportunities faced by the Group and the Board has performed a effectiveness of the system of internal control throughout the specific assessment of internal control for the purpose of this Annual financial year have been satisfactorily completed in compliance with Report.
The Groups control environment is supported by a Code of provision D. 2.1 of the Combined Code.
In particular major risks have Business Conduct and a range of policies on Corporate Responsibility.
been identified and ongoing monitoring procedures are in place.
Other key elements within the internal control structure are Group policy in respect of non-audit services provided by summarised as follows: external auditors The Board and management as set out above the Board performs The Audit Committee and the Chief Financial Officer keep under a strategy-setting, advisory and supervisory role with the day-to-day review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
management of the Company being undertaken by the Executive The Committee reviews the nature and level of non-audit services Committee.
The Chief Executive Officer and other Executive undertaken by the external auditors each year to satisfy itself that Committee members have clearly communicated the Group vision, their independence.
The Board recognises that in there is no effect on strategy, operating constitutions, values and business objectives certain circumstances the nature of the advice required may make it across the Group.
more timely and cost effective to appoint the external auditors who already have a good understanding of the Group.
Any significant IT Organisational structure during the year, the Group has consultancy projects are put out to tender and the external auditors restructured its internal organisation and now operates three are excluded from this tender process.
area management organisations, Europe, North America Australia and Developing Markets and centralised functions covering category The external auditors report to the Board of Directors and the Audit management, supply, sales, finance and legal, information services Committee on the actions they take to comply with professional and and human resources.
Throughout the organisation, regulatory requirements and with best practice designed to ensure the achievement of business objectives and the establishment their independence from the Group, including periodic rotation of of appropriate risk management and internal control are embedded the lead engagement audit partner.
Details of non-audit services are in the responsibilities of line executives.
set out in note 3 to the accounts.
Budgeting there is an annual planning process whereby detailed Corporate responsibility operating budgets for the following financial year are prepared For the Companys range of policies covering the areas of corporate and are reviewed by the Board.
Long-term business plans are also responsibility, please refer to the separate report on page 27. prepared and are reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Relations with shareholders Management reporting there is a comprehensive system of The Board is committed to effective communication between the management reporting.
The financial performance of operating units Company and its shareholders.
The Executive Directors with the and the Group as a whole is monitored against budget on a monthly Senior Vice President and the Manager Investor Relations meet basis and is updated by periodic forecasts.
Area and functional regularly with institutional shareholders and financial analysts, in executives also perform regular business reviews with their Europe and North America, to discuss matters relating to the management teams, which incorporate an assessment of key risks Companys business strategy and current performance issues.
The Board receives regular monthly reports from the Chief Executive Officer which include updates on the share price development, major Risk management as part of the ongoing risk and control process buyers and sellers of shares and on investor views, including analyst operating units review and evaluate risks to the achievement of reports on the industry and specifically on the Company.
Feedback business objectives and the Board reviews those significant risks which on presentations and roadshow meetings with institutional investors might impact on the achievement of corporate objectives.
Mitigating is presented by the Executive Directors following twice yearly controls together with any necessary actions are identified and roadshows in Europe and North America.
The Chairman is available implemented.
To this end, key corporate risks include the ongoing to discuss governance and strategy with major shareholders should development of the new product pipeline, protection of intellectual The Company believes that it is such a dialogue be requested.
property, financial and business controls in emerging markets and important that it makes its key executives available, wherever continuing recruitment and retention of high quality management.
possible, to discuss matters of concern with its shareholders.
Operating unit controls each operating unit maintains internal The Companys Annual General Meeting is used as the main controls, which are appropriate to its own business environment.
opportunity for the Directors to communicate with private investors.
Such controls must be in accordance with Group policies and include management authorisation processes, to ensure that all commitments on behalf of the Group are entered into after appropriate approval.
In particular, there is a structured process for the appraisal and authorisation of all material capital projects.
32 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 Charitable and political donations Policy on the payment of creditors Contributions to charitable organisations in the UK amounted It is the Companys policy to follow the CBI Prompt Payers Code.
No political donations were made This policy requires the Company to agree the terms of payments 2002 nil.
with its suppliers, to ensure that those suppliers are aware of those terms and to abide by those terms.
Copies of the Code are available Annual General Meeting from CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU.
The notice convening the fifty-first Annual General Meeting of As at 31 December 2003 the Company did not have any amounts the Company to be held on Thursday, 13 May 2004 at 11.15 a. m. due to its suppliers 2002 nil.
at The Thistle London Heathrow Hotel, Bath Road, Longford, West Drayton, Middlesex UB7 0EQ is contained in a separate Directors responsibilities document for shareholders.
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditors report set out on page 41, is made with a view to Auditors distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their Directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they be reappointed will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each year which give a true and fair view Other information of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end As at 1 March 2004 the Company had received the following notices of the year, and of the profit or loss for the year.
of substantial interests 3% or more in its ordinary share capital: The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements on 1.
JAB Investments BV: 111,105,415 shares 15.7% of the issued pages 42 to 67 including the information on Directors remuneration share capital.
on pages 35 to 40, the Company has used appropriate accounting 2.
Legal & General Investment Management Ltd: 23,276,042 shares policies consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent 3.3% of the issued share capital.
judgements and estimates, and that all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the By order of the Board financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
Elizabeth Richardson The Directors are also responsible for ensuring that reasonable Company Secretary procedures are being followed for safeguarding the assets of the Group, 103-105 Bath Road and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
Slough, Berks SL1 3UH 12 March 2004 The Directors are required to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Going concern The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The Group is planning to adopt IFRS for the year ending 31 December 2005 as required by EU and UK legislation.
The adoption process is being managed by a project team and includes a number of key stages, such as assessing the effect of IFRS on existing accounting policies, calculating the effect of adopting IFRS on internal and externally reported numbers, ensuring that the appropriate management and financial reporting systems are in place to meet the requirements and communicating the effects on financial information to internal and external stakeholders at appropriate points during the adoption process.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 33 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Table 1 Interests in the share capital of the Company The Directors in office at the end of the year had the following beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company: 1 March 2004 31 December 2003 31 December 2002 Adrian Bellamy 11,152 11,152 8,380 Bart Becht 758,911 758,911 736,753 Colin Day 82,688 82,688 80,882 George Greener 2,398 2,398 2,000 Peter Harf 840,464 840,464 799,518 Kenneth Hydon 3,000 3,000 Ana Maria Llopis 3,380 3,380 1,175 Judith Sprieser 1,000 Peter White 1,398 1,398 1,000 Hans van der Wielen 10,000 10,000 9,270 Notes 1 Except as shown, no person who was a Director or a member of a Directors family on 31 December 2003 had any notifiable share interests in any subsidiary of the Company.
2 The Companys Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe.
Table 2 Attendance at meetings In 2003, there were six Board meetings, four Audit Committee meetings, three Remuneration Committee meetings and one Nomination Committee meeting.
Attendance at these meetings by individual Directors is given in the table below.
Number of meetings attended Note Board  Hkan Mogren retired 7 May 2003 2 2 Adrian Bellamy 631 Bart Becht 61 Colin Day 6 George Greener 63 Peter Harf 531 Kenneth Hydon appointed 1 December 2003 a Ana Maria Llopis 64 Judith Sprieser appointed 21 August 2003 b 2 Dieter Meuderscheid resigned 7 May 2003 2 2 Peter White 64 1 Hans van der Wielen 54 Notes a No meetings of the Board were held between 1 December 2003 and the year end.
b Judith Sprieser was appointed a member of the Remuneration Committee on 11 November 2003.
No meetings of the Committee were held between 11 November 2003 and the year end.
c In addition to the formal meetings, two written resolutions of the Board were passed during the year, one written resolution of the Nomination Committee and one written resolution of the Remuneration Committee.
Written resolutions are required to be signed by all Directors on the Board or serving on the relevant Committee.
