THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE A TRULY MULTI-NATIONAL BOARD AND EXECUTIVE TEAM.
WE BELIEVE THAT COMBINING TALENTED PEOPLE FROM DIFFERENT PROFESSIONAL AND CULTURAL BACKGROUNDS IN ACTION-ORIENTED TEAMS GIVES US A COMPETITIVE EDGE.
The Board is responsible for the overall stewardship of the Company on behalf of shareholders.
The Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Company and reflects the overall management structure.
The Board Adrian Bellamy 62, British # Dr George Greener 58, British Judith Sprieser 50, American Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1996 Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Company in 1999 and became Non-Executive and the Senior Non-Executive Director in May 2003.
She is Chief Executive Officer of Chairman in May 2003.
He is Executive Chairman of He is Chairman of British Waterways and The Big Transora, Inc. an e-commerce software and The Body Shop International Plc, Chairman of Gucci Food Group Plc.
He is also a Non-Executive Director service company.
Judith was previously Executive Group NV and a Director of The Gap, Inc, The Robert of JP Morgan Fleming American Investment Trust plc.
Vice President formerly Chief Financial Officer of Mondavi Corporation and Williams-Sonoma, Inc. Sara Lee Corporation.
She is also a Director of Colin Day 48, British Allstate Insurance Company, USG Corporation and Bart Becht 47, Dutch # Joined Reckitt Benckiser in September 2000 from Kohls Corporation.
Joined the Board in 1999 on his appointment as Aegis Group plc where he was Group Finance Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
He is a Non-Executive Director Kenneth Hydon 59, British Chief Executive of Benckiser Detergents, subsequently of easyJet plc as well as the Bell Group Plc.
Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Benckiser N. V. since 1995 and Chairman of December 2003.
He is Financial Director and has Peter White 62, British # Benckiser's Management Board from May 1999. been a member of the Board of Vodafone plc since Chairman of the Audit Committee, was appointed He is a Non-Executive Director of Prudential plc.
He is a Director of several subsidiaries of a Non-Executive Director in December 1997.
He was Vodafone plc and also a member of the Board of Hans van der Wielen 60, Dutch previously Group Chief Executive of Alliance & Representatives of the Verizon Wireless partnership Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Leicester Plc.
He has recently been appointed a Company in 1999.
He was President and Chief Dr Ana Maria Llopis 53, Spanish Non-Executive Director of Tesco plc.
Executive Officer of Koninklijke Numico N. V. until Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in May 2002 and Chairman of Pink Roccade until Member of the Audit Committee November 1998.
She is Executive Vice President of December 2003.
He is a Director of Gouda Vuurvast.
Member of the Remuneration Committee the Financial and Insurance Markets at Indra.
She # Member of the Nomination Committee Dr Peter Harf 57, German # was previously CEO of Open Bank for six years Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, joined Banco Santander on-line bank.
She was appointed the Board as a Non-Executive Director in 1999 and a Non-Executive Director of British American is the Deputy Chairman.
He is Chairman of Coty Inc. Tobacco PLC in 2003. and a Director of Interbrew and the Brunswick Corporation.
He is Chief Executive Officer of Joh.
28 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 The Executive Committee Elio Leoni Sceti 38, Italian Alain Le Goff 51, French Frank Ruether 51, German Executive Vice President, Category Development.
Was appointed Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
Joined Joined Benckiser in 1992 serving in various EVP for Operations at Benckiser in October 1996.
Benckiser in July 1996 as Personnel Director and marketing roles and as General Manager of He joined the company in 1986, serving as was appointed SVP Human Resources in March Germany and Italy.
Following the merger in Industrial Director in France, Monaco and Germany 1997.
He was previously with Mars, 19861996, 1999, Elio was promoted to Senior Vice President, and as Logistics Director for the group.
He was as Director of Compensation & Benefits Europe.
North American Household and was appointed previously with Lesieur.
Frank is responsible for human resources EVP, Category Development in July 2001.
Alain is responsible for the global supply chain management, remuneration and benefits, and Elio was previously with Procter & Gamble in Italy including procurement, manufacturing, organisational development.
Also responsible for Colin Day 48, British Elio is responsible for global category development, management of Squeeze and X-trim gross margin Chief Financial Officer.
Joined Reckitt Benckiser research & development, media and market research.
in September 2000 from Aegis Group plc where he Tony Gallagher 48, British Bart Becht 47, Dutch was Group Finance Director from 1995.
Prior to Senior Vice President, Information Services.
Joined Benckiser in 1988 that he was at Kodak, British Gas, fide La Rue Benckiser in September 1997.
He was previously and served as General Manager in Canada, the UK, Group plc and ABB Group.
CEO of InfoSol, a systems integration and consulting France and Italy before being appointed Chief Colin is responsible for financial controls and company in the Middle East.
Prior to that, he was Executive of Benckiser Detergents, subsequently reporting, treasury, tax, corporate development, at Integraph and Mitel.
He was appointed Chief legal affairs and internal audit.
Executive Officer of Reckitt Benckiser following the Tony is responsible for global information systems merger in December 1999.
He was previously with Erhard Schoewel 55, German and services and telecommunications.
Procter & Gamble both in the US and Germany.
Joined Benckiser Freddy Caspers 42, German in January 1979 and served as General Manager of Bart is Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Executive Vice President, Developing Markets.
Germany and of Propack Europe private label.
Joined Benckiser in January 1998 as EVP for Eastern Javed Ahmed 44, Pakistani He was General Manager of Italy 19951996.
He previously served in PepsiCo in a variety Executive Vice President, North America and Australia From 1996 to 1999 he was EVP, Central Europe.
of international sales and marketing assignments.
and Regional Director North American Household He was previously with PWA Waldhof.
Freddy is responsible for Africa Middle East, Asia Joined Benckiser in 1992 as General Manager, Erhard is responsible for all European markets, and Latin America.
Canada and in 1995 became General Manager, UK.
Appointed SVP North American Household in 2001 and EVP, North America and Australia in September 2003.
Prior to joining Benckiser, he previously worked with Procter & Gamble and Bain & Company.
Javed is responsible for North America and Australia New Zealand.
