OUR PASSION FOR SPEED 10 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 OUR PASSION FOR SPEED WE MOVE QUICKLY.
SPEED IS CRITICAL IN NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT.
WE RUSH OUR PRODUCTS TO MARKET TO MAKE THE CONSUMER HAPPIER, FASTER Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 11 OUR PASSION FOR SPEED On schedule, during Spring 2003, we were ready to go.
We had The team kept this show running 24 hours a a mop that worked and could be made in enough quantities for a day, overcoming all difficulties encountered in multi-national launch.
order to deliver the very challenging timings.
Dimitris Panagopoulos Supply Director Eastern Europe Jacques Van Diepen Technical leader When we find a solution like Dettol Easy Mop that makes household drudgery easier, we cant wait to get it into households.
Rachel Crebier Category Marketing Manager, Surface Care Brilliant shine, fresh fragrance, faster speed.
Sometimes, even fast-acting television is not fast Following the success of our 3in1 dishwasher tablet, we enough.
To boost Vanish Oxi actions simple demowere determined to improve it even further.
commercials, we performed the same demo live in Insight identified two improvements, more shine and new Italian supermarkets, showing people what theyd fragrance.
We already had an answer with our orange seen on television.
fragrance in North America so we scheduled an early This multi-media barrage closed the usual credibility launch for a new fragrance line-up in Spring 2003. gap but created gaps on supermarket shelves in a The challenge was to see if we could meet our goal of an country where distribution is notoriously slow to build improvement in shine performance at no extra production up.
Within just one month, stores were out of stock.
Initial indications suggested we needed at least 12 So, in a matter of days, our factories increased their months to perfect the right formula, but by working capacity and maintained the sales momentum.
In fact, intensively as a project team we were able to come up during six months, more than 2 million Italian families with a solution six months early, achieving a simultaneous bought Vanish Oxi action, achieving Italys fastest ever launch and beating the previous shine performance new-product penetration.
Paolo Cavallo Senior Vice President, Regional Director, So now we have 3in1 Brilliant all the convenience of Southern Europe 3in1 but with our best ever shine performance on glass and cutlery, and it comes with a whole new fragrance line-up, regular, lemon and orange.
Two new benefits for consumers.
And all delivered six months early.
Bruce McCarthy Category Marketing Manager, Automatic Dishwashing 12 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 OUR PASSION FOR SPEED One challenge was to fit the large pack on any size retail shelf.
It was a difficult learning curve, however the By printing the front face on five of the six panels we enabled learnings taken from this sourcing project are now flexibility in orientation and accessibility for our consumers.
benefiting other projects in the pipeline Edwin Driesenaar Global Trade Marketing Damien fide Pompignan Purchasing WE MOP UP BORING TIME Its hardly a unique insight to realise that On schedule, during Spring 2003, we were ready housewives hate mopping floors.
We had a mop that worked and could be is a chore and a bore.
So when we made in enough quantities for a multi-national came across a prototype mop that could launch.
We developed impactful ease this drudgery we were determined packaging that worked on any to get it into consumers hands fast.
We created advertising that The Easy Mop saves time and effort highlighted the Easy Mop's and is contemporary and hygienic.
ease of use and Dettols A separate buckets not needed, as the reassuring brand name.
liquid floor cleaner is carried inside the mop-head, its flow controlled by a Despite complex trigger on the handle.
After mopping, the technical, design and absorbent pads on the head can be thrown away.
sourcing issues, we made a household task We found the solution in China.
Adding the easier for consumers.
Dettol branding added excitement and putting And that's what we the Dettol bottle in the head added weight where always strive for.
Testing the prototype in focus groups told us that we were onto a winner.
We told ourselves that we had to rush the Dettol Easy Mop to market.
When we find a solution that makes a household task easier, we cant wait to get it into households.
We put together a multi-national, multi-functional team.
Our technical people more or less moved to China where they co-ordinated the design and production.
Weekly conference calls, despite the team working across many time zones, kept the project on track.
This was a huge technical challenge as wed never made a mop before.
The time-frame was equally challenging.
