OUR PASSION FOR COST-CONTROL 18 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 OUR PASSION FOR COST-CONTROL WEVE AN APPETITE FOR COST IMPROVEMENTS.
IN ALL AREAS OF THE BUSINESS, WE MONITOR AND CONTROL EVERY ITEM OF EXPENDITURE Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 19 OUR PASSION FOR COST-CONTROL Im passionate about squeezing out production costs.
Americans are passionate about squeezing out Frenchs Mustard.
In this project, both passions were satisfied.
Elliott Penner President, Food, North America FRENCHS MUSTARD?
To Americans, the Frenchs Mustard pack has We cured the clogged-up cap problem by always been a bit of an icon.
Their only gripes, introducing a pressure-sensitive silicon valve revealed in consumer focus groups, were that that left the cap clear after each squeeze.
the plastic bottle could be hard to squeeze Finally, the new shape also provides for better and that its cap could clog-up with messy branding and consumer recognition.
Looking at the results of the exercise, the To our technicians, the pack was a bad figures are impressive.
Costs are down and utilisation of space.
It wasted space in the pack, sales and market shares are up, with 87% in the outer case, on the pallet, in the delivery of consumers agreeing that the new bottle truck, in the warehouse and on the supermarket is easier to squeeze and leaves less mess.
It was also expensive to produce.
The annualised cost savings add up to $2 million: especially important in the Our consumer insights, customer insights, ever-changing world of raw materials and technical insights and financial insights came commodity prices.
together in what must be the ultimate Squeeze project.
And consumers around the The process started with a hard look at the world can happily squeeze Frenchs plastic material.
We decided that it was too to their hearts content.
As a result, it was hard to squeeze and heavy on costs.
By bringing in a lighter, more squeezable plastic, we satisfied our consumers needs and we satisfied our own need to drive down production costs.
We also examined the shape.
Testing various alternatives to the wasteful round pack we found a shape that our consumers preferred and that allowed us to pack 16 units in a case previously taken up by 12.
Two benefits of this space-saving move were that we reduced the risk of out-of-stock situations and we cut retailers shelffilling and warehouse labour costs.
20 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 OUR PASSION FOR COST-CONTROL Cut complaints.
Trimming out the costs There was just one snag with Lysol Wipes.
We hate wasting money that can be better invested Consumers complained that they had elsewhere.
Our X-trim programme is about supply problems getting them out of the pack.
savings through better purchasing, better As we looked at the problem, we also saw manufacturing configuration and more efficient a cost-cutting opportunity.
We see them delivery logistics.
We are harnessing the power of the internet to Basically, the pack opening was over-specified.
improve our buying of raw materials and packaging Too much plastic was making the wipes too through e-auctions.
They are not only quicker, they difficult to remove.
It didnt take us long to result in better prices for us.
simplify the pack and solve the problem.
In In our factories we have many projects to improve one move we shaved hundreds of thousands efficiency.
We saved 25% on glue costs in one of pounds from production costs and reduced US factory by changing the dispense method.
a frustrating consumer niggle to nil.
Switching our filler from stainless steel to plastic saved $80,000 in our Toronto factory.
We also find ways to save transport costs.
Mixing our autodish powder locally in Australia saved over half a million dollars.
Filling up our trucks, and effectively routing them on a daily basis reduces our freight costs in North America and Europe.
Amedeo Fasano Senior Vice President, All these savings can be recycled back into growing Supply, North America Australia our business.
That is why we love to cut costs.
Grant Allen Squeeze and X-trim Director Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 21
