OUR PASSION FOR COMMUNICATION ITS NOT ENOUGH FOR OUR ADS TO BE INFORMATIVE.
THEY MUST ALSO BE PERSUASIVE.
WE TURN OUR MEDIA BUDGETS INTO EFFECTIVE ADVERTISING 14 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 OUR PASSION FOR COMMUNICATION Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 15 OUR PASSION FOR COMMUNICATION WHEN FEELINGS LEAD FUNCTIONS A feeling that lasts.
Its unusual for a Reckitt sandpaper-skin, she pushes him on the sofa and Benckiser commercial to dwell on feelings.
Out with the Veet Normally we make hard-nosed claims about mousse, off with the hair on her legs.
change of clothes and shes ready to greet her man.
The romantic interlude takes place and the Our Veet team, for instance, is concerned clock ticks one minute forward.
The man turns his with making hair removal less of a chore, by attention to the television: Veet.
If only every bringing in a stream of product improvements.
feeling lasted as long, says the announcer.
They get excited by depilatories that work at room temperature.
The scenario proves that even our most hardheaded marketers can be passionate too.
When talking and listening to women, though, theyre reminded of Veets other benefits.
Smooth, sexy legs, to name but two.
As we communicate the merits of Veet, therefore, we need to remember the heart as well as the head.
Fast-acting wax is one thing, but smooth skin that sparks a mans passion is something else.
A feeling that lasts advertising campaign came to be created.
Inspired by a mix of consumer insights, it combines Veets rational and irrational benefits.
Different commercials feature different Veet brands, building a consistent Veet proposition and personality by accentuating the long-lasting effect and irresistible results.
The storyline of the Veet mousse commercial makes the point: Girl surprised by knock on the door.
Shock horror its her boyfriend.
Aghast at her 16 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 OUR PASSION FOR COMMUNICATION Improving the functional benefits of our products is a passion of ours obsession, some might say.
But we mustnt forget their emotional benefits.
Paul Karafotas General Manager, Czech Republic Carinne Jansz Marketing Manager, Personal Care, UK How to sell Harpic: offer to buy toilets.
Historically, use of branded toilet cleaners in India has been low, at around 10%.
Our challenge was to prove that Harpic kills germs more effectively than commodity products.
Our solution was to run commercials inviting viewers to challenge our claim.
If we cant clean your stained toilet, we promised, well buy you a new one.
We then filmed livecommercials featuring our soap star visiting homes to meet the challenge.
We practically doubled Harpic sales without having to buy a single new toilet.
Chander Sethi Regional Director, South Asia Vanishing ketchup, coffee and red wine GERMAN FABRIC TREATMENT MARKET Vanish Oxi action is now promoted in virtually every 35 country in which we advertise.
The proposition is the 30 same.
The creative execution is the same.
Only the stains 25 are different.
20 When we develop a good idea, such as Vanish Oxi actions 15 real-life demo, we merchandise it mercilessly.
Taking the 10 same message to different markets means that we spread % Jan Mar May Jul Sep Nov the word and our penetration quickly and cost Vanish effectively.
In Germany, we shifted Vanish Oxi action from nowhere to No 1 in just four months.
Laurent Faracci Marketing Director, Germany Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 17
