DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors have pleasure in presenting to the members Statement of Directors responsibilities Going concern their report and the financial statements for the year ended The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to The Directors have considered the Groups financial position 30 June 2003. prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a and trading prospects and consider they have a reasonable true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the expectation for stating that Redrow plc has adequate resources to Principal activities and business review Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit of the continue trading for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they The principal activities of the Group are housebuilding and Group for that period.
In preparing the financial statements the continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the commercial property development.
Directors ensure that suitable accounting policies have been used financial statements.
and applied consistently, that reasonable and prudent judgements Turnover and profit on ordinary activities before taxation are Substantial shareholdings and estimates have been made and that applicable accounting stated at 608.3m and 106.1m respectively.
After providing for As at 15 September 2003, the Company has been notified of the standards have been followed.
The Directors are required to taxation of 31.8m and paying an interim dividend of 4.0m, the following interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Directors recommend a final dividend of 7.9m and the transfer unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will of the balance of 62.4m to reserves.
of % of issued continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for Name shares held share capital A detailed review of the Groups activities during the year and maintaining adequate accounting records, and are also of its prospects is contained within the Chairmans statement, responsible for taking such steps and instituting and maintaining Stephen Peter Morgan 15,210,155 9.6 Chief Executives review and Financial review.
such systems and controls as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud FMR Corp. and its direct and and other irregularities.
indirect subsidiaries and Fidelity International Limited The maintenance and integrity of the Redrow plc website is the FIL and its direct and indirect responsibility of the Directors.
The work carried out by the subsidiaries 7,810,906 4.9 Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any Pamela Elaine Morgan Bell 7,600,000 4.8 changes that may have occurred to the financial statements Legal & General Group plc 6,719,781 4.2 since they were initially presented on the website.
Standard Life Investments 6,245,632 3.9 Legislation in the U. K. governing the preparation and The Egerton European dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Dollar Fund 5,972,050 3.8 in other jurisdictions.
34 DIRECTORS REPORT Employee share ownership is encouraged through savings related Directors Charitable and political donations and other employee share schemes.
In the year ended 30 June The Directors are listed together with their biographical details The Group made no political donations but made charitable 2003, the Save As You Earn scheme was administered via a on pages 32 and 33. donations of 15,000 during the year.
In addition, the Group and Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST.
its employees are actively involved in fund-raising activities for D L Arnold was appointed to the Board on 15 September 2003. specific charities.
Creditor payment policy In accordance with Article 79 of the Articles of Association, The Group values its relationships with suppliers and Employees whereby Directors who have been appointed to the Board since sub-contractors.
It is the policy to agree credit terms prior to Redrow places considerable importance on the provision of the last Annual General Meeting must be re-appointed at the commencement of trading.
Subject to any items of genuine training and development.
next following Annual General Meeting, D L Arnold will retire dispute, it is policy to pay creditors within the terms agreed.
at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offers In 2003, work commenced to construct a new Group Training himself for re-election.
At June 2003 the Group had 39 days purchases outstanding Centre at Tamworth, Staffordshire.
The new facility started in respect of payments to suppliers and sub-contractors In accordance with Article 84 of the Articles of Association, delivering courses in September 2003.
It is intended that all new 2002: 38 days.
Redrow employees will participate in a formal induction course R B Jones, C E Lewis and B K Harvey will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, with technical courses tailored to each discipline being run European Monetary Union EMU continuously throughout the year.
The Group has minimal exposure to foreign exchange and The Executive Directors have formal service agreements.
continues to monitor the implications of EMU.
The Group supports the employment of disabled persons Termination of their employment may be effected by twelve wherever possible through recruitment and by the retention months notice given by either party.
Research and Development and retraining of those who become disabled during their The Group has a centralised Research and Development team employment.
The Non-Executive Directors have fixed term service charged with identifying and evaluating new construction agreements outlining their duties and responsibilities.
The Directors recognise the importance of good communications with employees.
Companies within the Group are encouraged to Directors interests Environment make their employees aware of the financial and economic Details of transactions with Directors which are material are Redrow recognises its responsibilities to the community as a factors affecting their respective companies and the Group.
This disclosed in Note 25 within the Notes to the financial whole and has adopted an environmental strategy which is a is assisted through the medium of regular management meetings statements.
core part of the Groups objectives.
Further details are provided and staff publications.
in the Corporate Social Responsibility review on pages 22 to 25.
The Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are given in the Remuneration report on pages 44 to 47.
DIRECTORS REPORT 35 Auditors Notice of Annual General Meeting Following the conversion of  to a Pages 64 to 67 sets out the Notice of Annual General Meeting Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003, and details the resolutions proposed together with explanatory  resigned as Auditors, and the Directors notes.
appointed  LLP to fill the casual vacancy by resignation.
By order of the Board A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as G A Cope Group Company Secretary Auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 5 November 2003.
15 September 2003 Purchase of the Companys own shares Resolution 11 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting seeks authority from Shareholders for the Company to purchase up to 15,857,406 ordinary shares, an aggregate nominal amount of 1,585,741, which is equivalent to approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 30 June 2003.
The authority will expire at the end of next years Annual General Meeting and the resolution specifies the maximum and minimum prices at which the shares may be bought.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial position of the Company will be taken into account before deciding upon this course of action.
