REED ELSEVIER PL REED ELSEVIER PLC C the equalisation agreement.
The equalisation adjustment Directors report arises on dividends paid by Reed Elsevier PLC to its The directors present their report, together with the shareholders and it reduces the statutory attributable financial statements of the company, for the year ended earnings of the company by 47.1% of the total amount of 31 December 2003. the tax credit, which in 2003 was 8m 2002: 7m.
As a consequence of the merger of the companys In addition to the reported figures, adjusted profit figures businesses with those of Reed Elsevier NV in 1993, are presented as additional performance measures.
These described on page 22, the shareholders of Reed Elsevier exclude the tax credit equalisation adjustment, the PLC and Reed Elsevier NV can be regarded as having the amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets and interests of a single economic group.
The Reed Elsevier exceptional items and provide a basis for performance combined financial statements represent the combined comparison that is not dependent on the choice of method interests of both sets of shareholders and encompass the of adoption of FRS10 in accounting for goodwill and businesses of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Elsevier Reed intangible assets.
Finance BV and their respective subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, together with the parent companies, Profit and loss account Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV the combined The companys share of the operating profits of Reed businesses or Reed Elsevier.
This directors report and Elsevier was 343m, up from 262m in 2002.
The science the financial statements of the company should be read in & medical business performed well with strong publishing conjunction with the combined financial statements and and new electronic products driving above market revenue other reports set out on pages 3 to 69, as well as the growth.
The legal business also continued to outperform Report of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer in its markets with consistent improvements in product the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements.
performance and expansion of its online services.
The Principal activities education business had a mixed performance in weak The company is a holding company and its principal markets, affected by the low level of textbook adoption investments are its direct 50% shareholding in Reed opportunities compounded by state budget pressures.
The Elsevier Group plc and its 39% shareholding in Elsevier business division continued to show impressive resilience Reed Finance BV, which are engaged in publishing and in depressed markets.
Underlying operating margins in all information activities and financing activities, respectively.
four divisions improved despite the high levels of The remaining shareholdings in these two companies are investment, due to cost efficiency.
Strong cash flows held by Reed Elsevier NV.
Reed Elsevier PLC also has an reinforced the quality of the financial result.
indirect equity interest in Reed Elsevier NV.
Reed Elsevier The companys share of the charge for amortisation of PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have retained their separate goodwill and intangible assets was 235m, down 44m legal identities and are publicly held companies.
Reed from 2002, reflecting translation effects and some past Elsevier PLCs securities are listed in London and New acquisitions becoming fully amortised.
The companys York and Reed Elsevier NVs securities are listed in share of the operating exceptional items was 38m 2002: Amsterdam and New York.
52m, principally comprising its share of integration and rationalisation costs relating to Harcourt and other Financial statement presentation acquisitions and other restructuring costs.
The consolidated financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC include the 52.9% economic interest that The profit for the year also includes a 14m share of the shareholders have under the equalisation arrangements in gain 2002: loss 6m on disposals of businesses and fixed the Reed Elsevier combined businesses, accounted for on asset investments.
The reported attributable profit for a gross equity basis.
The adjusted profit attributable to shareholders before the Under the terms of the merger agreement, dividends paid amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets and to Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders exceptional items was 394m 2002: 361m.
are equalised at the gross level inclusive of the UK tax credit received by certain Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders.
Adjusted earnings per share increased 9% to 31.2p 2002: Because of the tax credit, Reed Elsevier PLC normally 28.5p.
Including the effect of the tax credit equalisation as requires less cash to fund its net dividend than Reed well as the amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets Elsevier NV does to fund its gross dividend.
An adjustment and exceptional items and related tax effects, the basic is, therefore, required in the statutory profit and loss earnings per share was 13.4p 2002: 7.0p.
account of Reed Elsevier PLC to share this tax benefit between the two sets of shareholders in accordance with REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 73 REED ELSEVIER PL REED ELSEVIER PLC C Details of directors remuneration and their interests in the Directors report continued share capital of the company are provided in the Directors Balance sheet Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 38.
The balance sheet of Reed Elsevier PLC reflects the shareholders 52.9% economic interest in the net assets of Share capital Reed Elsevier, which at 31 December 2003 amounted to During the period 2,737,010 ordinary shares in the 1,288m 2002: 1,397m.
The 109m decrease in net company were issued in connection with the following assets principally reflects the companys share in the share option schemes: attributable profits of Reed Elsevier, less dividends paid and proposed and exchange translation effects.
932,994 under a UK SAYE share option scheme at prices between 336.20p and 543.20p per share.
Dividends 1,804,016 under executive share option schemes at prices The board is recommending a final dividend of 8.7p per between 321.75p and 537.50p per share.
ordinary share to be paid on 21 May 2004 to shareholders At 17 February 2004, the company had received notification on the Register on 30 April 2004 which, when added to the of the following substantial interests in the companys interim dividend already paid on 5 September 2003 issued ordinary share capital: amounting to 3.3p per ordinary share, makes the total dividend for the year 12.0p 2002: 11.2p.
The Capital Group Companies, Inc 77,918,935 shares 6.13% The total dividend on the ordinary shares for the financial Legal & General Group plc 44,174,343 shares 3.47% year will amount to 152m 2002: 143m, leaving a Oechsle International Advisors, LLC 42,907,149 shares retained profit of 17m 2002: loss 54m.
3.37% Directors At the 2003 Annual General Meeting a resolution was The following served as directors during the year: passed to extend the authority given to the company to M Tabaksblat Chairman purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares by market CHL Davis Chief Executive Officer purchase.
At 31 December 2003, this authority remained MH Armour Chief Financial Officer unutilised.
A resolution to further extend the authority is to GJA van fide Aast be put to the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
JF Brock MW Elliott appointed 8 April 2003 Charitable and political donations CJA van Lede appointed 8 April 2003 Reed Elsevier companies made donations during the year DJ Haank resigned 18 June 2003 for charitable purposes amounting to 1.3m of which RJ Nelissen resigned 8 April 2003 0.3m was in the United Kingdom.
In the United States, S Perrick resigned 8 April 2003 Reed Elsevier companies contributed 49,000 to political A Prozes parties.
There were no donations made in the European fide Reid appointed 8 April 2003 Union for political purposes.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE RWH Stomberg senior independent non-executive Statement of directors responsibilities director The directors are required by English company law to P Tierney appointed 8 April 2003 prepare financial statements for each financial period, Biographical details of the directors at the date of this which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Report are given on pages 10 and 11 of the Annual Review company and the group, and of the profit or loss for that and Summary Financial Statements.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors ensure that suitable accounting policies, Messrs Tabaksblat, van fide Aast and Stomberg and Lord consistently applied and supported by reasonable and Sharman will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual prudent judgements and estimates, have been used, and General Meeting.
Being eligible, they will each offer accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper The notice period applicable to the service contracts of Mr accounting records, which disclose with reasonable van fide Aast is set out in the Directors Remuneration accuracy at any time the financial position of the company Report on page 31, Messrs Tabaksblat and Stomberg and and enable them to ensure that the financial statements Lord Sharman do not have service contracts.
74 REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 REED ELSEVIER PLC Auditors Directors report continued On 1 August 2003, Deloitte & Touche, the companys The directors have general responsibility for taking auditors, transferred their business to Deloitte & Touche reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the group and LLP, a limited liability partnership incorporated under the to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The companys Corporate governance consent has been given to treating the appointment of The company has complied throughout the period under Deloitte & Touche as extending to Deloitte & Touche LLP review with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined with effect from 1 August 2003 under the provisions of Code the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Section 26 5 of the Companies Act 1989.
Best Practice, issued by the UK Financial Services Resolutions for the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche Authority the Combined Code.
LLP as auditors of the company and authorising the Details of how the provisions of the Combined Code have directors to fix their remuneration will be submitted to the been applied and the directors statement on internal forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
control are set out in the Structure and Corporate By order of Registered Governance report on pages 22 to 26. the board Office Details of the role and responsibilities, membership and Stephen J Cowden 1-3 Strand activities of the Reed Elsevier PLC Audit Committee are set Secretary London out in the Report of the Audit Committees on pages on 27 WC2N 5JR and 28.
18 February 2004 Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Payments to suppliers Reed Elsevier companies agree terms and conditions for business transactions with suppliers and payment is made on these terms.
The average time taken to pay suppliers was between 30 and 45 days.
REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 75
