REED ELSEVIER NV 29 April 2004 in the Hotel Okura in Amsterdam will include a The Supervisory Boards report discussion of Reed Elseviers corporate governance policies, Supervisory Board practices and disclosures.
M Tabaksblat, Chairman At the Reed Elsevier NV Annual General Meeting, Lord GJ fide Boer-Kruyt Sharman, Mr Stomberg and Mr Tabaksblat will retire by JF Brock rotation as members of the Supervisory Board.
Having MW Elliott reviewed their performance, qualifications and availability, CJA van Lede and the overall Supervisory Board profile, the Nominations fide Reid Committee has recommended their re-appointment.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE Resolutions proposing the re-appointment of Lord Sharman, RWH Stomberg Mr Stomberg and Mr Tabaksblat will be submitted to the Together with the Executive Board, we herewith submit Reed 2004 Annual General Meeting.
Elsevier NVs annual report and financial statements for the The Supervisory Board Registered office financial year ended 31 December 2003 to the shareholders 18 February 2004 Sara Burgerhartstraat 25 meeting for adoption.
The financial statements have been 1055 KV Amsterdam drawn up in accordance with the accounting principles explained on pages 92 and 93 of this document.
They have The Executive Boards report been examined by Deloitte Accountants, Amsterdam.
Their Executive Board report and opinion is set out on page 104.
The combined CHL Davis, Chairman financial statements on pages 40 to 69 are part of the notes MH Armour, Chief Financial Officer to and form an integral part of these statutory financial statements.
GJA van fide Aast A Prozes We refer to the Report of the Chairman and the Chief P Tierney Executive Officer and to the other reports contained within the Reed Elsevier Annual Review and Summary Financial We refer to the Report of the Chairman and the Chief Statements 2003 and the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Executive Officer and to the other reports contained within Financial Statements 2003.
These reports explain the the Reed Elsevier Annual Review and Summary Financial business results of 2003, the financial state of the company Statements 2003 and the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and at the end of 2003, and the key strategic issues.
These reports explain the business results of 2003, the financial state of the company The equalisation agreement between Reed Elsevier NV at the end of 2003, and the key strategic issues.
and Reed Elsevier PLC has the effect that shareholders can be regarded as having the interests of a single economic As explained in the financial statements on pages 92 and group and provides that Reed Elsevier NV shall declare 93, Reed Elsevier NV prepares its financial statements in dividends such that the dividend on one Reed Elsevier NV accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in ordinary share, which shall be payable in euros, will equal the UK and therefore presents both group financial 1.538 times the cash dividend, including the related UK tax statements and parent company financial statements.
In the credit, paid on one Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share.
In that group financial statements, the profit attributable to the context, the combined meeting of the Supervisory and shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV was 242m 2002 144m Executive Boards the Combined Board determines the and net assets as at 31 December 2003, principally amounts of the companys profit to be retained.
The ordinary representing the investments in Reed Elsevier Group plc and shares and the R-shares are entitled to receive distribution Elsevier Reed Finance BV under the gross equity method, in proportion to their nominal value.
In the parent company may resolve to pay less per R-share, but not less than 1% of financial statements, the profit attributable to the the nominal value.
Details of dividends are contained in the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV was 203m 2002 152m Operating and Financial Review on page 21. and net assets as at 31 December 2003, principally representing the investments in Reed Elsevier Group plc and We have assessed Reed Elsevier NVs compliance with the Elsevier Reed Finance BV under the historical cost method, Dutch Corporate Governance Code the Code issued on were 1,985m 2002 2,000m.
9 December 2003 and believe that Reed Elseviers policies and practices, as set out in the Reed Elsevier Annual Review At the Reed Elsevier NV Annual General Meeting, Mr van and Summary Financial Statements 2003 and the Reed fide Aast will retire by rotation as a member of the Executive Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2003, Board.
The Nominations Committee has recommended his substantially comply with the recommendations of the Code.
re-appointment and a resolution will be submitted to the While some aspects of the Code are still being considered, 2004 Annual General Meeting.
we do not expect that there will be any significant issues The Executive Board Registered office regarding compliance during 2004.
The agenda for the 18 February 2004 Sara Burgerhartstraat 25 Annual General Meeting of the shareholders to be held on 1055 KV Amsterdam REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 91
