qxd 5 4 04 5:17 pm Page 9 Financial review requirements of the Group.
The balance of the rights issue funds FUNDING AND DEPOSITS Indebtedness excluding finance leases of 25.2 million supports the working at 31 December 2003 of 9.2 million capital requirements of the Group.
Outstanding borrowings comprise 2002: 11.0 million includes a 5.0 office equipment financed through million loan from Regus UK 2002: Current indications show the Group finance leases as well as specific loans 5.0 million.
Finance lease obligations is expected to be cash generative in from certain property owners advanced outstanding at 31 December 2003 the near future.
On this basis, we on commercial terms.
Wherever amounted to 17.7 million 2002: believe the Group has sufficient cash possible, these borrowings are 25.2 million, of which 6.7 million resources to fund its operations for the matched to the local currency of the is due within one year.
Surplus funds are deposited in investment grade instruments that Operating cash outflow before carry low credit risk and which are exceptional items was 8.8 million in 2003 TREASURY MANAGEMENT readily realisable.
compared to a cash inflow of 5.8 million in 2002.
The reduction in 2003 is due to The Groups Treasury policy seeks to the exclusion of the UK business, which ensure that adequate financial resources COUNTERPARTY RISK generated cash in 2002. are available for day-to-day operations while managing its currency, interest The Group actively manages its Net cash outflow before management rate and counter-party credit risks.
relationships with a panel of high-quality of liquid resources and financing for the financial institutions.
Cash assets, year was 17.1 million 2002: 16.9 Group Treasury strategy and policy borrowings and other financial million following receipt of 6.7 million are developed centrally, with subsidiary instruments are distributed according deferred consideration, tax payments companies being required to operate to predetermined limits approved of 2.0 million, net interest payments within a framework of controls approved by the Board to control exposure of 4.3 million, net capital expenditure by the Board.
Our policy on each to any particular institution.
of 1.4 million and investments in joint of the major areas of treasury activity ventures of 0.4 million.
is set out below: FUTURE UK ACCOUNTING At 31 December 2003, net DEVELOPMENTS funds increased by 35.7 million CURRENCY TRANSACTION to 58.1 million.
EXPOSURES The European Commission issued a Regulation in 2002 requiring all listed Excluding the receipt in the year of the It is the Groups policy to hedge companies to adopt International deferred consideration from the sale of the risk arising from transactions Accounting Standards in their the UK business 6.7 million and funds which give rise to transactional currency consolidated financial statements raised from the rights issue 49.9 million exposures.
The Group is considering net of expenses the Group recorded from sales or purchases in currencies the implications of such a requirement a cash outflow in 2003 of 21.3 million.
However, the and would expect first to prepare majority of the Groups businesses financial statements in accordance with Receipt of the majority of the Rights sell to clients and pay suppliers in their the International Accounting Standards Issue funds on 30 December, 2003 own functional currencies and as a result and International Financial Reporting improved net current assets to 14.1 have limited transaction exposure.
Standards for the year ended 31 million, and strengthened the balance December 2005. sheet to a net asset position.
The Rights Issue funds were in part used to settle Chapter 11 creditor claims of 27.8 million $49.7 million in January 2004.
qxd 5 4 04 5:17 pm Page 10 Directors John Matthews Roger Orf Auditor KPMG Audit Plc Chairman, 59 Director, 51 8 Salisbury Square Chairman since July 2002 Senior independent non-executive London EC4Y 8BB He is also Chairman of Crest Nicholson plc Head of European Operations for Legal advisers and an independent director of SDL plc, Lone Star, a property investment to the Company as to English law Rotork plc, Diploma plc and Center Parcs company.
Previously, Roger made Slaughter and May UK Group plc.
A chartered accountant, he investments on his own account and One Bunhill Row was previously Managing Director of County managed investments on behalf of Apollo London EC1Y 8YY Natwest and Deputy Chief Executive of Real Estate Advisors.
Prior to 1995, Beazer plc, the international aggregates, Roger was in charge of Goldman Sachs Legal advisers to the Company as to US law construction and housing group.
He is European real estate department.
Davis Polk & Wardwell Chairman of the Nomination Committee He is Chairman of the Audit Committee 99 Gresham Street and a member of the Audit and and a member of the Remuneration London EC2V 7NG Remuneration Committees.
Bankers NatWest Bank plc Mark Dixon Martin Robinson 1 Princes Street London EC2R 8PB Chief Executive, 44 Director, 41 Founder of Regus Group Independent non-executive Financial advisers NM Rothschild & Sons Limited Mark is one of Europes best-known Martin was appointed as a nonNew Court entrepreneurs and since founding executive director in August 2002.
St Swithins Lane Regus in Brussels in 1989, he has achieved He is currently the Chairman of Center London EC4P 4DU a formidable reputation for leadership and Parcs UK Group plc and CEO of Stockbrokers innovation.
Prior to Regus, he established Center Parcs Europe.
He has previously KBC Peel Hunt Ltd businesses in the retail and wholesale food held senior executive positions with 111 Old Broad Street industry.
Recipient of two major international Scottish and Newcastle, McKinsey & Co Inc London EC2N 1PH awards for enterprise, Marks vision of the and Sara Lee Corporation.
He is future of work has revolutionised the way Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Registrars business approaches its property needs.
and a member of the Audit and Capita IRG PLC Nomination Committees.
Bourne House 34 Beckenham Road Rudolf Lobo Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Group Finance Director, 48 Registered office and headquarters Rudolf joined Regus twelve years 3000 Hillswood Drive ago and re-assumed the role of Group Finance Chertsey Director on 2 October 2003.
In addition, he is Surrey KT16 0RS responsible for commercial operations, human Registered number resources and for directing Regus IT and 4868977 e-business strategy.
Rudolf is also a Director and Trustee of the charity Great Causes Website Limited.
Previously, he was the Group www.
com Company Secretary of Medicom International Ltd, a publisher of medical journals.
