Annual report 2003 Directors John Deer Ben Taylor Assistant Chief Executive, age 54, has Deputy Chairman, age 65, trained as Sir David McMurtry, CBE, been involved in the field of metrology a mechanical engineer and worked for all his working life, after graduating in RDI, CEng, FIMechE, FREng Rolls-Royce plc, Bristol, from 1960 to mechanical engineering and design 1974.
He was Managing Director of Chairman and Chief Executive, age 63, from Pennsylvania State University.
Renishaw from 1974 to 1989, primarily was employed by Rolls-Royce plc, Before joining Renishaw Inc as involved in the commercial direction of Bristol, for 17 years, latterly holding the President in 1985, he was the the Group, with particular emphasis on positions of Deputy Chief Designer and Director of Engineering at Sheffield marketing and the establishment of the Assistant Chief of Engine Design of all Measurement, USA.
Ben was Groups wholly-owned subsidiaries in Rolls-Royce engines manufactured at appointed to the Board of Renishaw USA, Ireland, Japan, Germany, France the Filton, Bristol, works.
After inventing plc in 1987 and is responsible for group and Italy.
John and Sir David McMurtry the original probe in the early 1970s, marketing, strategy and planning, were members of the four-man team of David founded Renishaw in 1973 with international operations and human Renishaw engineers honoured with the John Deer and joined Renishaw in resources.
He serves on various MacRobert Award in 1987.
His CBE was awarded for metrology committees and other responsible for group manufacturing services to Science and Technology professional associations.
and group quality and is chairman of and he was appointed a Royal Designer the overseas marketing subsidiaries.
He is a visiting Professor of Huddersfield University and has been awarded an honorary Doctorate of Engineering at the University of Birmingham and honorary degrees of Doctor of Engineering at Heriot-Watt University and Bristol University.
David is a Chartered Engineer, a Fellow of the Geoff McFarland Institute of Mechanical Engineers, a Group Engineering Director, age 35, Fellow of the American Society of Allen Roberts, FCA graduated with a BEng in computer Manufacturing Engineers and a Fellow aided mechanical engineering at Group Finance Director, age 54, is of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Heriot-Watt University, where he a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered In addition to his role as Chairman subsequently worked for several Accountants in England and Wales.
and Chief Executive, David also has years as a research associate.
After Before joining Renishaw in 1979, responsibility for group technology.
working briefly in the high-volume he was employed for 11 years by Peat, manufacturing electronic sector, Marwick, Mitchell & Co.
He was Geoff joined Renishaws research and appointed a director in 1980.
Allen development facility in Edinburgh in heads group finance, business 1994, before moving to Renishaws systems and Wotton Travel and headquarters to become Director and is the company secretary.
General Manager of the CMM products division.
Geoff was appointed to the Board in July 2002.
He heads the group engineering function and is 4 also responsible for group patents.
Joe McGeehan, FIEE, David Snowden, FCA Terry Garthwaite, FCA non-executive director, age 66, was a FREng non-executive director, age 56, is partner at KPMG for 25 years, latterly a chartered accountant from Price the senior independent non-executive acting as Senior Partner for KPMG in Waterhouse, London.
Following 12 director, age 57, is Managing Director South Wales.
David was an audit years working at Foseco Minsep plc, of Toshiba Research Ltd: partner covering a wide range of a specialty chemical company, Terry Telecommunications Research businesses and was also regional joined the specialist multinational Laboratory, Bristol.
After obtaining the partner in charge of insolvency work for engineering group, Senior plc as degrees of BEng and PhD in electrical ten years.
Since his retirement from Group Finance Director.
Whilst at and electronic engineering from the KPMG in 1993, David has been a Senior he was also responsible for University of Liverpool, he spent several director and corporate adviser to a investor relations and chaired the years involved in industrial research number of private companies.
David groups tax and treasury committee before entering academia.
Since 1985, was appointed a director of the and the UK pension funds.
Since he has held a number of senior Company on 1st July 2003 and is leaving Senior, he has been providing positions at the University of Bristol.
the chairman of the remuneration consultancy services whilst working In 2003 he was awarded the degree and nomination committee.
with the Princes Trust and the Support of DEng by the University of Liverpool Group of the Institute of Chartered for his major contribution to mobile Accountants in England and Wales.
communications research, much Terry was appointed a director of the of which has formed the basis of Company on 1st July 2003 and is the international standards.
He is a Fellow chairman of the audit committee.
of the Institution of Electrical Engineers and a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Joe was appointed as a director in January 2001.
Audit committee: Terry Garthwaite Chair Joe McGeehan David Snowden Remuneration and nomination committee: David Snowden Chair Terry Garthwaite Joe McGeehan David McMurtry John Deer 5
