Directors report The directors have pleasure in presenting their 30th Annual All the above holdings were beneficially held with the report, together with the audited financial statements for the exception of 2,320,311 shares 2002 2,320,311 shares year ended 30th June 2003 as set out on pages 20 to 35. which were non-beneficially held by D J Deer but in respect of which he has voting rights.
There has been no change in the above holdings in the Trading results period 1st July 2003 to 23rd July 2003.
The group results for the year were:- B R Taylor, who does not have a service contract, and 2003 2002 J P McGeehan, whose contract for services is terminable 000 000 upon one months notice, retire by rotation and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
In addition, T D Snowden Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 17,799 16,062 and T B Garthwaite, who each have a contract for services Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 3,454 880 terminable upon one months notice, offer themselves for election, having been appointed to the Board on 1st July Profit for the financial year 14,345 15,182 2003.
T D Snowden held 5,000 ordinary shares in the Dividends 12,156 11,573 Company at the date of his appointment.
Biographical details of the directors are shown on pages 4 and 5.
Retained profit for the year 2,189 3,609 Environmental control Principal activities and review of the business The Renishaw Group operates in an environmentally The principal activities of the Group during the year were responsible manner, adopting the most appropriate the design, manufacture and sale of advanced precision  technologies and practices to metrology and inspection equipment, computer aided ensure the minimisation of its environmental impact.
design and manufacturing systems and Raman Work on the Woodchester site to bring it in line with the latest spectroscopy systems.
environmental standards has continued with the systematic A review of the business and likely future developments are elimination of unsuitable materials.
An energy-efficient air given in the Chairmans statement and the Operating and conditioning system has been implemented using Munters financial review.
An analysis of turnover by geographical heat recovery wheels and older air conditioning installations market is given in note 2 to the financial statements.
on other sites have also been upgraded to new more efficient Further information is also available on the Groups website: systems.
In addition, flood management work is starting to www.
com and in the Group profile.
ensure both the security of the site and the preservation of local waterways.
Across all sites, a review of energy use has been undertaken Dividends with a view to minimising consumption.
This involves the The directors propose a final dividend of 11.36p per share implementation of a system to monitor remotely individual 2002 10.82p which, together with the interim dividend of loads and to provide on-line analysis of energy usage.
Future 5.34p 2002 5.08p, makes a total of 16.70p for the year, building developments are being designed to meet local compared to 15.90p for the previous year.
The final dividend planning authority requirements regarding the storage and will be paid on 20th October 2003 to shareholders on the recycling of both rainwater and greywater where appropriate.
Recycling of materials has been for many years an integral part of Renishaws manufacturing ethos.
New schemes are Directors and their interests being devised to extend recycling to all areas where benefit The directors who served during the year and their interests to the environment can be achieved.
Some site recycling in the share capital of the Company, at the beginning and at facilities have been opened up for use by employees in order the end of the year, were:- to promote an environmentally responsible culture.
Efforts in the integration of environmental requirements in the design of products have continued through the minimisation Ordinary shares of 20p each of packaging and its progressive transfer to recyclable cardboard packaging wherever possible.
The programme 2003 2002 of introduction of lead-free techniques to address the requirements of the European Waste Electrical and Electronic D R McMurtry 26,377,291 26,377,291 Equipment Directive has been continuing and an investment D J Deer 12,393,040 12,378,940 plan is under preparation to gear up the Company to embrace B R Taylor 10,147 5,147 this new technology.
AC G Roberts 5,165 5,165 G McFarland appointed 24th July 2002 J P McGeehan 900 Auditors Aresolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
15 Annual report 2003 The statement below, together with the report on directors Special business remuneration on page 19, explains how the Company has The notice of annual general meeting on page 37 sets out applied the principles set out in the Combined Code and the a resolution which the directors have resolved should be subsequent Turnbull guidance.
proposed as special business during the course of the meeting.
Purchase of own shares The directors consider that the The Board Company should have the flexibility to be able to make The Board is responsible for the proper management of the market purchases of its own ordinary shares, up to a total Company and retains control over the Company and its of 10% of the issued share capital.
Shareholders are being subsidiary undertakings.
It meets as often as is necessary for asked to pass the necessary special resolution no.
9 at the the proper conduct of business, normally five times a year.
annual general meeting to give the required authority until the During the year ended 30th June 2003, the Board met five earlier of the conclusion of the 2004 annual general meeting times and all directors in office at the relevant time attended and 31st December 2004.
There is at present no intention to such meetings.
It now has eight members, five executive purchase shares and, if granted, the authority would only be directors and three non-executive directors.
Biographical exercised if an improvement in earnings per share were details are set out on pages 4 and 5.
The Board receives expected to result.
appropriate documentation, management accounts, forecasts and commentaries thereon, in advance of each formal Employees meeting to enable its members to review the financial performance of the Group, current trading and key business The maintenance of a highly skilled workforce is essential initiatives.
The Board focuses on formulation of strategy, to the future of the business and the directors place great control and review of business performance.
There is also emphasis on the continuation of the Companys approved a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for training policy.
Health and safety matters are given special decision, including the approval of annual and interim results, attention by the directors and well established systems of acquisitions, major capital expenditure, material agreements, safety management are in place throughout the Group to forecasts and senior executive appointments and removals safeguard employees, customers and visitors.
There is an agreed Employment policies are designed to provide equal procedure for directors in the furtherance of their duties to opportunities irrespective of colour, ethnic origin, nationality, take independent professional advice if necessary, at the religion, sex, marital or disabled status.
The Company always Companys expense.
All directors have access to the advice considers carefully an application for employment by any and services of the company secretary, who is responsible to registered disabled person.
Also, opportunities are given the Board for ensuring Board procedures are followed and to employees who become disabled, to continue in their applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
employment or to be trained for other positions.
Regular The Board appointed two additional independent noncontact is maintained with all employees through monthly executive directors who took office on 1st July 2003.
A communications meetings and departmental channels.
number of applicants were considered and a shortlist The quarterly in-house journal ensures staff are kept well interviewed.
The Board identified a need for candidates informed on the progress of the Group.
In addition, the with good knowledge of financial matters and business Assistant Chief Executive presents the interim and final affairs.
Both new appointees are experienced chartered results, following their publication, to all employees, in accountants with an understanding of the requirements of February and August respectively.
listed companies and of the engineering and electronics sector.
It is expected that both will make significant Creditor payment policy contributions to Board decision-making in the future.
The Company has a variety of payment terms: An induction programme has been commenced for both new Contracts have been negotiated with a number of suppliers directors which includes an opportunity to meet major shareholders.
and payments are made in accordance with the terms of The senior independent non-executive director for the year these contracts.
from 1st July 2003 is Joe McGeehan.
It is intended that this Payment terms are disclosed on the Companys standard position is rotated between the non-executive directors on an purchase order forms, or, where appropriate, specified in annual basis.
individual contracts agreed with suppliers.
Two payment runs are made each month.
The Companys Board committees policy is to ensure that all invoices are settled within 60 days The Board has two formally constituted committees: the audit of the receipt and agreement of a valid and complete invoice.
committee and the remuneration and nomination committee.
Wherever possible, payments are made using the Bankers Both have terms of reference that have been approved by the Automated Clearing Service.
The Board took the opportunity following the Typically, the Company settles all due invoices in the appointment of the new non-executive directors to review the calendar month following their receipt.
The number of days membership of both committees.
purchasing outstanding at the end of June 2003 was approximately 30 days 2002 30 days.
The current audit committee members are set out on page 5 and now comprise solely independent non-executive directors.
It met three times during the financial year with Corporate governance its previous membership and twice since then with its new The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of composition.
The Group Finance Director, Group Internal corporate governance.
Audit Manager and external auditors have been in attendance 16 at all such meetings.
The committee intends to meet at least Internal control three times a year, including at least one meeting, or part, The Combined Code introduced a requirement that the with the external auditors without the executive directors directors review the effectiveness of the Groups system of being present.
internal controls, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
The Company has established The remuneration and nomination committee is the procedures to ensure compliance with the Combined Code committee with responsibility for determining remuneration and the related Turnbull guidance.
policy, determining executive director remuneration packages, reviewing the structure and composition of the Board and The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the nominating candidates for appointment to the Board.
The Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its current members of the remuneration and nomination effectiveness.
Also, it acknowledges that it has ultimate committee are set out on page 5.
It met once during the responsibility for ensuring that the Group has in place a financial year with its previous membership and intends system of controls, financial and otherwise, that is appropriate to meet at least two times a year in future.
to the business environment in which it operates.
This is intended to ensure that the directors maintain full and There is an executive committee known as the Executive effective control over all significant strategic, financial, Board that is responsible for the executive management of organisational and compliance issues.
However, any system the Groups business.
It is chaired by the Chairman and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure includes the executive directors.
to achieve business objectives and can provide only A framework of authorities is in place which maps out the reasonable and not absolute assurance against material structure of delegation below Board level and includes the misstatement or loss.
matters reserved to the Executive Board and below.
The key procedures that the directors have established, and At 30th June 2003, the Group had seven specialist products which are designed to provide effective internal control, are divisions, with three supporting service divisions.
Each of set out below: these divisions has its own executive board, which meets Directors and senior managers have identified the significant quarterly and which comprises the five executive directors risks faced by the Company and its subsidiaries.
There is an and the director and general manager of each division.
Other on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing senior divisional managers attend the board meetings as required.
risks, together with determining key controls and reporting procedures to minimise their impact.
It is reviewed regularly Directors remuneration by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
Details of directors remuneration are set out in the Directors remuneration report on page 19 and in note 4 to the Formal interviews have been conducted with directors and financial statements.
general managers from all areas of the business.
The key risks have been identified with due consideration and analysis of political, economic, social and technological factors that Relations with shareholders could impact on each business areas objectives.
For each The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, identified risk, a value judgement has been made on the when its half-year and full-year results are announced, and impact, both financial and reputational, that its crystallisation an interim report and an annual report are issued to the would have on the business, together with the likelihood of shareholders.
At the same time, the Assistant Chief Executive the risk occurring.
Scores have been calculated for each risk and Group Finance Director give presentations on the results using a risk score matrix and the risks prioritised based on to institutional investors, analysts and the media.
This process has been facilitated by Internal The annual general meeting takes place at the Companys Audit, to ensure consistency.
Following this process, Internal head office and formal notification is sent to shareholders at Audit has ensured that proper control policies, procedures least 20 working days in advance.
At the meeting, a business and activities are in place to maintain the key business risks presentation is made to shareholders and all directors are within the risk tolerance levels agreed by the Board.
This available, formally during the meeting, and informally process is ongoing.
In addition, monthly reports are prepared by the director The Board is ready, where practicable, to enter into a and general manager of each UK division setting out the dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the mutual strengths, opportunities, failures and threats facing the understanding of objectives.
These reports are formally reviewed in the analysts are actively encouraged to visit the Company.
Monthly sales reports are also prepared for the Board by the managing director of each The Company will advise shareholders attending the annual overseas subsidiary company.
These reports address general meeting of the number of proxy votes lodged for pertinent business risks.
each resolution, in the categories For and Against, together with the numbers at the Chairmans discretion, and of There is an appropriate organisation structure with clearly abstentions.
These will be advised after each resolution defined areas of responsibility and delegation of authority has been dealt with on a show of hands.
from the Board to the operating divisions and companies.
Appropriate reporting lines are established, including a The Companys internet site www.
com gives comprehensive set of procedures for monthly reporting to the access to information about the Group, its products and its Board of the results of each subsidiary company and product performance.
The interim results and the preliminary division.
There is a commitment to competence and integrity announcement of the full years results are published on and this is achieved through appropriate recruitment the website no later than ten minutes after they have been procedures and employment policy.
released at the Financial Services Authority.
17 Annual report 2003 Control procedures are established that are considered The consideration of candidates to the Board was a matter appropriate to the size and nature of the organisation.
In reserved for the Board as a whole.
All directors were particular, controls are designed to prevent the unauthorised involved in the selection process for the two additional use or disposition of the Groups assets, to ensure proper non-executive directors appointed on 1st July 2003.
Since accounting records are maintained and that financial their appointment, a newly constituted remuneration and information used within the business or for publication nomination committee is responsible for reviewing Board is reliable.
This committee is not constituted in accordance with the Combined Code since it includes the Chairman and Up-to-date internal financial reports, including monthly Chief Executive and the Deputy Chairman, both being management accounts and rolling twelve-month forecasts are executive directors.
However, the committee is composed of prepared.
Sales and orders are reported daily, cash balances a majority of non-executive directors and is chaired by a nonare reported weekly and there is periodic reporting to the executive director.
Board on the Groups tax and treasury position.
The Board did not comprise one third non-executive directors Key procedures and controls are defined in the Group during the financial year.
However, this requirement of the Internal Control Manual.
Authorisation limits have been Combined Code has now been fulfilled with the two new reviewed, documented and formally approved at Board level.
All items of capital expenditure and all employee recruitment require authorisation by the Board of the relevant group In accordance with the articles of association of the Company, company or division.
Treasury policies are defined by the the Chairman and Deputy Chairman are not subject to Board.
The overseas trading subsidiaries only retain sufficient re-election by the shareholders.
funds to meet their working capital requirements.
Significant foreign currency transactions are decided by the Board, Substantial shareholdings which determines when and how foreign currency is Apart from the shareholdings of Sir David McMurtry and converted into Sterling.
The Group does not use any openJohn Deer 36.2% and 17% respectively, the shareholdings ended financial derivative instruments.
The audit committee notified to the directors, which represent 3% or more of the reviews the accounting policies and procedures of the Group issued share capital of the Company, as at 23rd July 2003, are: and its compliance with statutory requirements.
It reviews the scope and reports of the external audit and its cost Company Number of shares Percentage effectiveness, internal audit reports and the internal control CRMC 3,820,308 5.25% self-assessment declarations made by the senior HBOS plc 3,379,992 4.64% management of all group companies.
The internal control Aegon UK plc 3,045,947 4.18% system is monitored and supported by Internal Audit.
This monitoring process is continual.
It is a principal function of the Capital Research and Management Company Groups managers to ensure established control procedures are adhered to and that appropriate corrective measures are Research and development taken, should control weaknesses be identified.
The Group has a continuing commitment to a high level of It is recognised that internal controls must evolve over time, research and development.
The expenditure involved is given the growth in the Groups business activities and the audit directed towards the research and development of new committee reviews the controls formally on an annual basis.
products relating to metrology, computer aided design and manufacturing systems and Raman spectroscopy systems.
Going concern On the basis of current financial projections and available Donations and community involvement funds and facilities, the directors have a reasonable During the year the Group made charitable donations of expectation that the Group has adequate resources to 57,345 2002 86,797.
The Group organises its charitable continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
donations by two methods: firstly, by allocating a fund of For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern money to its Charities Committee: and secondly, through basis in preparing the financial statements.
direct grants as decided by the Board.
The Charities Committee meets at least four times a year to consider all applications Compliance statement for donations from local groups in the UK.
Its donations policy The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of is to provide funds to local causes or local branches of internal control during the year and for the period to the date national groups, with specific focus on youth projects.
of approval of the financial statements.
In addition to donations to charitable causes, the Company In its opinion, the Company has complied from 1st July 2002 is actively involved with the community, for example, hosting with the Combined Code, except for the following matters: events at its premises for local schools and supporting the community sports foundation efforts in providing sporting The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are currently facilities in Wotton-under-Edge.
No political donations were combined, as the directors consider this to be in the best made 2002 nil.
interests of the Company and shareholders.
The Board considers that there is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company, which ensures an appropriate By order of the Board balance of power and authority, such that no one individual AC G Roberts FCA has unfettered powers of decision.
Secretary There was no nominations committee to consider the 23rd July 2003 appointment of new directors.
