Report of the Directors DIRECTORS Information on the directors is given on page 20.
Mr P Mason was elected to the board at the annual general meeting held on 29th May 2003.
The directors retiring by rotation will be Mr E F Brown, Mr R R Spinney and Mr J C F Wilde, who are eligible and offer themselves for re-election at the 2004 annual general meeting.
Messrs Brown and Wilde both have service contracts which are referred to in the Remuneration Report.
BOARD Following the introduction of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance in July 2003, the board has COMMITTEES reviewed in detail its procedures and practices and, in particular, has modified the terms of reference of the audit and remuneration committees.
The principal board committees are as follows: Audit committee This committee reviews the interim and annual reports and trading statements and internal control systems and risk management systems.
It also considers the appointment of external auditors and monitors their effectiveness.
Its terms of reference have been modified to take account of the Smith Guidance which is appended to the revised Combined Code.
The number of meetings of the audit committee has been increased and the agendas for those meetings widened in scope to ensure that the audit committee is fully able to meet its increased responsibilities.
Its members are Mr I Harley chairman, Mr P J Long, Mr P Mason and Mr R R Spinney, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
Nomination committee This committee is responsible for recommending board appointments.
Its terms of reference have been modified to take account of the Higgs Guidance which is appended to the revised Combined Code.
Its members are Sir Clive Thompson chairman, Mr I Harley, Mr B D McGowan and Mr J C F Wilde.
Non-executive directors fees committee This committee is responsible for reviewing and determining the fees of non-executive directors other than the chairman.
Its members are Sir Clive Thompson chairman, Mr R C Payne and Mr J C F Wilde.
Remuneration committee This committee makes recommendations to the board on the companys framework of executives remuneration and its cost and determines on behalf of the board the pay and benefits of the chairman, executive directors, the sector managing directors and the company secretary.
Its terms of reference have been modified to take account of the Higgs Guidance.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 29 to 42.
The members of the remuneration committee are Mr B D McGowan chairman, Mr R R Spinney, Mr P J Long and Mr P Mason, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
The terms of reference of the committees may be found on the companys website, www.
com, or, if a hard copy is required, by application to the company secretarys department at the companys head office.
DIRECTORS The interests of the directors and their families in the share capital of the company, other than in relation to share INTERESTS options, on 1st January 2003 or their date of appointment if later, and 31st December 2003, are set out on page 42.
The only directors who have been granted share options in the year by the company are the executive directors, details of whose option holdings are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 39 and 40.
No director had any beneficial interest in the shares of any of the companys, subsidiaries on those dates.
RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC 21 Report of the Directors The interests of the directors and their families in the company and its subsidiary companies during the period from the end of the financial year to 24th March 2004 have changed only to the extent of awards of shares to executive directors under the Deferred Share Award Plan, details of which are set out on pages 31 to 34.
The company has purchased cover for the directors against liabilities arising in relation to the company, as permitted by DIRECTORS INSURANCE the Companies Act 1985.
INTERESTS OF During 2003, no director had any material interest in any significant contract to which the company or any subsidiary DIRECTORS IN was a party.
CONTRACTS INTERESTS IN On 24th March 2004, the following were registered as being interested in the companys issued share capital: SHARE CAPITAL Barclays Bank plc 4.90% Franklin Resources Inc 7.05% Legal and General Group Plc 3.64% EMPLOYEES The company attaches considerable importance to keeping its employees informed of matters affecting their jobs and the progress of the business.
As well as the companys intranet there is a UK magazine and a number of other in-house publications in the UK and other countries covering local and divisional matters.
Employees have frequent opportunities to meet and have discussions with their managers.
Senior executives from the United Kingdom make regular visits overseas for meetings with managers and staff.
A European Forum has been established under the European Works Council Directive as a means of informing, communicating and consulting with employees across Europe and currently covers employees in all current member countries of the European Union, Norway and Switzerland.
Employees in the Czech Republic will be given the opportunity to elect a representative to the European Forum in 2004.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with Rentokil Initial continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of Rentokil Initial that the training, career developments and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical with that of other employees.
POST BALANCE Shareholders attention is drawn to the following events which have occured since the 31st December 2003 up to SHEET EVENTS 24th March 2004: 1.
The company has purchased 7.4 million of its own shares.
The company has made four acquisitions at a cost of 6.5 million.
POLICY IN Rentokil Initial has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers in various countries.
These are either negotiated along RELATION TO with other contract terms or conform to standard terms applied either by the relevant group company or by the PAYMENT OF supplier.
It is the companys policy to pay suppliers in accordance with either negotiated or standard terms, provided SUPPLIERS that the relevant invoice is properly presented and is not the subject of dispute.
22 RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC At 31st December 2003 the trade creditors of the group represented 56 days of annual purchases and the UK businesses trade creditors represented 54 days of purchases: UK trade debtors represented 44 days of turnover.
During the year the parent company did not have any trade creditors.
CORPORATE The company takes account of social, environmental and ethical considerations when managing the business and when SOCIAL contemplating new activities.
In 2002 the board adopted a range of corporate social responsibility CSR policies.
In RESPONSIBILITY addition to the existing policies and procedures in respect of the environment and health and safety, they comprise policies on ethics, and policies in relation to the fundamental rights of employees, equal opportunities and diversity, employee remuneration, training and employee development, job security and wealth creation, relationships with customers and suppliers and community involvement.
Mr E F Brown is the director responsible for corporate social responsibility matters.
Measuring compliance with CSR policies relating to its people has been a priority in 2003 and businesses have reported on their compliance with the Rentokil Initial good practice guides on employment.
A summary of the outcome of the review is contained in the companys CSR report for 2003, which is available on the companys website see below.
The board has been pleased with the outcome of the review which proved to be a useful benchmark of the employment practices in the operating businesses internationally and identified a number of opportunities for the spread of best practice in a number of areas such as communications and skills training.
No practices were identified that could be considered to be a breach of the boards CSR policies.
The corporate social responsibility section of the companys website www.
com provides a current overview of our plans and progress in the areas of health and safety, environment and people.
The section also contains copies of all the corporate social responsibility policies adopted by the board and some of the supporting procedures and standards, and offers answers to many commonly asked questions.
The companys Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003, available from the website, profiles the company and identifies the key challenges in this area, discusses our approach and provides more detailed progress updates, including case studies.
Any shareholder without access to the website who would like to have further information on CSR matters should contact the company at the address shown on the inside back cover of this annual report.
Good practice guides on relations with customers and suppliers are being developed and the performance of the companys operations against them will be measured during the course of 2004.
The company views the processes in place to manage risk and to motivate and incentivise managers described in this report as equally relevant to an analysis of social, environmental and ethical matters.
The on-going evaluation of systems and procedures is intended to ensure that the management system including the internal control framework is effective in ensuring that issues of a social, environmental or ethical nature are identified and acted upon.
The company has extended its internal control verification systems to ensure that businesses report periodically on their progress towards compliance with the companys CSR policies.
RESEARCH AND The company invests in an active programme of research and development in support of it major international business DEVELOPMENT streams.
This programme includes the conception, design, testing and manufacture of new products to enhance the quality and safety of the companys services and minimise their environmental impact.
Where appropriate, work is sponsored at universities with expertise in specific relevant areas.
PRINCIPAL A description of the companys activities is given on pages 2 and 3.
ACTIVITIES The review of the companys affairs is given on pages 4 to 19. REVIEW OF THE YEAR RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC 23 Report of the Directors FUTURE Future developments are commented on by the chief executive in his review on pages 14 and 15.
DEVELOPMENTS DIVIDENDS An interim dividend of 1.75p per share amounting to 31.1 million was paid on 31st October 2003.
The board recommends the declaration of a final dividend of 4.35p amounting to 79.0 million adjusted for the waiver of dividend in respect of the shares held by the trustees of the Rentokil Initial Employee Share Trust payable on 4th June 2004.
The total distribution for 2003 would then be 6.10p per share 2002: 5.53p amounting to 110.1 million.
ACQUISITIONS During the year 9 companies and businesses were acquired for a total consideration of 22.2 million, which, together with adjustments for deferred consideration, took the total spend to 21.2 million.
These acquisitions contributed 20.9 million to turnover and 1.9 million to profit before interest and 1.3 million to profit after interest.
Goodwill amounting to 16.8 million has been capitalised as an intangible asset on these acquisitions.
CONSOLIDATED The consolidated profit before taxation for 2003 was 396.8 million the tax on this was 105.2 million.
ACCOUNTS The book value of the consolidated tangible fixed assets at 31st December 2003 amounted to 662.8 million 2002: 624.3 million.
Dividends declared and recommended out of 2003 profits amount to 110.1 million.
Retained profits of 180.0 million have been transferred to reserves.
Net consolidated capital employed is now negative 612.6 million compared to negative 717.3 million last year.
During 2003, employees exercised options to buy 2.1 million shares of 1p each in the capital of the company under the terms of the share option schemes approved by shareholders in general meeting.
As a result, the companys issued share premium account increased by 2.9 million.
CORPORATE The company complies with The Combined Code, appended to the Listing Rules, issued by the Financial Services GOVERNANCE Authority Combined Code.
It is the intention of the board that the company should also comply fully with the Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council on 23rd July 2003 Revised Code by the time it issues its 2004 annual report.
The companys compliance with the Combined Code and progress made in achieving compliance under the Revised Combined Code are illustrated below: 1.
Principles of good governance The company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code as set out below: a The board The board believes that it has structured its affairs to ensure that it leads and controls the company.
It is satisfied that directors bring independent judgement to bear on issues facing the company.
The board meets nine times a year and additionally when necessary and follows a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision in accordance with a board calendar which is contained in standing board procedures and practices.
As appropriate, the board delegates certain responsibilities to both standing and ad hoc committees under its standing procedures and practices on a clearly mandated basis.
At each scheduled meeting of the board, the chief executive reports on the companys operations worldwide and the finance director reports on the financial position of the company.
In addition, under the boards standing procedures and practices and the board calendar, significant issues affecting the company are reviewed on a regular basis.
24 RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC CORPORATE The chief executive is responsible for the management of the company, subject to the strategic direction of the GOVERNANCE board and such matters that the board shall specifically reserve for its consideration and approval.
He is also CONTINUED responsible for the achievement of the objectives set by the board and for preparing an overall strategy for the company to achieve such objectives and shall implement the overall strategy decided by the board through the management and organisation of the company.
Matters reserved for the approval of the board are set out in the board procedures and practices which are reviewed on a regular basis.
b Chairman and chief executive Sir Clive Thompson has been chairman of the company since May 2002 when, following the untimely death of the previous chairman, Mr H E St L King, he initially combined the roles of chief executive and chairman until Mr J C F Wilde took over as chief executive on 1st January 2003.
He retired as an executive in April 2003.
The role of the chief executive and his relationship with the board is set out in a above.
c Board balance The company ended the year with the chairman, three executive directors and five independent non-executive directors see page 20.
The board believes that the non-executive directors are independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement and thus characterises them as independent.
d Information and professional development The board is satisfied that it is provided with information in an appropriate form and quality to enable it to discharge its duties.
All directors receive full induction when they join the company.
Major shareholders are given the opportunity to meet non-executive directors, especially newly-appointed ones.
All directors have access to independent professional advice at the companys expense and have access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
e Appointments to the board Recommendations on new appointments to the board are made by the nomination committee, a majority of whose members are non-executive directors.
Non-executive directors are appointed for terms of three years subject to re-election.
Mr P Mason was elected to the board by shareholders at the annual general meeting in May 2003 with the full support of the board, following a unanimous recommendation of the nomination committee which had appointed external consultants to identify possible candidates.
f Re-election All directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
g Directors remuneration The statement of the companys policy on executive directors remuneration and details of directors emoluments are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 42.
The boards policy is that all new executive directors should have service contracts which are terminable on 12 months notice by the company.
It is also the boards policy to ensure that the company maintains contact, as and when necessary, with its principal shareholders both directly and through the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC 25 Report of the Directors CORPORATE h Relations with shareholders GOVERNANCE The board attaches considerable importance to effective communication with all shareholders.
In addition to the CONTINUED annual and interim reports, trading statements are published at the time of the annual general meeting in May and in November or December each year.
Published information on the company is available on its website.
The annual general meeting also provides an opportunity for the chief executive to make a business presentation to shareholders and for shareholders, in turn, to raise questions and discuss the company with the board.
It is standing practice for the chairman to advise the meeting of the proxy voting after each resolution has been voted on at the annual general meeting.
The chief executive and finance director hold regular meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders to discuss the companys strategy and financial performance.
Following the publication of the Revised Code, the chairman has sought the views of major UK based shareholders on how members of the board and, in particular, the non-executive directors, should develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the company with the result that the chairman and, if so requested, non-executive directors will make themselves available for discussions with shareholders at the time of the release of the preliminary results and on other occasions if specifically requested by shareholders.
i Annual general meeting All directors attend the annual general meeting and are available to answer questions put to them by shareholders.
j Accountability and audit The annual report provides information on and an assessment of the companys business, operations, financial position and prospects.
The board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, and reviews the effectiveness of the system at least annually in order to safeguard shareholders investment and the companys assets.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board has established procedures necessary to implement the requirements of the Combined Code relating to internal controls as reflected in the guidance on the review of companies systems of internal control, in accordance with the Combined Code, which has been prepared by a working party established by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The risk identification and management process has been in place during the whole of 2003 and up to the 24th March 2004, the date of the approval of the audited 2003 accounts and during that time the board has regularly reviewed the process.
The board has also carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
The process used by the board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal controls includes the review of reports on a six monthly basis, on legal compliance and claims issues.
Insurance and risk management and treasury issues are reviewed annually or more frequently if necessary.
In addition the audit committee reviews the scope of audits, the half-yearly and annual financial statements including compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and reports to the board on financial issues raised by both internal and external audit reports.
The board has modified the terms of reference of the audit committee to bring them into line with the terms of the Revised Code.
The audit committee receives reports from the internal audit department and reviews the performance of the department.
In addition, the board has adopted a range of CSR policies see page 23 which are being implemented by the company and its subsidiaries on a planned basis implementation is referred to on the companys website www.
The board is implementing a risk identification and management process in relation to social, environmental and ethical issues similar to the process used by it in relation to internal controls.
26 RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC CORPORATE k Going concern GOVERNANCE After reviewing group and company cash balances, borrowings and projected cash flows, the directors believe CONTINUED that the group and company have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
l Auditors independence The company has reviewed its relationship with its auditors,  LLP and concluded that there are sufficient controls and processes in place to ensure the required level of independence.
Consequently there are no plans to replace  LLP, whose re-appointment is proposed as set out in the notice of annual general meeting on page 78 of this annual report.
Code of best practice During the year ended 31st December 2003, the company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
CHARITABLE AND Donations for UK charitable purposes in 2003 amounted to 115,000 and a further 57,000 was donated in other POLITICAL countries.
There were no payments to political organisations.
DONATIONS AUDITORS A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the company will be proposed at the annual general meeting to be held on 27th May 2004.
AUTHORITY Shareholders approved an authority for the company to make market purchases of its own shares at the annual general TO MAKE meeting held on 29th May 2003, when authority was given to purchase up to 277 million shares.
This represented 15% PURCHASES OF of the companys issued share capital at the time, being the maximum which the Listing Rules of the UK Listing OWN SHARES Authority permit to be bought by way of market purchases under a single authority.
Since 29th May 2003 the company has purchased a further 21.9 million shares at a total cost of 43.4 million.
The current buy-back authority expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The board considers that it would be in the interests of shareholders that the board should continue to have the flexibility to buy back shares in appropriate circumstances beyond the annual general meeting.
The board is therefore seeking the authority of shareholders to buy back up to 273 million shares by way of market purchases, which represents 15% of the companys issued share capital at the date of this report.
The proposed authority is dealt with in resolution 6 contained in the notice of annual general meeting on page 78.
If given, it will replace the current authority granted on 29th May 2003.
Until the new authority is given by shareholders, the current authority allows the company to buy back approximately a further 248 million shares.
If the company were to use this authority in full, it would have approximately 1.6 billion shares in issue at the time of the new authority and, under the 15% limit in the Listing Rules referred to above, the number of shares for which shareholders could give authority would be limited to just over 235 million.
Therefore, in order to comply with the Listing Rules, the authority being proposed in resolution 6 provides that the company may not make market purchases under this authority of such number of shares as in aggregate amounts to 15% or more of the number of shares in issue immediately following the annual general meeting.
RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC 27 Report of the Directors The minimum price payable per share under the proposed authority in resolution 6 is 1p the nominal amount of each share and the maximum price exclusive of expenses is 5% above the average market price per share for the five business days immediately preceding any purchase.
The board intends to use this authority to purchase shares with discretion.
Purchases will be made only from funds not required for other purposes and in the light of prevailing market conditions.
No purchase will be made unless the board is of the opinion that it will result in an increase in earnings per share.
The board will also take into account the companys cash resources and bank facilities, the effect on gearing and other possible investment opportunities before deciding whether to exercise this authority.
Any purchase of shares pursuant to this authority will be made on market.
Shares purchased will be cancelled and will not be available for reissue.
REMUNERATION The Remuneration Report, which has been adopted by the board, is set out on pages 29 to 42 and the Statement of REPORT AND Directors Responsibilities is set out on page 43.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The board believes that the proposed resolutions to be put to the annual general meeting to be held on 27th May 2004 RECOMMENDATION are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and, accordingly, recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings in the company.
By order of the board R Ward-Jones Secretary 24th March 2004 DOCUMENTS A copy, or a memorandum of the terms, of every service contract between the company or any of its subsidiaries and AVAILABLE FOR any director of the company is available for inspection at the companys registered office and at the offices of Denton INSPECTION Wilde Sapte, One Fleet Place, London EC4M 7WS during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted until 27th May 2004 and will also be available for inspection at the place of the annual general meeting for at least fifteen minutes prior to and during the meeting.
NOTE As at the close of business on 26th March 2004 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this REGARDING document, there were options remaining to be satisfied by subscription for shares in the company in respect of PURCHASES OF 41.1million shares, which represents 2.3% of the current issued share capital of the company.
This would represent 3.1% OWN SHARES of the issued share capital of the company after the purchase and subsequent cancellation of both the remaining 248 million shares which as at 24th March 2004 the company had authority to purchase under the authority referred to above granted on 29th May 2003 and the maximum 235 million shares which the company would then have authority to purchase under the authority being proposed in resolution 6.
