company overview Rentokil Initial is one of the largest business services companies in the world, with some 93,000 employees, providing a range of support services.
Our business operates in four markets: Hygiene, Security, Facilities Management and Parcels Delivery.
The brands of Rentokil and Initial represent consistent quality of service across more than 40 countries, including the major economies in Europe, North America, Asia Pacific and Africa.
Hygiene Security 20,000 Employees 26,000 Employees 2 RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC Hygiene Hygiene Services provide a total washroom solutions service, or increasingly a mix of both, which is tailored to meet their floor mat, garment and flat linen rental services.
solutions range includes air fresheners, sanitizers, feminine Facilities Management hygiene units and hot air hand dryers, as well as dispensers and Facilities Management Services Cleaning, catering and consumables for soap, paper towels and linen roller towels.
Floor hospital services are provided as stand-alone contracts but also mats, some of which include branding and health and safety create the platform from which multi-service contracts are statements, are supplied to a wide client base.
Bespoke workwear provided offering one point of customer contact.
Any number of and uniforms are manufactured and supplied to commercial and Rentokil Initial services can be incorporated within a contract industrial customers and the hospitality sector, with full inventory using our own specialist management services.
management increasingly provided to give additional benefits to customers.
Specialist high-performance workwear for sectors such Tropical Plants Offered to customers on a rental and as the medical, hi-tech and emergency services, is also designed maintenance or purchase and maintenance basis, they range from and manufactured to meet stringent performance standards.
Flat a single plant or tree to displays for the largest atrium.
Our specialist linen primarily table and bedroom linen is rented and laundered in-house design and development team also offers a range of for corporate and hospitality customers and health service services to facilities managers, interior designers and architects, to providers.
introduce plants as an integral part of building design and refurbishment to meet the changing needs in interior environments.
Pest Control provides a service for the control of pests, primarily in the workplace.
Special emphasis is placed on health, safety and Conferencing Our UK network of 28 specialised education and protection of the environment.
Our research and development training centres meets the needs of corporate and public sector provides effective and innovative solutions for pest control, which customers.
These centres provide specialist meeting facilities, together with improved working practices, set higher standards of residential accommodation, hot desks and internet cafs, operational effectiveness and environmental care for the customer.
together with leisure and recreational amenities.
Security Parcels Delivery Effective security solutions are provided to meet customers needs As the UKs premium express service, specific deadlines or any for personal safety and protection of property.
These are met time next day deliveries can be met.
Fully integrated despatch through both the application of advanced technologies and well processes provide significant performance benefits to any trained security officers.
We provide security solutions for our customer, large or small.
customers using either electronic security or manned guarding, Facilities Management Parcels Delivery 43,000 Employees 4,000 Employees
