736505 1020 2 2 23 04 6:10 AM Page 2 Chairmans letter Dear shareholder invest approximately US$4 billion in our core Having joined the board as a non executive businesses.
director in 2001, I was delighted to be asked We aim to achieve high standards of to succeed Sir Robert Wilson as chairman in corporate governance.
Our board consists of November 2003.
I look forward to working nine non executive directors, of whom seven with Leigh Clifford and his executive team have been assessed by the board to be fully and I share fully the Groups long standing independent, four executive directors and commitment to creating shareholder value, myself as chairman.
Collectively, the non delivering operational excellence and executive directors bring an outstanding embracing sustainable development.
range of experience which is vital to good My focus will be on corporate governance and corporate accountability in governance, strategy and relations with our todays world.
An account of our level of key stakeholders.
I intend to contribute where compliance with both the current and the possible to the Groups continuing efforts to new, recently introduced, Combined Codes in integrate sustainable development into our the UK is given in our discussion of corporate business.
Rio Tinto now represents my governance starting on page 70.
We also principal activity and I will commit whatever comply with the requirements of the time is required to fulfil my role.
Australian Stock Exchange Best Practice Adjusted earnings Net earnings US$m US$m The year 2003 proved to be challenging Corporate Governance Guidelines and those for Rio Tinto.
As the world economy of other authorities in countries where we continued its slow recovery, strong growth in have obligations.
key markets, like China, resulted in significant Lord Tugendhat will be retiring from the increases in the prices of some of our key board at this years annual meeting after commodities.
This was particularly the case seven years of distinguished contribution, for with iron ore, copper and alumina.
Prices for which we thank him.
We welcomed Sir John seaborne thermal and coking coal improved Kerr, formerly head of the UK Diplomatic towards the end of the year, but those for Service, to the board in October 2003 and he industrial minerals remained weak.
is standing for election to the board at the Unfortunately, revenue gains from higher forthcoming annual general meetings.
US dollar prices were mostly offset by the This letter would not be complete without weakness of the US dollar against some of special recognition of Sir Robert Wilsons our main producing currencies.
We also retirement after 33 years of outstanding incurred higher costs as a result of supply service to the Group.
Bobs vision and and logistical constraints and a number of strategic leadership were pivotal to a number 99 00 01 02 03 03 99 00 01 02 operational events which affected production of major portfolio transactions which have at some of our businesses.
transformed Rio Tinto into the industry leading Net earnings in 2001, 2002 and 2003 were Our adjusted earnings were US$1,382 position it holds today.
We thank him for all he after exceptional items.
million, US$148 million below 2002, while has done for the Group, and for shareholders, net earnings were US$1,508 million, or and wish him well in his new activities.
The term adjusted Looking forward to 2004, we expect to Cash flow from Dividends per share earnings is defined on page 32.
Cash flow see stronger markets for a number of our operations US UK Australian from operations was US$3,486 million, only products.
Overall market conditions and US$m cents pence cents seven per cent below the previous year.
increased production from recent investments Dividends equivalent to 64 US cents per look encouraging.
However, exchange rate share have been declared for 2003 as a developments will be a critical determinant of whole compared with 60 US cents in 2002. earnings in 2004.
This also means that the 2004 interim In conclusion, I would like to dividend payable in September can be acknowledge the hard work and dedication expected to be 32 US cents per share.
of Rio Tintos employees throughout the We continue to manage our assets world in 2003.
Our diversified portfolio includes continuing commitments to our core values many world class assets across a range of is a vital factor in delivering sustained high commodities which continue to provide performance in a challenging world.
resilience in earnings as well as attractive growth opportunities.
Our current development programme includes major investments in our iron ore, bauxite and 99 00 01 02 03 02 03 02 03 02 03 alumina operations.
New capacity has also recently been added in coking coal and diamonds.
We opened impact of the weak US dollar eroding the Hail Creek coking coal mine in Australia margins and by prices which did not just as demand was firming and Comalcos strengthen until towards the end of the year.
alumina refinery in Australia, which will make However, strong cash flow and a number of us a major player in the alumina market, is on completed and current projects paved the track to ship its first product in early 2005. way for strong progress to be sustained in Opportunities to invest have been the future.
Continuing robust demand from enhanced considerably by Chinas ongoing China has presented us with opportunities for demand for raw materials.
While there will growth in a number of commodities.
undoubtedly be hiccups along Chinas growth path, fundamentally we believe the underlying Operating performance trend for industrialisation in China presents a Product group earnings were US$1,584 million, significant opportunity for the mining industry.
compared with US$1,776 million in 2002.
We have positioned Rio Tinto to take its fair Market conditions remained difficult for share of a market, the size of which has no much of the year.
An additional challenge precedent in our industry.
was the rapid depreciation of the US dollar Hail Creek coking coal is a huge against most major currencies which had a resource, giving us options for expansion as Margins significant effect on our earnings.
Periods of market demand allows.
In iron ore, we are earnings before interest, tax and exceptional items US dollar weakness have been typically expanding capacity significantly.
We have to sales revenue associated with stronger commodity prices.
options for expansion of the new Comalco We saw metals prices responding to the Alumina Refinery which will increase the weaker dollar in the second half of the year.
demand for bauxite from Weipa.
However, our US based businesses benefited In 2003, we pursued opportunities for from higher copper and gold prices without asset disposals in a patient and disciplined incurring additional production costs.
We sold our interests in Minera Demand for iron ore, alumina, coking coal Alumbrera, Peak Gold, Kaltim Prima Coal and and diamonds has been strong.
Towards the a number of exploration projects that did not end of the year there was improved demand fit our investment criteria.
The sale of and prices for thermal coal from Australia.
Fortaleza in Brazil was also agreed in 2003.
The unprecedented demand for iron ore is Following our Exploration groups stretching our infrastructure.
Capacity and evaluation of the large Resolution copper infrastructure expansions at Hamersley Iron deposit in the US, the project was transferred and Robe River are under way involving to the Copper group in 2003 for further study.
expenditure of more than US$1 billion.
99 00 01 02 03 Iron ore Strategy Iron ore shipments were at an all time high, Rio Tinto has had a very consistent strategy and we celebrated our 30th anniversary of iron Product group resulting in long term shareholder returns ore exports to China.
Rio Tinto shipped more earnings US$m superior to those delivered by most of our than 100 million tonnes of iron ore in 2003. peers.
Fundamentally, we remain convinced In December, we announced an that our competitive advantage is in mining, investment of US$920 million to increase and that returns are best in the upstream part output at Hamersley Iron.
This involves of the industry.
increasing Dampier port capacity to Furthermore, we believe that the best 116 million tonnes per annum by late 2005, returns are delivered by large, long life, low from the current 74 million tonnes per annum cost orebodies that often have the potential capacity, and expanding the Yandicoogina for further development in the future.
In order mine to produce 36 million tonnes per annum to maximise the value of these high quality by early 2005 from the 24 million tonnes per assets we focus on operational excellence.
annum capacity it will achieve in 2004.
The Our growth comes from creating options and Robe River joint venture approved a recognising opportunities.
We do not set US$105 million expansion of the new West growth targets but look at the quality of each Angelas mine from 20 million tonnes per investment opportunity on its merits.
The strength of our balance sheet Rio Tintos managed iron ore 99 00 01 02 03 coupled with the resilience of our cash flows infrastructure capacity in Australia is currently Note: 2003, 2002 and 2001 enables us to invest in projects throughout about 130 million tonnes per annum.
Across our portfolio we investments will take this to about 170 million Product group earnings are stated before exceptional items, net have a range of value creating opportunities tonnes by 2006. interest, exploration and evaluation and numerous options for future growth.
costs and other central items.
A Energy reconciliation is shown on page 132.
New projects Our energy businesses were challenged by Because our strength lies in long life assets, weak markets for most of 2003.
Continuing we have the capability in the current pit stability issues affected production in the environment to increase production in line with US.
In Australia, the formation of Rio Tinto demand.
We have recently invested heavily in Coal Australia unified management of our copper, alumina, iron ore and diamonds.
We coal interests in New South Wales and are especially pleased with the Diavik diamond Queensland.
project in Canada, which reinforces our We increased our production of hard Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements 3 1,439 25.0 1,779 29.2 1,906 29.7 1,776 24.9 1,584 19.3 736505 1030 3 5 2 22 04 5:11 PM Page 4 Chief executives report continued Net debt: total capital coking coal with the commencement of the Copper % Hail Creek mine, and the opening of the A slippage and subsequent debris flow at the Ti Tree area at the Kestrel mine.
Chinese steel Grasberg mine in Indonesia late in the year mills have shown considerable interest in the affected earnings in the fourth quarter.
Hail Creek product, indicating potential for a Despite this event and depressed prices for faster ramp up of production than was initially most of the year, our Copper group was able planned.
to maintain a robust earnings performance.
We are well positioned to benefit from an Industrial minerals upturn in the market.
We have invested a Demand for industrial minerals is related to total of US$850 million at Palabora, the performance of mature economies, which Escondida, Northparkes and Grasberg, and have been weak.
Market conditions in 2003 these projects are expected to be at full were consequently very difficult.
To varying production by 2005. degrees, all products borates, talc, titanium We have made significant progress at dioxide, salt have had to contend with soft Kennecott Utah Copper in the US to improve markets in 2003. performance.
The finalisation of a labour In the case of salt and titanium dioxide, agreement in June, work practice changes in 03 99 00 01 02 the situation has been compounded by new the mine, together with the implementation of supply and high customer stocks.
We have 12 hour shifts, have resulted in a significant curtailed production and taken action to improvement in productivity.
mitigate the impact of lower production on the cost base, in anticipation of markets Diamonds continuing to be oversupplied.
In the case of Diamonds have become a major product for our boric acid and upgraded slag Rio Tinto.
About a quarter of our exploration expansions, we are allocating resources in expenditure is devoted to the search for areas where we see good opportunities for diamonds, mainly in Canada, but also in India.
Our industrial minerals assets are of The Diavik diamond mine was completed high quality and capital demands have been ahead of schedule and within budget.
The low in recent years so cash generation process plant reached design throughput of continues to be solid.
1.5 million tonnes of ore per annum six months ahead of schedule.
We have Aluminium established a strategic planning team In aluminium, our main focus is the separate from mine operations to look at development of our alumina business.
The options, including underground mining and options we have to expand mean that we construction of a second dike to open a third could be a six million tonnes per annum kimberlite pipe.
Initial production from Diavik entered a Our two major projects in Queensland are robust diamond market and we have enjoyed working towards this goal.
Two years into good sales volumes and prices significantly construction, our new alumina refinery at higher than the feasibility study projections.
At Gladstone will come on stream at a rate of the same time, Argyle in Australia benefited 1.4 million tonnes per annum late in 2004. from the sale of stockpiled inventory.
Designed to have an ultimate annual capacity of over four million tonnes, we are already Safety, health, environment looking at a phase two expansion.
At Weipa, and communities the source of the high quality bauxite that We place the utmost importance on health underpins our alumina business, we are and safety in the workplace.
While our record increasing annual production to 16.5 million compares very well with our own and other tonnes from the current capacity of 12 million industries, the rate of improvement towards tonnes.
Three million tonnes of this capacity our goal of zero injuries levelled off in 2003. is required to support stage one of the new Rigorous compliance with the Rio Tinto alumina refinery.
safety standards and increased visible 4 Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements 24.0 38.5 42.1 41.1 33.8
