736505 1060 9 12 2 21 04 9:11 AM Page 11 to be operating at an annualised rate of on materials intensive sectors of industry and 65 US cents per pound compared with 20 million tonnes by the end of the first construction resulted in the demand for a 61 US cents per pound in 2002.
The spot quarter of 2004, two years earlier than number of metals, including steel, copper price for alumina, the raw material for originally scheduled.
The Robe River partners and aluminium, rising by over 20 per cent producing aluminium, rose very sharply agreed to share rail infrastructure with during the year.
during the year and by the end of the year a Hamersley Iron.
With China providing a consistent shortage of alumina was beginning to Freeport Indonesias Deep Ore Zone underpinning of global demand for mineral constrain world metal output.
DOZ underground block cave project was commodities, the gradual recovery in Like non ferrous metals, gold felt the declared fully operational from 1 October, demand in the OECD countries during the effects of growing speculative influences and 2002.
This achieved design capacity of second half of the year produced a the weakening of the US dollar.
Prices rose 25,000 tonnes of ore per day in 2002, a year quickening of the pace in commodity through much of the year.
The average price earlier than originally projected.
markets, leading them to end the year on a for the year was US$363 per ounce, Pacific Coal began development of the generally high note.
Also helping Hail Creek coking coal project in Queensland, The market for seaborne iron ore enjoyed to support prices, a number of gold Australia.
another strong year, its fourth successive year producers who had previously hedged their of growth, assisted by a 33 per cent increase gold sales bought back their positions, BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT in Chinas ore imports.
After producers effectively adding to gold demand.
AND MARKETS achieved a price increase of around nine per A discussion of the financial results for Overview cent during the annual contract negotiations the three years to 31 December 2003 is The world economy continued its uncertain in May, the market continued to tighten.
The given in the Financial review on pages 32 to recovery in 2003, global output rising 3.3 per high level of deliveries also created acute 36.
Comments on the financial performance cent, slightly more than the three per cent of pressures in the market for bulk shipping of the individual product groups for the three 2002.
The volume of world trade grew at resulting in record freight rates.
years to 31 December 2003 are included in around three per cent, similar to the rate The seaborne market for steam coal the Operational review on pages 37 to 56. achieved in 2002, but well below the six per started the year more slowly and contract Details of production, reserves and cent average of the previous 20 years.
prices in the Asian market were reduced for resources, and information on Group mines The year began slowly with uncertainties the second year in succession.
As the year are given on pages 13 to 24 and 26 to 31, over the strength of the US economy and progressed, however, market conditions respectively.
Analyses of Rio Tintos revenues mounting concerns over the possible impact began to improve and by the fourth quarter, by product group, geographical origin and of a war with Iraq causing growth in OECD with the strength of domestic demand geographical destination have been set out in countries to stall.
Successive US interest restricting Chinas capacity to export, spot Financial information by business unit on rates cuts, coupled with tax cuts and the prices surged ahead of contract levels.
page 132 and note 27 to the Financial conclusion of the war in April, helped to With demand concentrated more heavily statements on pages 108 to 110. reverse the trend, producing a very much on the more mature economies, the market stronger second half of the year.
for industrial minerals such as borates and Marketing channels Low interest rates in particular helped titanium dioxide did not experience the full Each business within each product group is boost the housing market and support US benefit of Chinas robust economic responsible for the marketing and sale of their consumer spending.
The renewed strength of performance.
Although the second half of the respective metal and mineral production.
US demand, however, aggravated the year represented an improvement on the first, Rio Tinto therefore has numerous marketing countrys already sizeable current account rates of demand growth generally fell short of channels, which now include electronic imbalance and pushed down the US dollar, those achieved by metals.
marketplaces, with differing characteristics particularly against the euro and against the Responding to the broader trends of and pricing mechanisms.
currencies of commodity producing countries the global economy, the markets for non In general, Rio Tintos businesses such as Australia, Canada and South Africa.
ferrous metals stalled in their upward course contract their metal and mineral production The economies of Europe and Japan during March and April, before climbing from direct to end users under long term supply followed a similar pattern to that of the US, May through to the end of the year.
Firming contracts and at prevailing market prices.
only in a weaker form and with a lag.
Growth demand and declining stocks helped Typically, these contracts specify annual in the euro zone was restrained by the underpin this shift in the market, but prices volume commitments and an agreed maintenance of a relatively tight economic also appear to have been boosted by fund mechanism for determining prices, for policy environment and by the impact on buying in anticipation of future economic example, businesses producing non ferrous export growth of the strong euro.
Germany, growth and US dollar weakness.
metals and minerals reference their sales the largest economy in Europe, recorded Global demand for copper increased prices to the London Metal Exchange LME three negative quarters of growth up to the around four per cent during 2003, China or other metal exchanges such as the middle of 2003 and, for the year as a whole, being by far the worlds strongest market.
Commodity Exchange Inc Comex in New failed to grow at all.
Like Europe, Japan also With mine output restrained by the low level York.
Fluctuations in these prices, particularly suffered from weak domestic demand of investment in recent years, refined metal for aluminium, copper and gold, inevitably although in contrast to Europe its exports production was unable to respond to rising affect the Groups financial results.
enjoyed the benefits of strong import demand demand and metal stocks fell around Businesses producing iron ore would from China.
Japans GDP for the year as a 300,000 tonnes.
Spot prices trended typically reference their sales prices to whole rose a surprisingly robust 2.3 per cent.
upwards for most of the year, achieving an annually negotiated industry benchmarks.
In Much the most dynamic market during average of 80.7 US cents a pound for the markets where international reference market the year was China.
Despite suffering the year as a whole compared to 70.6 US cents prices do not exist or are not transparent, disruptive effects of an outbreak of Severe in 2002. businesses negotiate product prices on an Acute Respiratory Syndrome SARS through Demand growth for aluminium in 2003, at individual customer basis.
the second quarter, China bounced back to eight per cent, was even more buoyant than Rio Tintos marketing channels include a record another remarkable year of economic that for copper.
However, strong Chinese network of regional sales offices worldwide.
Lifted by high levels of investment production of aluminium meant that the Some products in certain geographical and rapidly growing exports, GDP grew nine market did not experience coppers deficits.
markets are sold via third party agents or to per cent while industrial production was up Price growth for aluminium was accordingly major trading companies.
The emphasis of Chinas growth more subdued, an average spot price of Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements 11 ABOUT RIO TINTO
