This increased the present value market price change in full shareholders receive dividends in pounds of the provision for close down costs, which for 2003 year average sterling and Rio Tinto Limited shareholders increased the cumulative effect of the change US$m receive dividends in Australian dollars, which in accounting principle recorded on Copper 80 c lb 109 are determined by reference to the exchange implementation of FAS 143 in the US GAAP Aluminium 65 c lb 95 Gold US$363 oz 52 rates applicable to the US dollar two days reconciliation for 2003.
It also reduced US prior to the announcement of dividends.
GAAP earnings for 2003 by a further The above sensitivities are based on 2003 Changes in exchange rates could result in a US$82 million, largely as a result of higher volumes and give the estimated impact on reduced sterling or Australian dollar dividend depreciation charges.
net earnings of changes in prices, assuming in a year in which the US dollar value is that all other variables remain constant.
For 2002 and Asset carrying values relationships between currencies and subsequently, the policy is that the interim Exceptional charges of US$583m in 2001 commodity prices is a complex one and dividend for each year in US dollar terms will and US$879m in 2002, net of tax and movements in exchange rates can cause be equivalent to 50 per cent of the previous minority interests, related largely to movements in commodity prices and vice years total US dollar dividends.
impairment of the balance sheet carrying versa.
The sensitivities allow for the effect of values of certain of the Groups businesses.
the commodity hedges maturing in 2004, as Critical accounting policies & estimates No significant impairment charges occurred disclosed in note 28 to the Financial Dual listed company reporting in 2003 but it will be necessary to keep under statements.
As explained in detail, in the Outline of dual review in each future accounting period listed companies structure and basis of whether events or changes in circumstances Treasury management and financial financial statements, the consolidated may necessitate further adjustments to asset instruments financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group carrying values.
Treasury activities operate as a service to the deal with the results and assets and liabilities The carrying values are assessed by business of the Rio Tinto Group and not as a of both of the dual listed companies, reference to the net present values of profit centre.
Strict limits on the size and type Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited and their forecast future cash flows.
The cash flows are of transaction permitted are laid down by the subsidiaries.
They are prepared under UK particularly sensitive to the long term values Rio Tinto board and are subject to rigorous GAAP and satisfy the obligations of Rio Tinto of two particular parameters: exchange rates internal controls.
Corporate funding and Limited, as laid down by the Australian and commodity selling prices.
Management overall strategic management of Rio Tintos Securities and Investments Commission.
This considers that over time there is a tendency balance sheet is handled by the London annual report also includes reconciliation for increases in prices to compensate to based Group Treasury.
statements setting out the effect of the some extent for a reduction in the value of Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue adjustments to net earnings and to the US dollar and vice versa.
But such derivative financial instruments for trading or shareholders funds for the Group that would compensating changes are not synchronised speculative purposes: and does not believe be required, under Australian and under US and do not fully offset each other.
The great that it has exposure to such trading or GAAP.
The US dollar is the presentation majority of the Groups sales are based on speculative holdings through its investments currency used in these financial statements, prices denominated in US dollars.
To the in joint ventures and associates.
Derivatives as it most reliably reflects the Groups global extent that the US dollar weakens without are used to separate funding and cash business performance.
commodity price offset, cash flows and management decisions from currency The treatment of gains and losses on US therefore net present values are reduced.
exposure and interest rate management.
The dollar debt is described above in the section During 2003, the US dollar weakened by Group uses interest rate swaps in dealing with Exchange rates, reporting 32 per cent against the Australian dollar, by conjunction with longer term funds raised in currencies and currency exposure.
22 per cent against the Canadian dollar, and the capital markets to achieve a floating rate 30 per cent against the South African rand.
obligation which is consistent with the Ore reserve estimates Towards the end of 2003, there were Groups interest rate policy.
Currency swaps Rio Tinto estimates its ore reserves and substantial increases in commodity prices, are used to convert debt or investments into mineral resources based on information which have continued to rise in early 2004. currencies, primarily the US dollar, which are compiled by Competent Persons as defined Rio Tintos cash flow forecasts are based consistent with the Groups policy on in accordance with the Australasian Code for on assessments of expected long term currency exposure management.
No material Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore commodity prices derived from analysis of exposure is considered to exist by virtue of Reserves of September 1999 the JORC supply and demand for particular products.
the possible non performance of the code.
There are numerous uncertainties These assessments often differ from current counterparties to financial instruments held inherent in estimating ore reserves: and price levels and are updated periodically.
assumptions that are valid at the time of the majority of Rio Tintos businesses, by The derivative contracts in which the estimation may change significantly when both number and by value, the net present Group is involved are valued for the purposes new information becomes available.
value of the expected cash flows, using the of the Financial instrument disclosures in the Changes in the forecast prices of most recent assessments, is substantially in Financial statements by reference to quoted commodities, exchange rates, production excess of the carrying value in the balance market prices, quotations from independent costs or recovery rates may change the sheet.
For a minority of the businesses the financial institutions or by discounting economic status of reserves and may, carrying value is close to the net present expected cash flows.
ultimately, result in the reserves being value of the cash flows, using the most restated.
Such changes in reserves could recent assessments.
The effects of exchange Dividends impact on depreciation rates, asset carrying rates and commodity price changes on the Dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto values and provisions for close down, values of these units relative to their book Limited shares are equalised on a net cash restoration and environmental costs.
basis: that is without taking into account any The SEC has indicated that, for US associated tax credits.
Dividends are reporting, historical price data should be used Environmental obligations determined in US dollars.
as a basis for ore reserve estimation.
The Provision is made for environmental Rio Tintos progressive dividend policy application of such historical prices has led to remediation costs when the related aims to increase the US dollar value of reduced ore reserve quantities for US environmental disturbance occurs, based on dividends over time, without cutting them in reporting purposes for certain of the Groups the net present value of estimated future Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements 35 FINANCIAL REVIEW 736505 1130 32 2 21 04 9:28 AM Page 36 Financial review continued costs.
Where the ultimate cost of deferred or accrued are those relating to the International Financial Reporting Standards.
environmental disturbance is uncertain, there excess or shortfall of the current period may be variances from these cost estimates, stripping ratio compared with that projected Comparative figures which could affect future financial results.
The life of mine In the Operational review section, Close down and restoration costs are a stripping ratio is based on the proven and comparative figures have been restated to normal consequence of mining, and the probable reserves of the operation.
reflect the composition of each product majority of close down and restoration In operations that experience material group in 2003, as well as a change in the expenditure is incurred at the end of the life fluctuations in the stripping ratio on a year by basis of attribution of post retirement costs to of the mine.
Although the ultimate cost to be year basis over the life of the mine, deferral of business units.
These changes are explained incurred is uncertain, subsidiary companies stripping costs is designed to smooth the in more detail on pages 132 and 133. have estimated their respective costs based cost of stripping allocated to individual on feasibility and engineering studies using reporting periods, generally in relation to the Forward looking statements current restoration standards and techniques.
Stripping costs Forward looking statements are contained in incurred in the period are deferred to the this financial review and attention is drawn to Post retirements benefits extent that the stripping ratio exceeds the life the Cautionary statement on pages 7 and 8.
Post retirement benefits are accounted for in of mine stripping ratio.
Such deferred costs accordance with Statement of Standard are then charged against reported profits to Accounting Practice 24, which requires the extent that, in subsequent periods, the gradual recognition of the surpluses and stripping ratio falls short of the life of mine deficits that emerge as a result of variances stripping ratio.
The Accounting In some operations, there are distinct Standards Board has extended the periods of new development during the transitional period before FRS 17 is required production stage of the mine.
These may, for to be implemented.
Under FRS 17, all deficits example, relate to a separate ore body or would be recognised in full and surpluses discrete section of the ore body.
The new would be recognised to the extent that they development will be characterised by a major are considered recoverable.
FRS 17 departure from the life of mine stripping ratio.
transitional disclosures are included on pages Excess stripping costs during such periods 125 to 128.
If FRS 17 had been applied in are deferred and subsequently amortised drawing up the 2003 financial statements, pro rata, generally to the tonnage of ore shareholders funds would have been mined in the remaining life of the operation.
US$650 million lower, including the impact of Deferred stripping costs form part of the the level of stock markets at 31 December total investment in the relevant income 2003, and net earnings would have been generating unit, which is reviewed for US$17 million higher.
impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value Overburden removal costs may not be recoverable.
In open pit mining operations, it is necessary During 2003, production stage stripping to remove overburden and other waste costs incurred by subsidiaries and equity materials to access ore from which minerals accounted operations exceeded the amounts can economically be extracted.
The process charged against pre tax profit by of mining overburden and waste materials is US$109 million.
The net book value carried referred to as stripping.
During the forward in property, plant and equipment and development of a mine, before production in investments in joint ventures and commences, it is generally accepted that associated companies at 31 December 2003 stripping costs are capitalised as part of the was US$671 million.
investment in construction of the mine.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs Stripping of waste materials continues is included in depreciation of property, plant during the production stage of the mine.
and equipment or in the Groups share of Some mining companies expense these the results of its equity accounted operations, production stage stripping costs as incurred, as appropriate.
while others defer such stripping costs.
Those mining companies that expense Contingencies stripping costs as incurred will report greater Disclosure is made of material contingent volatility in the results of their operations from liabilities unless the possibility of any loss period to period.
Disclosure of Rio Tinto defers stripping costs for those material contingent assets is made where the operations where this is the most appropriate inflow of economic benefits is probable.
basis for matching costs with the related Contingencies are disclosed in note 29 on economic benefits, and the effect is material.
These include tax assessments of The relationship between the stripping approximately A$500 million, which, based ratio in the period and that planned for the on Counsels opinion, the Group expects to life of the particular mine is important in be successful in challenging.
determining the amount, if any, of stripping costs that are deferred.
The stripping ratio is International financial reporting generally calculated by dividing the tonnage standards of waste mined by the tonnage of ore mined To satisfy its reporting obligations in the UK during the relevant period.
In these cases, and in Australia, the Group will be drawing up deferral of stripping costs is not impacted by its financial statements for 2005 and the reported ore grade.
The costs to be subsequent years in accordance with 36 Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements FINANCIAL REVIEW 736505 1140 a 37 39 2 21 04 12:07 PM Page 37 Operational review Rio Tintos Iron Ore group wholly owns 30 per cent higher than 2002.
Strong demand Hamersley Iron in Western Australia.
for iron and steel in China bolstered demand Iron Ore group Hamersley Iron wholly owns five mines and for iron ore in other markets, with Japan, also operates the 60 per cent owned Korea and Taiwan all at record levels.
Iron Ore Iron Ore Channar mine, a joint venture with an Price increases reflected the strong Rio Tinto share Rio Tinto share million tonnes million tonnes Australian subsidiary of the China Iron & Steel market, with a nine per cent increase for MINED RESERVES Industry & Trade Group Corporation.
The Iron Ore group also includes In September Hamersley became aware Rio Tintos effective 53 per cent interest in that China Iron & Steel Industry Trade Group Robe River Iron Associates two mines in Corporation had entered into a conditional Western Australia and Rio Tintos 59 per cent heads of agreement with Lynas Corporation interest in the Iron Ore Company of Canada.
Ltd to dispose of its 40 per cent interest in The Iron Ore group operates both the Channar Joint Venture in return for cash enterprises, which were acquired in 2000. and shares in Lynas under a transaction In addition, the Iron Ore group includes which remains incomplete.
Hamersley the HIsmelt direct smelting technology subsequently issued proceedings in the developed in Western Australia.
Western Australia Supreme Court to protect At 31 December 2003, the group confidential joint venture information.
Those accounted for 25 per cent of Rio Tintos proceedings are continuing.
operating assets, an increase of four per cent 2002 compared with 2001 over the year.
In 2003, the group contributed approximately 18 per cent of the Groups The Iron Ore groups contribution to 2002 99 00 01 02 03 03 99 00 01 02 03 03 turnover and 36 per cent of adjusted earnings was US$452 million, US$50 million earnings, up two and six per cent lower than in 2001. respectively on 2002.
Adjusted earnings are After a relatively slow start, and with Iron Ore explained on page 32. considerable uncertainty surrounding the Earnings contribution Late in the year, Rio Tinto reached future outlook, the performance of the world US$m agreement with its joint venture partners in iron and steel industry improved markedly Robe River to allow closer cooperation throughout 2002. between the Pilbara operations of Hamersley Reflecting the early uncertainty, global Iron and Robe.
iron ore prices declined in 2002 by 2.4 per Under the agreement, the two cent for fines, 5.0 per cent for lump and companies existing separate structures will 5.5 per cent for pellets.
However, as demand continue, with no change to the ownership of grew through the year, especially from China, Robe or Hamersley Iron or to the ownership shipments increased quarter by quarter, of their respective assets.
While preserving leading to some delays in loading vessels and these structural elements, the agreement consequent demurrage costs towards the allows for continued cooperation and end of the year.
common usage of rail infrastructure: for An exceptional charge of US$235 million closer cooperation and common usage of relating to the impairment of asset carrying infrastructure areas such as port and power: values at IOC was recorded in the fourth and for closer cooperation in relation to the quarter of 2002. management of non infrastructure assets, including mobile and other mining equipment Hamersley Iron Rio Tinto: 100 per cent 99 00 01 03 02 and site and corporate services.
Hamersley Irons six mines in Western Note: 2002 excludes New entities will be formed to facilitate Australia, 630 kilometre dedicated railway, exceptional charges the implementation of the agreement.
The and port and infrastructure facilities at entities will collectively be referred to as Dampier are run as one operation.
Rio Tinto and the Robe River Joint In 2003, Hamersley Iron completed Venture participants are working towards final option analysis studies to increase its system documentation of the agreement, and capacity to ensure its ability to meet the implementation will be subject to obtaining needs of customers and the strong growth in any necessary Government approvals.
demand for iron ore, particularly in China.
In January 2004, Hamersley Iron As a consequence, in December, announced iron ore price settlements that Rio Tinto approved projects to expand the increased prices by 18.62 per cent for the Dampier port and the Yandicoogina mine contract commencing 1 April 2004. worth a total of US$920 million, with Chris Renwick, chief executive Iron Ore, US$200 million of this committed to long lead is based in Perth, Western Australia.
The port expansion will increase FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Dampiers export capacity from 74 million 2003 compared with 2002 tonnes per annum to 116 million tonnes per The Iron Ore groups contribution to 2003 annum.
The Yandicoogina mine expansion earnings was US$499 million, US$47 million will increase output to 36 million tonnes per higher than in 2002. annum from the 24 million tonne per annum Demand for iron ore continued to be capacity it will achieve in 2004. extremely strong throughout 2003, particularly Construction on both projects began in from China, where imports of iron ore were December 2003.
