736505 1140 a 37 39 2 21 04 12:07 PM Page 38 Operational review continued 36 million tonne Yandicoogina mine to stretch output.
Key sustainable savings will increase Robes production capacity to a expansion is expected in early 2005. achieved included: ongoing operational nominal 50 million tonnes per year.
In 2003, Completion of the port expansion is improvements including benefits realised from Robe obtained approval to expand West scheduled for late 2005, with progressive Pilbara Rail: continued improvement in labour Angelas to 25 million tonnes per year.
Work is commissioning from early 2006. productivity, including benefits flowing from scheduled to begin on the US$105 million Studies are continuing into providing the consolidation of information technology expansion in early 2004 and is expected to additional rail, power and other infrastructure and accounting resources into a shared be complete by mid 2005. to complement the new port and mine services group for Rio Tinto in Western Robe uses a dedicated rail system, requirements.
Studies into further new mine Australia: and savings accrued from a large operated by Pilbara Rail, to transport ore capacity to meet future growth in demand are number of targeted projects including from its mines to the companys deepwater also being advanced.
rescheduling of operations, procurement port facilities at Cape Lambert for export.
Construction of the US$64 million benefits and capital investment.
Additional Robe exports under medium and long Eastern Range mine continued on target for a costs arose from the need to ensure term supply contracts with major integrated production start in early 2004.
Located ten competitive remuneration in the Pilbara.
steel mill customers in Japan, Europe, South kilometres east of Paraburdoo, the mine will Hamersley Iron continued to work Korea and China.
service an unincorporated joint venture sustainable development principles into its between Hamersley Iron and Shanghai daily operations throughout the year, using a 2003 operating performance Baosteel Group Corporation, Chinas largest modified version of its decision making Robes total production in 2003 was a record iron and steel maker.
The joint venture, in methodology to enhance stakeholder 45.1 million tonnes, comprising 32 million which Hamersley Iron holds a 54 per cent engagement in the port and Yandicoogina tonnes from Pannawonica, and 13.1 million equity share, will supply about ten million expansion projects.
In November 2003, tonnes from West Angelas.
tonnes of standard Hamersley Iron ore Hamersley Iron also achieved certification Total sales were 43.9 million tonnes, with products per year over 20 years.
under ISO 14001 for its environmental strong demand for Robe products in all major management system.
Sales included 31.1 million tonnes 2003 operating performance Ore reserves changed in line with from Pannawonica and 12.8 million tonnes of Hamersley Irons total production in 2003 was delineation drilling to improve confidence, West Angelas.
Sales growth was based on a record 73.4 million tonnes, 5.2 million annual extraction and updated mine planning.
increased West Angelas tonnage availability, tonnes more than in 2002.
Rio Tintos share Ore reserves are now expressed by material and focused primarily on Japan, where all of this production was 69.3 million tonnes.
type to clarify their likely use.
customers exercised their tonnage options.
Shipments by Hamersley Iron totalled a Further penetration of the Chinese market Hamersley Irons total sales of iron ore to major record 74.3 million tonnes, including sales was also achieved.
Increased marketing effort markets in 2003 through joint ventures.
Hamersley Irons in China resulted in the signing of long term shipments to China also reached a record level Million tonnes agreements with large steel mill customers.
at 33.9 million tonnes, making China by far the China 33.9 The mine development schedule for West single largest destination for Hamersley Iron ore. Japan 19.0 Angelas has been accelerated in response to Production from all mines was stretched Other Asia 16.0 high customer demand.
to achieve these levels, placing cost and Europe 5.4 The business met the challenges other operating stresses on the Hamersley Total 74.3 presented by the accelerated West Angelas Iron system.
Maintenance programmes were Note: This table includes 100 per cent of all sales production schedule, along with the through joint ventures.
maintained to ensure continued ability to introduction of new processes at the port and service growing market demand, including business improvement activities occurring at Robe River Iron Associates Rio Tinto: the first changeout of the Channar mines all sites.
At both Pannawonica and West 53 per cent 20 kilometre conveyor belt since the mine Angelas increased focus was placed on began production in 1990.
Robe River Iron Associates Robe is an waste stripping and improved equipment The Brockman mine reopened in unincorporated joint venture in which Mitsui availability.
This year improved business February 2003, following a major refit to lift 33 per cent, Nippon Steel 10.5 per cent planning processes were introduced to capacity to approximately eight million tonnes and Sumitomo Metal Industries 3.5 per cent ensure effective communication and per year, allowing it to service the adjacent also have interests.
Robe is the worlds fourth coordination between the sites.
largest seaborne trader in iron ore, employing Robes safety performance continued to The Pilbara Rail Company, formed in approximately 735 people.
improve, with sustained use of behaviour 2002, which effectively integrates the rail The company operates two open pit based safety tools such as peer observations networks of Hamersley Iron and Robe River mining operations in Western Australia.
Increased priority into a single operation, continued to deliver Mesa J is located in the Robe Valley, north of has been placed on prompt reporting and operating savings through rolling stock, track the town of Pannawonica.
The mine investigation of near misses.
produces Robe River fines and lump, which Robes total sales of iron ore to major markets Further new track was built in 2003 to are pisolitic iron ore products.
The West in 2003 duplicate a 50 kilometre section of the main Angelas mine, opened in 2002, is located line, and additional locomotives and ore cars approximately 100 kilometres west of the Million tonnes were commissioned to enhance the overall town of Newman.
The mine produces West Japan 26.2 system capacity.
Angelas fines and lump, which are Marra Europe 9.4 In the spirit of closer cooperation with Mamba iron ore products.
Other Asia 3.1 Robe, Hamersley Iron for the first time The mine schedule for West Angelas China 5.2 shipped product from its Yandicoogina mine production capacity is being accelerated.
Total 43.9 through Robes Cape Lambert port facilities in Mine production reached an annualised rate October, increasing operational flexibility and of 18 million tonnes per year in December Iron Ore Company of Canada Rio Tinto: 58.7 per cent helping to relieve congestion at Dampier.
2003, and West Angelas is on schedule to The US$55 million structured cost saving reach its original design rate of 20 million Following a capital restructuring, Rio Tintos programme begun in 2001 was completed in tonnes per year by the end of the first quarter interest in Iron Ore Company of Canada IOC 2003, but was offset by higher costs incurred of 2004, two years earlier than planned.
This increased from 56.1 per cent to 58.7 per 38 Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements OPERATIONAL REVIEW 736505 1140 a 37 39 2 21 04 12:07 PM Page 39 cent in December 2002.
Mitsubishi 26.2 per technology allows efficient processing of ore cent and the Labrador Iron Ore Royalty fines with higher levels of impurities, the Income Fund 15.1 per cent are also current market for which is limited using shareholders in IOC, Canadas largest iron standard blast furnace technology and ore pellet producer.
IOC operates an open pit operating techniques.
mine, concentrator and pellet plant at The HIsmelt project at Kwinana is a joint Labrador City, Newfoundland, together with a venture between Rio Tinto 60 per cent interest 420 kilometre railway to port facilities and the through its subsidiary, HIsmelt Corporation, partially refurbished pellet plant at Sept-Iles, US steelmaker Nucor Corporation 25 per Quebec.
cent, Mitsubishi Corporation ten per cent, Products are transported on IOCs and Chinese steel maker Shougang Quebec North Shore and Labrador Railway Corporation five per cent.
The port is open all year and The plant will have a production capability handles ore carriers of up to 255,000 tonnes.
of 800,000 tonnes per year and the project is IOC exports its concentrate and pellet on budget and on schedule to commence products to major North American, European production at the end of 2004. and Asia Pacific steel makers.
In 2003, HIsmelt signed a process The Sept-Iles pellet plant remains closed, licence agreement with the Laiwu Steel following the suspension in September 2001 Group Ltd. of China to allow for the of the US$240 million refurbishment project.
development of an iron making facility using IOC employs approximately 1,900 people HIsmelt technology.
and in April 1999, signed a five year agreement with the United Steelworkers of America.
This is due for renegotiation at the end of February 2004.
2003 operating performance The year was another challenging one for IOC.
Difficult market conditions continued in North America as the steel industry there continued to restructure.
Despite this, pellet sales volumes reached a record high through increased sales to existing customers in Europe and the Asia Pacific.
Pellet production returned to 2001 levels, well above 2002.
However, IOC experienced operational difficulties, particularly with the commissioning of the control system on its ATO Automatic Train Operation system in the first half.
This lead to a shortfall in planned concentrate production for the year.
During 2003, IOC maintained its focus on the cost reduction programme that commenced in 2002 and workforce reductions continued as planned under the accelerated retirement programme.
IOC also made gains in improving the reliability of key production systems, positioning it for 2004.
Emphasis on improved safety performance continues.
IOCs total sales of iron ore to major markets in 2003 Million tonnes North America 4.7 Europe 6.5 Asia Pacific 3.7 Total 14.9 IRON ORE GROUP PROJECTS HIsmelt Rio Tinto: 60 per cent Construction began in January 2003 on a HIsmelt plant at Kwinana in Western Australia.
The HIsmelt process is a revolutionary direct iron smelting technology developed largely by Rio Tinto that will convert iron ore fines into high quality pig iron 96 per cent iron content without the use of coke ovens and sinter plants.
Notably, the Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements 39 OPERATIONAL REVIEW
