736505 1050 7 8 2 21 04 12:51 PM Page 7 Risk factors and cautionary statement RISK FACTORS social approvals required that can potentially Health, safety and environment The following describes some of the risks that result in significant increases in construction Rio Tinto operates in an industry that is could affect Rio Tinto.
In addition, some risks costs and or significant delays in subject to numerous health, safety and may be unknown to Rio Tinto and other risks, construction.
These increases could environmental laws and regulations and currently believed to be immaterial, could turn materially and adversely impact upon a community expectations.
Evolving regulatory out to be material.
These risks, whether projects economics, the Groups asset standards and expectations can result in individual or simultaneous occurrences, could values, costs, earnings and cash flows.
increased litigation and or increased capital, significantly affect the Groups business and operating, compliance and remediation costs financial results.
They should also be Reserve estimation all of which can have a material and adverse considered in connection with any forward There are numerous uncertainties inherent in impact on earnings and cash flows.
looking statements in this document and the estimating ore reserves.
Reserves that are cautionary statement below.
valid at the time of estimation may change Mining operations significantly when new information becomes Mining operations are vulnerable to a number Economic conditions available.
Fluctuations in the price of of circumstances beyond the Groups control, Commodity prices, and demand for the commodities, exchange rates, increased including transport disruption, weather and Groups products, are influenced strongly by production costs or reduced recovery rates other natural disasters such as cyclones and world economic growth, particularly that in may render lower grade reserves uneconomic flooding, unexpected maintenance problems, the US and China.
The Groups normal policy and may, ultimately, result in a restatement.
collapse or damage to pit walls, unexpected is to sell its products at prevailing market A significant restatement could have a geological variations and industrial actions.
Commodity prices can fluctuate material and adverse impact on the Groups These can affect costs at particular mines for widely and could have a material and adverse asset values, costs, cash flows and earnings.
Mining, smelting and refining impact on the Groups asset values, processes also rely on key inputs, for revenues, earnings and cash flows.
Further Political and community example fuel and electricity.
Appropriate discussion can be found on page 11, The Group has operations in some countries insurance can provide protection from some, Business environment and markets, and on where varying degrees of political instability but not all, of the costs that may arise from page 34, Commodity prices.
Political instability can result in civil unforeseen events.
Disruption to the supply unrest, expropriation, nationalisation, of key inputs, or changes in their pricing, may Exchange rates renegotiation or nullification of existing have a material and adverse impact on the The Groups assets, earnings and cash flows contracts, mining leases and permits or other Groups costs, earnings and cash flows.
are influenced by a wide variety of currencies agreements, changes in laws, taxation due to the geographic diversity of the policies or currency restrictions.
Any of these Rehabilitation Groups sales and the countries in which it can have a material adverse impact upon the Costs associated with rehabilitating land operates.
The US dollar is the currency in profitability or, in extreme cases, the viability disturbed during the mining process and which the majority of the Groups sales are of an operation.
addressing environmental, health and denominated.
The Australian and US dollars Some of the Groups current and community issues are estimated and are the most important currencies influencing potential operations are located in or near provided for based on the most current costs.
The relative value of currencies can communities that may now, or in the future, information available.
However, there is a risk fluctuate widely and could have a material regard such an operation as having a that estimates may be insufficient and or and adverse impact on the Groups revenues, detrimental effect on their economic and further issues may be identified.
Any earnings and cash flows.
Should this occur, it underestimated or unidentified rehabilitation can be found on page 34, Exchange rates, might have a material adverse impact upon costs will reduce earnings and could reporting currencies and currency exposure.
the profitability or, in extreme cases, the materially and adversely affect the Groups viability of an operation.
In addition, such an financial results and cash flows.
Acquisitions event may adversely affect the Groups ability The Group has grown partly through the to enter into new operations.
Non managed operations acquisition of other businesses.
There are Rio Tinto cannot guarantee that local numerous risks commonly encountered in Technology management of mining and processing business combinations and Rio Tinto cannot The Group has invested in and conducts assets where it does not have managerial ensure that management will be able information system and operational initiatives.
control will comply with the Groups effectively to integrate businesses acquired, Several technical aspects of these initiatives standards or objectives, nor that they or generate the cost savings and synergies are still unproven and the eventual continually maintain effective policies, anticipated.
Failure to do so could have a operational outcome or commercial viability procedures and controls, including disclosure material and adverse impact on the Groups cannot be assessed with certainty.
and reporting controls, over their assets.
costs, earnings and cash flows.
Accordingly, the costs and benefits from participating and investing in new CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ABOUT Exploration and new projects technologies and the consequent effects on FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS The Group seeks to identify new mining the Groups future earnings and financial This document contains certain forward properties through an active exploration results may vary widely from present looking statements with respect to the programme.
However, there is no guarantee expectations.
financial condition, results of operations and that such expenditure will be recouped or business of the Rio Tinto Group.
The words that the existing mineral reserves will be Land and resource tenure intend, aim, project, anticipate, replaced.
Failure to do so could have a The Group operates in several countries estimate, plan, believes, expects, material and adverse impact on the Groups where title to land and rights in respect of may, should, will, or similar expressions, financial results and prospects.
land and resources including indigenous title commonly identify such forward looking The Group develops new mining are sometimes unclear and disputes may statements.
Examples of forward looking properties and expands its existing arise over resource development.
Such statements in this Annual report include those operations as a means of generating disputes could disrupt some mining projects regarding estimated reserves, anticipated shareholder value.
However, there are and or impede the Groups ability to develop production or construction commencement increasing regulatory, environmental and new mining properties.
dates, costs, outputs and productive lives of Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements 7 RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
