736505 1030 3 5 2 21 04 9:25 AM Page 5 leadership from all levels of management is benefit from improving economic conditions.
The 2003 winners of the Chief In 2003, the world economy ended in Executives Safety Award were US Boraxs better shape, with growth in China being a Boron mine in California, Rio Tinto Brasils significant factor.
Together with the cyclical Morro do Ouro gold mine and Comalcos upswing in the US and in other developed Tiwai Point aluminium smelter in New economies, significant pressure is being Zealand.
The award recognises outstanding exerted on mineral raw materials markets.
performance as a leadership example for Iron ore and coking coal are particularly short other Group operations.
whilst copper is getting rapidly tighter.
Despite our strenuous efforts, I very much Deferral of production at Grasberg due to regret to have to report that there were six the slippage event will, however, affect deaths at operations we manage in 2003: copper production.
three were Group employees and three were The major economic uncertainty ahead contractors.
There were 468 lost time lies in the currency markets, both with incidents during the year, a four per cent respect to possible impacts on our costs decrease from 2002.
The frequency rate was expressed in US dollars, and the responses 0.81 compared with 0.85 in 2002. which further moves in exchange rates might By the end of 2003, 80 per cent of our provoke from economic policy makers.
managed operations had implemented the Our natural hedge against the weakening ISO 14001 environmental management US dollar provided by strengthening prices system EMS or equivalent.
We are now for our diverse product range protects us to requiring all operations to certify their EMS by some extent, as does our policy of borrowing mid 2005.
To complement the safety at floating interest rates, but the relative value standards we are implementing Group wide of the US dollar remains a key uncertainty.
occupational health and environment Considering the expansion plans we have standards.
We are targeting fewer workplace announced, and the strong outlook for a exposures and new cases of occupational number of our products on the back of disease.
We seek improved efficiency of growth in China, we see a promising medium greenhouse gas emissions, energy use and to long term outlook, with our performance fresh water withdrawn from the environment.
underpinned by some of the best mining Specific five year targets have been assets in the world.
integrated into business plans to ensure that Finally, whatever the mix of challenge and fully resourced and costed action plans are in opportunity, I am delighted to be supported place to achieve them.
by a very strong management team and We made further progress in integrating employees of the highest calibre.
In the end, sustainable development practices and it is the quality of people that makes the approaches into our activities.
Most difference in delivering long term value.
businesses have appointed cross functional Recognising this, we are increasing our focus teams to implement a sustainable on developing a cadre of future leaders.
development framework appropriate to local I believe that Rio Tinto is exceptionally well circumstances, and efforts are being made to placed in this regard to continue to deliver formalise the incorporation of relevant criteria value to our shareholders.
All of our businesses continued to report social and environmental performance to their local communities.
Increasingly, this includes community verification.
Outlook While 2003 was challenging, the Groups strong fundamentals ensured a satisfactory operating and financial result.
We are ready to Leigh Clifford Chief executive Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements 5
