736505 1180 73 2 24 04 1:38 PM Page 73 Audit committee charter Scope and authority Charter required information or any other matters The primary function of the Audit committee Review and, if appropriate, update this that the committee deems appropriate.
is to assist the boards of directors in fulfilling Charter at least annually.
their responsibilities by reviewing: Risk management the financial information that will be Financial reporting and internal financial Review and evaluate the internal processes provided to shareholders and the public: controls for determining and managing key risk the systems of internal financial controls Review with management and the external areas.
that the boards and management have auditors the Groups financial statements, Ensure the Group has an effective risk established: and stock exchange and media releases in management system and that macro risks the Groups auditing, accounting and respect of each half year and full year.
are reported at least annually to the boards.
Review with management and the external Require periodic reports from nominated auditors the accounting policies and senior managers: In carrying out its responsibilities the committee practices adopted by the Companies and confirming the operation of the risk has full authority to investigate all matters that their compliance with accounting management system including advice fall within the terms of reference of this Charter.
standards, stock exchange listing rules and that accountable management have Accordingly, the committee may: relevant legislation.
confirmed the proper operation of obtain independent professional advice in Discuss with management and the external agreed risk mitigation strategies and the satisfaction of its duties at the cost of auditors managements choice of controls, and the Group: and accounting principles and material detailing material risks.
have such direct access to the resources of judgments, including whether they are Address the effectiveness of the Groups the Group as it may reasonably require aggressive or conservative and whether internal control system with management including the external and internal auditors.
they are common or minority practices.
and the internal and external auditors.
Recommend to the boards that the annual Evaluate the process the Companies has in Composition financial statements reviewed by the place for assessing and continuously The Audit committee shall comprise three or committee or the chairman representing improving internal controls, particularly more non executive directors, at least three the committee for this purpose be those related to areas of material risk.
of whom shall be independent.
The boards included in the Groups annual report.
will determine each directors independence Review the regular reports prepared by the Other matters having regard to any past and present internal auditor including the effectiveness The committee shall also perform any other relationships with the Group which, in the of the Groups internal financial controls.
activities consistent with this Charter that the opinion of the boards, could influence the committee or boards deem appropriate.
External auditors will include, but not be limited to: All members of the committee shall have Recommend to the boards the external Review of the Groups insurance cover.
a working knowledge of basic finance and auditors to be proposed to shareholders.
Review of the corporate governance accounting practices.
At least one member of Review with the external auditors the practices of Group sponsored pension the committee will have accounting or related planned scope of their audit and funds.
financial management expertise, as subsequently their audit findings including determined by the boards.
A quorum will comprise any two Periodically consult with the external independent directors.
auditors out of the presence of The committee may invite members of the management about the quality of the management team to attend the meetings Groups accounting principles, material and to provide information as necessary.
judgments and any other matters that the committee deems appropriate.
Meetings Review the performance of the external The committee shall meet not less than four auditors and the effectiveness of the audit times a year or more frequently as process, taking into consideration relevant circumstances require.
Audit committee professional and regulatory requirements.
minutes will be confirmed at the following Review and approve the fees and other meeting of the committee and tabled as soon compensation to be paid to the external as practicable at a meeting of the boards.
The Groups senior financial Ensure that the external auditors submit a management, external auditors and internal written statement outlining all of its auditor shall be available to attend all professional relationships with the Group meetings.
including the provision of services that may As part of its responsibility to foster open affect their objectivity or independence.
communication, the committee should meet Review and discuss with the external with management, the external auditors and auditors all significant relationships they the internal auditor, at least annually, to discuss have with the Group to determine their any matters that are best dealt with privately.
Responsibilities Internal auditor The boards and the external auditors are Review the qualifications, organisation, accountable to shareholders.
The Audit strategic focus and resourcing of internal committee is accountable to the boards.
internal auditor is accountable to the Audit Review the internal audit plans.
committee and the finance director.
Periodically consult privately with the To fulfil its responsibilities the committee internal auditor about any significant shall: difficulties encountered including restrictions on scope of work, access to Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements 73 AUDIT COMMITTEE
