736505 1140 g 52 53 2 21 04 12:25 PM Page 52 Operational review continued Rio Tinto Exploration seeks to discover or with the intention of commencing an order of identify mineral resources that will contribute magnitude study in 2004.
Exploration to the growth of the Rio Tinto Group.
The Exploration for nickel in the Upper discovery of new resources is essential to Peninsular of Michigan in the US resulted in group replace deposits as they are mined and to the discovery of a small high grade nickel help meet the increasing global demand for copper deposit at Eagle.
A resource of minerals and metals.
five million tonnes grading 3.6 per cent nickel, The Exploration group is opportunistic in three per cent copper with platinum group approach and its resources are deployed on metal and gold credits is inferred.
Studies are projects that show the best chance of underway to assess mining and processing delivering a world class deposit to Rio Tinto.
options, environmental impacts and Mineral exploration is a high risk activity.
Rio Tintos statistics show that an average of In Mozambique, more detailed evaluation only one in 350 mineral prospects that are work in 2003 has led to a 30 per cent drill tested result in a mine for the Group.
increase in the resource base to some Rio Tinto believes in having a critical mass of 160 million tonnes of ilmenite.
The deposits projects, selected through a rigorous process occur near to the coast, are amenable to of prioritisation.
conventional dredging methods and have a The Exploration group is organised into low slimes content.
four geographically based teams and a fifth Although extensions to the previously team that looks for industrial minerals on a discovered gold mineralisation at pler in global basis.
Additionally, a small focused Turkey and to the copper mineralisation at project generation team covers the world for Marcona in Peru were intersected, neither new opportunities.
resource is likely to meet Rio Tinto criteria for At the end of 2003, Rio Tinto was size and mine life.
pler was divested and exploring in 30 countries for a broad range of Marcona is for sale.
commodities including copper, diamonds, Diamond exploration continued in nickel, industrial minerals, gold, bauxite, iron Canada, southern Africa, Brazil and India.
Exploration employs 189 New diamond bearing kimberlite pipes were geologists and geophysicists around the discovered in a number of locations and world and has a total staff of 670 people.
follow up test work is in progress to gauge David Klingner, head of Exploration, is economic potential.
Copper exploration continued in Turkey, Peru, Chile, Argentina and the southwest US.
2003 operating performance Significant copper mineralisation was Exploration in 2003 focused on advancing encountered in drilling in projects in Turkey, the most promising targets across the Peru and Argentina, which warrant further spectrum of grassroots, generative, drill test follow up drill testing.
stage, and near mine programmes.
Good The Exploration group was active in the results were obtained from a number of search for industrial mineral deposits in locations.
various parts of the world including North and In the US, a resource of greater than South America, Europe and Turkey.
one billion tonnes of about 1.5 per cent The Exploration group continued to copper was outlined at the Resolution project support brownfield work at a number of in Arizona.
The project was turned over to the Rio Tinto operations.
Exploration in the Copper group for further evaluation at the vicinity of the Argyle diamond deposit start of 2003. continued.
In the US and Argentina, active Work continued on the delineation of the programmes were conducted in the orbit of sizeable body of gold mineralisation the Boron and Tincalayu mines.
In Indonesia, discovered at Dashkasan, near Hamadan in exploration in and around the Grasberg mine Iran.
Drilling continued to outline additional led to the addition of further copper reserves.
resource and to increase confidence in Safety performance declined in 2003, existing resources.
Metallurgical test work with 18 injuries compared with 15 in 2002. continued and community and environmental Lost time injuries, however, decreased from baseline studies were initiated.
There were no The potential of the high grade haematite significant environmental or community resources at Simandou in Guinea were incidents during 2003. confirmed at more than one billion tonnes.
A convention was signed with the Government FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE of Guinea, which covers the conditions 2003 compared with 2002 attached to the future possible development Cash expenditure on exploration in 2003 was of the deposit.
Environmental baseline studies US$130 million and the pre tax charge to continued in partnership with Conservation earnings was US$127 million, similar to the International.
An order of magnitude study will corresponding figures for 2002. be completed in 2004.
Closely spaced drilling was undertaken at 2002 compared with 2001 the La Sampala nickel laterite resource in Cash expenditure on exploration in 2002 was Indonesia to test continuity and confirm US$124 million and the pre tax charge to grade.
Metallurgical work and environmental earnings was US$130 million.
and community baseline studies commenced 52 Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements OPERATIONAL REVIEW
