Operating and financial review continued Germany Continuing operations in 2005 and a return on assets of 12% in the medium term, while Total turnover m retaining RMCs position as a leading building materials supplier in 758.3 Germany.
However, the timing of the achievement of these goals will depend on the shape of the price recovery curve and a reduction of 2002: 766.0 the over-capacity in the market.
EBITA excluding exceptional items m In the cement division, capacity will be reduced, subject to the 48.3 agreement of new arrangements for the supply of clinker.
2002: 0.3 In the concrete division, 12 loss-making plants were closed in the last quarter of 2003, and significantly more are under critical review and will be closed or sold if they cannot demonstrate the potential In Germany, the largest construction market in to return to an acceptable level of profitability.
The sensitivity of commercial and employment consultations means that it is difficult Europe, RMC is the market leader in ready mixed to provide more detailed information of cement and concrete concrete, the second biggest aggregates producer capacity reductions at this stage.
A major rationalisation of all other aspects of the business will and the third largest cement manufacturer.
In 2003, a shared service centre was set up Our operations include more than 230 ready mixed concrete plants, and the accounting back-office functions of the businesses are over 50 aggregates quarries and seven cement plants and terminals.
A project to integrate the concrete, aggregates and cement businesses on to a single IT system is almost Results complete.
A central procurement function has been established.
The German economy remained weak in 2003 and construction As part of the rationalisation of the concrete products division, the demand continued to decline.
Performance was severely affected by Dutch subsidiary of the Stelcon Group of companies has been sold.
the fall in cement prices and the impact of weak demand on concrete Of the three remaining factories, one has been sold and two margins.
This was compounded by the impact of the strength of the are in the process of being divested.
The number of employees fell euro on reported results.
by 400, of which 230 were due to the divestment of businesses, including Stelcon, the remainder arising from job reductions.
Excluding the discontinued activities of YTONG, turnover of 758.3 million was 7.7 million lower and EBITA fell by 48.0 million Projects to be implemented include: rationalisation of the regional to a loss of 48.3 million, of which 4.3 million was attributable to structure of the concrete division: reorganisation of the service the strength of the euro.
functions of the cement business: amalgamation of the concrete product companies in the south west of Germany: and the The fall in EBITA was principally attributable to the cement division, streamlining of central functions.
where the domestic price for cement fell by a third from 45 to 30 per tonne, having been around 60 two years ago.
The volume of Outlook cement sales rose by 8%, reflecting a full year of in-house sourcing to Our performance in Germany will recover in 2004 and we are the concrete division.
Weak demand for ready mixed concrete meant targeting a return to profitability in 2005.
The economy remains that concrete margins fell.
In August, RMC notified customers of its weak and construction demand is expected to continue to decline.
intention to raise cement and concrete prices.
However, as expected, RMC has raised its cement and concrete prices.
For these increases the impact during the last four months of the year was very limited.
to be sustainable, in the medium term, the supply demand balance Aggregates volumes were similar to 2002 and prices were stable.
Business developments Financial performance will benefit from the restructuring of the As previously outlined, plans for the restructuring of the business business, aimed at reducing costs and eliminating loss-making plants.
The restructuring plans are targeted at substantially reducing the losses in 2004, a return to profitability 16 RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Consolidating our position as a world-leading producer of aggregates.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 17
