We aim to increase the Groups return on net operating assets Aims and principles to 12% over the medium term.
RMC aims to be a leading heavy building materials group, The extraction and processing of raw materials is a major part of admired as a company with high standards of performance our business and we accept the responsibility this places on us to and integrity, committed to delivering sustained profit ensure that, wherever we operate, this work is carried out in an growth and shareholder returns, and for which employees environmentally sound manner and in a way that is consistent with are proud to work.
the goal of environmentally sustainable development.
Our principal strategic target is to increase the Groups return on We are committed to equality of opportunity and treatment and strive net operating assets to 12% over the medium term.
to provide rewarding careers, with the appropriate skills development, for all employees.
Our employees are expected to uphold not merely We aim to develop our market position across an integrated product the letter but the spirit of the law.
Breaches of the law are not justified portfolio in ready mixed concrete, aggregates and cement, together by the pursuit of profit.
with other related building materials where appropriate, in local and regional markets where market structure and competitive intensity We are aware of our responsibility to the wider community in the can be used to generate attractive returns throughout the many countries in which we operate.
It is Group policy to deal with construction cycle.
We will develop our portfolio of both mature all our stakeholders customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers market presence and participation in developing markets such that and neighbours fairly and responsibly.
These business principles we grow earnings both by organic means and value-added bolt-on are contained in a set of values, endorsed by the Board and acquisitions.
communicated throughout the Group, which guide the day-to-day actions of every employee.
Business principles In order to build on our position as one of the worlds leaders in the Our approach to corporate responsibility as an integral part of business supply of construction materials, we set the highest standards of practice is described in greater detail on pages 27 to 29. product quality and delivery, wherever possible capitalising on the opportunities presented by new technologies to improve efficiency.
We aim to develop and sustain long-term relationships with our customers by providing the quality products and services they need at competitive prices.
We strive for long-term relationships with our customers by providing quality products and services at competitive prices.
Quality delivery in the Bay High standards of product quality and delivery are key components of a multi-million dollar project involving our Californian subsidiary RMC Pacific Materials.
Needing to supply 200,000 cubic metres of concrete for the construction of part of the new Oakland Bay Bridge in San Francisco, the company custom designed three delivery barges, equipping each with two mixer drums, conveyors and pumps.
Each barge makes up to eight trips a day to the construction site, manoeuvred by tugboats.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 25
