Operating and financial review continued Great Britain Continuing operations Total turnover m 1,061.3 2002: 1,037.2 EBITA excluding exceptional items m 68.0 2002: 67.7 RMC is the market leader in ready mixed concrete in Great Britain and the third largest aggregates and cement producer.
We have more than 300 ready mixed concrete plants, over 130 quarries, four cement plants, seven terminals and more than 170 other operating units ranging from asphalt, mortar and recycling plants to concrete and specialist products factories.
We also operate a fleet of seven dredgers through our marine aggregates business, RMC Marine.
Following extensive planning and preparation work, the readymix and aggregates divisions were combined into a new unified business, RMC Materials, on 1 January 2004.
The restructuring has seen 21 operating companies replaced by five regions and has already resulted in a reduction of 321 employees in 2003.
A further reduction of around Terminal unlocks mortar market 220 employees is planned to occur during 2004.
This restructuring We opened a new rail terminal at Bletchley giving us access to the Home Counties was made possible by the transfer of back-office functions of the segment of the rapidly growing dry silo mortar market.
The terminal handles dry readymix and aggregates divisions to a new shared service centre mortar from our factory at Dove Holes in Derbyshire.
SSC in Stockton-on-Tees, in the first half of 2003.
The transfer of the building products division to the SSC is progressing well.
Over the next two years, the restructuring of the business, supported by the work of the SSC, is expected to achieve increased business The Rugby cement plant efficiencies leading to a further growth in profitability.
delivered consistently Results As expected, market conditions in 2003 remained broadly unchanged improved levels of production.
from 2002, although there were signs in the second half of the year that the flow of publicly-funded work was slowing.
Excluding the discontinued activities of Hales and Durox, turnover of 1,061.3 million was 24.1 million higher than in 2002.
EBITA rose by 0.3 million to 68.0 million, despite the property division profits being 3.0 million lower at 7.9 million and an additional pension charge of 5.0 million see page 15.
14 RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Wembley winners Teamwork was the key as three RMC divisions readymix, aggregates and cement combined for an 18-hour non-stop concrete pour to supply the foundations for the new Wembley stadium arch in north London.
The 4,500 cubic metres supplied would have covered five football pitches in 15 cm of concrete.
The huge operation earned RMC The Concrete Centre Ready Mixed Concrete Award for 2003.
In 2003, the Rugby cement plant delivered consistently improved Production capacity at the new Somercotes rail bearers factory, levels of production, after replacement of the kilns burners and other which became fully operational in the summer of 2003, has recently modifications and upgrades implemented during the annual shutdown been doubled in response to the high level of demand from in January and there is scope for further improvement in 2004.
allowed sales of own production progressively to displace sales of During 2003, as part of a programme to improve the geographic externally sourced cement.
As a result, in a flat market the cement coverage of the asphalt business, a new plant was opened in divisions profitability rose by 14.0 million.
A plant is also being built in Collessie in Scotland and two further new plants are currently planned during 2004.
Aggregates sales fell slightly, in line with market conditions, but A new 9.0 million state-of-the-art concrete block and concrete margins improved, resulting in increased profitability, with a strong block paving factory was opened at Northfleet in Kent.
Sales and prices of the readymix division were The actuarial review of the UK defined benefit pension funds under pressure, particularly in the South East of England where RMC has been completed, assessing that the funds had a deficit of has a strong market presence.
Demand fell sharply and profits were 43.0 million at 31 March 2003.
As a result of the review, the lower.
However, during the second half of the year the divisions pension charge to the profit and loss account was increased by market share stabilised and the forward order book was considerably 5.0 million in 2003 and will increase by a further 3.0 million strengthened.
In addition, in light of the deficit, the Group has decided to make additional contributions to the funds of 5.0 million In the building products division, rail-related activity has remained per annum.
Outlook Taken together, profits in the aggregates, readymix and building For 2004, although the economy is forecast to pick up, construction products divisions fell by 9.0 million.
sector demand is expected to be similar to 2003, with the possibility of some softening as a result of a slowdown in the flow of publiclyBusiness developments funded work, and we anticipate no more than a moderate increase in Work has begun on a major programme to replace the plant prices.
For the cement business, from which we expect to see some and machinery at the Halkyn quarry in North Wales, costing further improvement in financial performance, the challenge is to 12.0 million.
This is scheduled to be completed in spring 2005, continue to reduce operating costs against a background of rising and will increase plant production capacity by 40% and significantly energy prices.
At RMC Materials the combined concrete and extend the life of the quarry.
aggregates business, we will start to see benefits resulting from the Production capacity of the dry mortar factory at Dove Holes in amalgamation of the businesses.
However, following the actuarial Derbyshire is being increased by 50%.
A new rail terminal to handle review of the UK pension funds, pension costs will, as previously dry mortar from the Dove Holes factory, which was commissioned indicated, increase see above.
in the last quarter of 2002, was opened at Bletchley, near Milton Keynes.
It was partly funded by a Strategic Rail Authority grant and gives us access to the Home Counties segment of the rapidly growing dry silo mortar market.
The Sand Falcon, one of RMCs fleet of seven dredgers, has had its capacity increased by 25% in an operation costing 6.0 million that lengthened the vessel by 21 metres.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 15
