Operating and financial review continued Rest of Europe Continuing operations The Group also operates seven cement plants and a network of Total turnover m 23 cement terminals which handle seaborne imports and exports of 1,362.4 supplies, co-ordinated by our international cement trading function based in Great Britain.
In total we employ more than 8,000 people 2002: 1,212.4 in our businesses in the Rest of Europe.
EBITA excluding exceptional items m RMC is the market leader in ready mixed concrete in Spain, Europes 106.9 largest concrete and cement market.
We are also continuing to build 2002: 92.3 strong market positions in a number of other countries, including Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, which join the European Union this year.
Our operations in the Rest of Europe span We are confident that our businesses in these countries are well prepared 14 countries from Ireland in the west to Latvia for EU membership and the competitive challenges arising from in the east, and from Spain in the south to accession.
Our operations have been audited to ensure they comply with the appropriate EU standards governing production, the environment Scandinavia in the north.
These operations and health and safety.
The businesses are well placed to benefit from represent a broad range of heavy building new market opportunities flowing in due course from EU enlargement, materials assets and include 600 ready mixed in particular much needed infrastructure development work.
concrete plants and over 140 aggregates quarries.
Results Performance improved in a number of countries, notably Croatia, Austria and the Czech Republic, with record profitability in Spain, and the whole of Europe benefited from very favourable weather during the latter part of the year.
Excluding the discontinued activities of YTONG, Belgium and the Netherlands, turnover rose by 150.0 million to 1,362.4 million and EBITA rose by 14.6 million to 106.9 million.
Profit from property disposals fell by 3.1 million but this was more than offset by the strength of the euro, which increased profit by 8.3 million.
In western Europe, construction demand remained strong in Spain and, although margins have come under pressure in some parts of the market, record profits were achieved.
In Ireland, demand increased Our businesses in Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic are well placed to Supplies flow for Polish shrine Construction of the Providence Shrine complex in Warsaw is a high profile project for benefit from EU enlargement.
which RMC Polska, our Polish subsidiary, is supplying more than 40,000 cubic metres of concrete.
The church, in the shape of a Greek cross surmounted by an oval dome, is based on a design concept dating back to the 18th century.
The cornerstone was consecrated by Pope John Paul II.
18 RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Spain delivers record profit Group supplies French tunnels project A strong performance by our subsidiary Readymix Asland produced record profits in RMC France is supplying concrete for one of Europes largest underground Spain.
The company played a major part in a large-scale expansion of the port of construction projects.
Twin road tunnels being built to the west of Paris will link three Sagunto in Valencia, supplying more than 1.6 million tonnes of aggregates for the major roads.
The first section of tunnel is due to open in 2007. project from its quarries at Glazpizas in Valencia and Salto del Caballo in Castelln.
but competitive pressures meant that underlying profit excluding exchange rate impact was similar to 2002.
In Austria, demand Reorganising the business in remained depressed, but performance benefited from a reorganisation of the business.
In France, weaker demand meant that underlying Austria helped deliver improved profit fell from the record level seen in 2002, although recent construction data has been more encouraging.
Construction activity continued to grow strongly in Croatia and the business benefited from a competitors plant having an extended shutdown, resulting in significantly higher profits.
In the Czech Republic, profit improved as a result of higher sales and margins in A reorganisation of our business in Poland resulted in a 7% the concrete business, and the contribution from the cement grinding reduction in employee numbers and the outsourcing of some plant that came into operation in 2002. activities.
The Chelm cement plant and the cement grinding plant at Gdynia were successfully recommissioned after modernisation Business developments work undertaken during the previous winter.
In Croatia, all three cement kilns have now been converted from oil to coal burning.
Outlook In Ireland, early in 2004 Readymix plc purchased Hillstreet Stone For 2004, overall performance is expected to be similar to 2003.
Limited, a company that supplies aggregates products to the midlands and western regions in the Republic of Ireland, and Austria is expected to continue to benefit from cost reductions arising Precast Products Limited, a company that supplies the Irish and from the reorganisation of the business.
Demand in France is UK markets.
In 2003, Readymix plc consolidated its position in expected to be similar to the level seen in 2003.
Demand in Spain is the concrete flooring market in the Republic with the purchase expected to remain strong, but margins will continue to come under of the Breton-Roecrete business.
Aggregates sales will be temporarily Our Austrian business was reorganised with the readymix, affected by the closure of two quarries and a lag in the replacement aggregates and concrete products divisions being rationalised.
In Spain, the number of mobile ready mixed concrete plants operated by the concrete division has increased from 13 to 22 in the last two years, enabling the business to compete over a wider geographical area for large public sector contracts.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 19
