Operating and financial review continued United States of America Continuing operations Profits in the eastern USA rose by 3.1 million to 21.0 million, the Total turnover m weakness of the dollar reducing EBITA by 2.0 million.
After being 1,139.0 hit by weak demand and extremely wet weather in the first half of the year, the businesses in the Carolinas and Georgia recovered strongly 2002: 1,255.4 in the second half.
In Florida, the business continued to perform well, EBITA excluding exceptional items m with house building particularly strong in the southwest area.
61.4 Profits in the western USA rose by 1.1 million to 40.4 million, 2002: 57.2 the weakness of the dollar reducing EBITA by 3.6 million.
In the southwest, the businesses in Arizona, Nevada, southern New Mexico and El Paso in Texas, performed well, with significant improvements in Arizona and Nevada.
In California, sales volumes were considerably RMC has operations in four regions, with more higher than in 2002, due to a high level of house building in the than 300 operating units and over 6,000 Central Valley and infrastructure work in the Bay area.
We are the countrys largest ready Business developments mixed concrete producer, with more than In the Carolinas and Georgia, the amalgamation of the three 210 plants.
Our aggregates business operates business units is under way and a shared service centre is being set 32 quarries and we have more than 50 other up.
In Florida, the amalgamation of two business units has begun.
In the Florida Keys, Pinewood Materials, a small ready mixed operating units including a cement plant and concrete company, was acquired in November.
In southern Arizona, two import terminals, and concrete block, pipe, Padilla Sand and Gravel, a small aggregates and ready mixed paver, precast and asphalt operations.
concrete business, was acquired in December.
In Florida, capacity of the Brandon and Naples block plants has The business is structured in four geographical regions: Florida: been increased and work has started on building a new block Mid-Atlantic region, comprising operations in the Carolinas and plant that will supply the Port Charlotte market.
Opening of the Georgia: Southwest region, with operations in Texas, New Mexico, Bronson sand mine provides a long-term supply source for the Arizona and Nevada: and Pacific region, operating in California.
During the course of the year, 10 new ready mixed concrete plants Results were opened, strengthening the businesss position in a number After a disappointing start to the year that was partly weather related, of markets.
performance improved significantly in the second half as the firming of activity levels seen in the summer continued throughout the Outlook autumn, supported by very favourable weather conditions.
Although Recognising that market conditions in the USA differ from region to turnover fell by 116.4 million to 1,139.0 million, EBITA rose by region, overall, the market is expected to improve, with low mortgage 4.2 million to 61.4 million, with the underlying turnover excluding rates supporting the housing sector and an anticipated increase in exchange rate impact and profits of all four regional heavy building commercial work.
However, there is a risk that the historically high materials businesses increasing in 2003. house building rate will not be sustained and that an increase in mortgage rates may reduce demand in the second half of the year.
The significant weakening of the US dollar in 2003 reduced EBITA A further reduction in overhead costs is expected to support by 5.6 million.
profitability as the year progresses.
Market conditions generally improved in 2003 with the continued strength of the housing sector and some localised recovery in the commercial market as businesses began to increase capital spending.
Sales volumes of aggregates, cement and concrete were significantly higher than in 2002 and margins were generally stable.
The business also benefited from cost reduction initiatives implemented in the first half of the year.
20 RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 550million sales of concrete products supported by new investment and a pipeline of product innovation.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 21
