Directors report The Directors present their annual report together with the audited accounts of the Company and of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2003.
You will find appended to the Circular, enclosed with this Ordinary share capital of the Company at 3 March 2004 and disapply Report and Accounts, the Notice of the Annual General pre-emption rights in respect of the allotment of shares up to an Meeting of RMC Group p. l. c. for 2004 which will be held at the aggregate nominal amount of 3,327,032 representing 5% of the InterContinental Hotel, One Hamilton Place, Hyde Park Corner, issued Ordinary share capital of the Company at 3 March 2004.
London W1J 7QY at 11.30 am on Thursday 29 April 2004.
The authority to allot shares will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2005.
The Directors have no intention of Results and dividends exercising this authority at present.
The loss for the year attributable to shareholders was 156.1 million after exceptional items 2002: profit 70.3 million.
After dividends An Ordinary Resolution to authorise the Directors to allot shares in costing 82.6 million 2002: 82.6 million the retained loss for the pursuance of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 and a Special year was 238.7 million 2002: 12.3 million.
Resolution for the general disapplication of pre-emption rights are set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting in the Circular The Directors have recommended a final dividend for the year of enclosed with this Report and Accounts.
21.8p per share 2002: 21.8p per share payable on 1 June 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 30 April 2004.
Authority to purchase shares The total dividend for the year, including the interim dividend of 9.4p The shareholders approval is again sought for the Company to make per share 2002: 9.4p per share, will be 31.2p per share 2002: 31.2p market purchases of its own shares, up to a maximum of 10% of the per share.
issued Ordinary share capital and within certain prescribed price limits.
Your Board intends to make purchases of the Companys shares only Group activities and review of operations if it considers such purchases will result in an increase in earnings per The Group is engaged principally in the production and supply of share and are considered to be in the best interests of shareholders materials for use in the construction industry.
To the extent that any repurchased shares are held in undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings together treasury, earnings per share would only be increased until such time with a description of their activities, are set out on pages 83 and 84. as the shares are resold or transferred out of treasury.
Although at A review of the current state of the Groups affairs and its future present the Directors have no plans to buy back shares, they consider prospects is given in the Chairmans statement on pages 4 to 7, it prudent to be able to act if circumstances warrant.
A Special in the Chief Executives review on pages 8 and 9 and in the Operating Resolution authorising the Company to purchase its own shares is and financial review on pages 10 to 29. set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting in the Circular enclosed with this Report and Accounts.
At 3 March 2004, the Fixed assets Company has an unexpired authority to repurchase shares up to The Directors are of the opinion that the value of land and buildings is a maximum of 26,514,514 Ordinary shares.
significantly greater than the amounts included in the Group Balance sheet at 31 December 2003, however it is not practicable to value The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares freehold land on an annual basis.
Regulations 2003 the Regulations allow companies to hold such shares acquired by way of market purchase in treasury, rather than Acquisitions and disposals having to cancel them.
The Regulations came into effect on Details of the principal acquisitions and disposals made during 2003 1 December 2003 and the Company can consider holding any of its are shown in Note 30 to the Accounts on pages 80 and 81. own shares that it purchases pursuant to the authority as treasury stock.
This will give the Company the ability to sell or otherwise Authority to allot shares transfer treasury shares quickly and cost-effectively and could provide The shareholders approval is again sought for the renewal of the the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its authority of the Directors to allot Ordinary shares in the Company for capital base.
No dividends will be paid on shares whilst held in cash and also to allot shares without first offering shares pro rata to Treasury and no voting rights will attach to treasury shares.
The number of shares which may be allotted in are to be repurchased, authorisation is also sought to use such shares these circumstances accords with the limitations currently acceptable for the purposes of the Companys employee share schemes.
If such to institutional shareholders.
shares are used, the Company will, so long as required under the guidelines of the Association of British Insurers Investment Committee, The Directors would be able to allot shares up to an aggregate count them towards the limits in the schemes on the number of new nominal amount of 22,177,997 representing one-third of the issued shares which may be issued under them.
32 RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Authority for certain donations and expenditure including consultation committees, helplines and newsletters.
The The shareholders approval is sought for a Resolution in connection Group has in place a voluntary European Consultative Committee with the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 the through which central management informs and consults employee Act.
The Act, which came into effect during 2001, requires all UK representatives from subsidiary companies in the European Union.
companies to seek shareholder approval before incurring expenditure Employees regularly receive information about the financial progress of above 5,000 which might under the legislation be interpreted and position of the Group by means of employee journals, internet as EU political expenditure or as a donation to an EU political sites and reports on the Groups financial results and its pension organisation.
Whilst we will not make any donations to political funds.
The Company maintains share option schemes for the benefit parties, the Act is very broadly drafted and may capture activities of eligible employees based in the UK and overseas.
Under these such as funding seminars and other functions to which politicians schemes, employees with requisite service are periodically given an are invited.
The penalties for breaching the legislation are severe and, opportunity to acquire shares in the Company on favourable terms.
therefore, the Directors have decided that it would be prudent to This benefit is made available to UK-based employees under the seek shareholders authority for political donations and expenditure, Savings Related Share Option Scheme and Share Ownership Plan in case any of our normal activities are caught by the legislation.
and to certain overseas employees under the International Details of the amount of donations made in Great Britain for Saving-for-Shares Plan and the US Saving-for-Shares Plan.
charitable and educational purposes during the year to 31 December 2003 are contained in the Operating and financial review on page 29.
The Groups policy is to provide equal opportunities to all the existing employees and anyone seeking to join.
Employment opportunities Research and development are available to disabled persons in accordance with their abilities and The Group continues to pursue an active programme of technical aptitudes on equal terms with other employees and every effort is innovation, particularly in the field of cement, concrete and road made to enable them to continue employment, with re-training for surfacing technology, and operates central laboratories primarily for alternative work where necessary.
Special attention is given to the the benefit of Group companies.
Costs incurred are integral to quality deployment of employees who become disabled in service.
control and product support and are therefore not in the nature of pure research and development.
Payments to suppliers The Group has its own policy to settle the terms of payment with its Board of Directors suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, ensuring that Short biographical details of the present Directors of the Company those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and that the are given on pages 30 and 31.
They were all members of the Board Group abides by the terms of payment.
The average days credit taken throughout the financial year with the exception of David Munro and by the Group was 43 2002: 43.
The Parent company does not have Adrian Auer.
Adrian Auer was appointed as an executive Director on any trade creditors.
14 January 2003 and David Munro was appointed as Group Chief Executive on 19 January 2004.
In addition, Stuart Walker was a Health and safety Director until he retired on 28 January 2004.
David Munro was Information on health and safety is contained in the Operating appointed as a Director since the last Annual General Meeting and and financial review on pages 10 to 29. will retire from the Board at the 2004 Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer himself for election.
The Directors retiring by Share capital rotation at the 2004 Annual General Meeting are Bill Alexander Details of changes in the share capital of the Company and the and Alastair Robinson and, being eligible, offer themselves for number of Ordinary shares reserved for issue at the year end are set re-election.
Alastair Robinson, who was elected a Director in January out in Note 22 to the Accounts on page 74.
According to the Register 1996, will offer himself for re-election for one year and retire at the of Substantial Interests maintained in compliance with Section 211 of 2005 AGM.
David Munro has a service contract with the Company, the Companies Act 1985, the Company has received notifications in details of which are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 38 respect of the following interests at the date of this Report: to 44.
Bill Alexander and Alastair Robinson are non-executive Directors and therefore do not have service contracts.
Legal & General Investment Management: number of Ordinary shares: 10,389,864: 3.9% of issued share capital: Directors interests Aegon Asset management UK plc: number of Ordinary shares: There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year 7,977,555: 3.01% of issued share capital: either with the Company or with any of its subsidiaries in which any American Express Company and its group: number of Ordinary Director was or is materially interested.
The executive Directors are shares: 29,166,878: 10.96% of issued share capital.
entitled to participate in the Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP.
Awards under the LTIP can be satisfied by the issue of new shares or Auditors by shares provided by the RMC Employee Share Ownership Trust the The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their Trust.
Each of the executive Directors therefore has a technical interest willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they be in the 442,631 Ordinary shares held by the Trust.
The details regarding appointed will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
the operation of the LTIP and the Directors other interests in shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 38 to 44.
On behalf of the Board Employment policies The Group continues to recognise the importance of its employees and places considerable emphasis on involving them in the business by Michael Hampson regular and effective communication with them.
Group companies Secretary have established local systems of information and consultation, 3 March 2004 RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 33
