Operating and financial r Operating and financial review eview continued continued Rest of the World Continuing operations Results Total turnover m Performance in the Rest of the World was driven by improved 196.4 profitability in the Gulf States and Israel.
EBITA increased by EBITA excluding exceptional items m 4.7 million to 6.3 million, exchange rate movements reducing profit by 0.6 million.
6.3 2002: 1.6 In the Gulf States, profits rose significantly in response to improved market conditions in the region and high demand in Dubai.
In Israel, profits increased, benefiting from the cost reduction and efficiency programmes that began in 2002.
In December, RMC sold 39.9% of the issued share capital of Adelaide Brighton Limited ABL Business developments to Boral Ltd and other parties, leaving RMC with In Dubai, the Group won its largest ever ready mixed concrete order to supply around 2.4 million cubic metres for the new airport 80.9 million shares 14.9%.
Boral is now waiting for satisfaction of a number of conditions to its offer for ABL, including competition clearance and shareholder approval.
The bid has been recommended by the independent directors of ABL at a conditional offer price of A$1.60 per share.
The disposal of the ABL shares is in line with the Groups strategy to focus on key geographical business areas.
The above figures exclude the contribution to the Groups results from Australia which, following the disposal of shares in ABL, is now classified as a discontinued operation.
In 2003, EBITA from ABL was 48.7 million 2002: 34.5 million.
Our remaining operations in the Rest of the World include businesses in Israel, where we hold leading market positions in ready mixed concrete and aggregates, the United Arab Emirates and Malaysia.
Record concrete order In total we operate more than 100 ready mixed concrete plants and RMC has begun work on its biggest ever ready mixed concrete order 2.4 million over 20 aggregates quarries in these countries.
We also own a ready cubic metres for the new airport extension in Dubai.
mixed concrete business in Argentina and a lime operation in Jamaica.
Outlook The key challenges for the Group during 2004 are to implement the the market is expected to improve as the economy picks up.
cost reduction programme and German restructuring as planned, and In Germany, there are encouraging signs that cement prices are to deliver the associated improvements in profitability.
Except in the recovering, but the timing and level of this price recovery remain key markets of the USA and Germany, overall trading conditions in somewhat uncertain.
With the health of the Groups balance sheet our businesses in 2004 are expected to be broadly similar to 2003, restored, RMC is well positioned to invest selectively to strengthen its with the possibility of some softening in Great Britain.
In the USA, core businesses to secure future earnings growth.
22 RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003
