Our business This Operating and financial review, which we are including as vessels in British coastal waters, the Company supplies customers in part of the Annual Report and Accounts for the first time, the UK and mainland Europe as well as our own operations.
provides a broader perspective of our business to enable a more informed judgment to be made of the Groups financial Reclaimed recycled alternative aggregates performance and prospects.
It includes sections which As a business committed to the goal of sustainability, our companies previously formed part of the Group Chief Executives and are involved increasingly in the supply of recycled and secondary Finance Directors reviews, as well as new material.
The Annual materials such as crushed glass, construction and demolition waste Report therefore has a new content structure which we hope and recycled asphalt and road planings, as an alternative to sand, will make information more accessible.
RMC Group is a leading international producer and supplier of materials, The Group is one of the worlds leading producers of lightweight products and services used primarily in the construction industry.
aggregates, marketed under the Lytag trade name.
The product is made from pulverised fuel ash, a waste product of coal-fired power The Group is substantial in its commercial size and geographical stations, and is used as a replacement for denser traditional spread.
With more than 2,200 operating units in 22 countries, we aggregates.
We also process and market ground-granulated blast employ over 29,000 people.
The Group has grown organically and furnace slag, a by-product of the steel industry, as a cement through acquisition to become, by annual turnover, the worlds fourth replacement material.
RMC is the worlds largest supplier of ready mixed concrete, while in aggregates, we are Europes number Cement one producer, and number six in the world, and in cement, we are Cement a mixture of clay and limestone, burnt in a kiln is a one of Europes top six producers and a significant player in the world basic building material.
We operate cement plants in Great Britain, market.
In our main geographical areas of Great Britain and Ireland, Germany, Croatia, Poland, Latvia, the Czech Republic and the USA, western Europe and the USA, we occupy leading market positions in with a total annual output of more than 12 million tonnes.
We are also continuing to build a strong market our own network of more than 30 cement terminals, we have an presence in a number of other countries which will benefit from international cement trading operation which co-ordinates seaborne accession to the European Union this year.
exports and imports of supplies at competitive rates.
Products Concrete products Ready mixed concrete RMC manufactures a range of precast and prestressed concrete One of the worlds staple building materials, ready mixed concrete products in seven countries for the construction, domestic, transport was first produced by RMC in the UK in the early 1930s.
Produced and agricultural markets, exploiting the advantages of concrete as a in quantity at purpose-built batching plants, and delivered to versatile and cost-effective construction material.
Our products include construction sites by truckmixer, it replaced the laborious process of railway sleepers, paving, landscaping blocks and bricks, kerbs, pipes mixing cement, aggregates and water manually on site.
The Group and flooring systems.
produces more than 50 million cubic metres of ready mixed concrete each year from a total of over 1,400 plants in 18 countries.
RMC is Other products one of the leaders in the development of concrete technology, and RMCs other products include: we also offer comprehensive technical support services based on years Admixtures materials added to concrete to modify its fresh of practical experience.
or hardened properties: Asphalt coated stone for road and commercial surfacing, which Aggregates is a market of growing importance for the Group: Aggregates are a principal source of building materials and include Lime for supply to the iron, steel, alumina, chemical and mining sand, gravel and various grades of crushed stone and rock such as industries and to the construction, agricultural and environmental granite, limestone and sandstone, found on land or on the seabed.
protection sectors: and We produce aggregates from around 400 quarries and sand and gravel Mortars comprising cement, water, fine aggregates and possibly pits, some of them among the worlds largest, to meet the continuing lime for bricklaying, blockwork, rendering and plastering.
We also run one of Europes leading dredged marine aggregates businesses.
Operating a fleet of RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 11
